ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic558x.u1	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mr Prévot's 55017948C and Mr 55017949C were postponed at his request.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic558x.u2	Madam President, I suppose I can ask both my questions right away. Minister, the law of 10 May 2015, amended in 2019, requires that a royal decision be taken within two years to introduce a quota for doctors and dentists who have completed training at a foreign university. This should be done after advice from the Planning Committee, so that the total number of doctors and dentists who are granted access to these special professional qualifications every year after obtaining a diploma abroad can be determined. What is the opinion of the Planning Committee on the quota to be used for doctors who obtained their degree abroad and who apply for a RIZIV number in Belgium? Will you follow the advice of the Planning Committee? Can you give this advice to Parliament? At the time when I tabled this question, the deadline had almost expired, and in the meantime some time has passed. When will you fix the royal decision to introduce the quota for these doctors? It is not only doctors who obtained a diploma abroad who apply for a RIZIV number. Last week the entrance exams for starting the study were taken. The Minister for Higher Education stated in the committee responsible in the French Parliament that 6,200 candidates were registered for the first test this year, while there were about 4,000 candidates last year. The reason for this is a significant increase in the number of candidates who do not live in Belgium. They come mainly from France, where access to medical studies is severely restricted, unlike in Wallonia.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic558x.u3	This is in line with my second question on medical quotas in general. I have also submitted this question some time ago and, in view of the history of this dossier, it needs little explanation. Mr Minister, in a forthcoming royal decree will you again include an exemption from quotas for specializations with deficits? In the French Community, 896 qualified doctors are expected for 2021, in Flanders 818. In this way, the historical distortion will become even greater. How are you gonna do that? Flanders has a surplus of at least 1,040 RIZIV numbers while French-speaking Belgium has no surplus, on the contrary. Aren't you going to assign RIZIV numbers to all the doctors who graduate this year? I have another question. How will you enforce that a filter is finally installed on the Walloon side of the entrance exams? How will you react if more than 505 students in the French Community start their doctor's training? My main question concerns the response mechanism for those who do not respect quotas, which was promised in your coalition agreement. What exactly will this mechanism entail? When will this be done? Will that be introduced at the start of the next academic year, or should we wait for it even longer?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic558x.u4	"Mr. Minister, the health crisis has highlighted the flaws in our health system and, more specifically, the need to address the shortage of doctors and to upgrade the medical professions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic558x.u5	•What is the status of negotiations with the Communities? Are there concerted field actors (doctors and medical students)?"
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic558x.u6	Minister, this is an important matter and I asked you about it a few weeks ago in plenary. With regard to the agreement reached at first reading in June, there were two draft royal decrees: one to determine the student quota for the year 2027 for those starting in September and one for the number of additional candidates who end the year 2021 having started their studies in 2015. The agreement seemed particularly vague in the Council of Ministers, and that is the least we can say! You then replied to me in plenary session that you were negotiating with the Communities (I quote). So I'd like to know what's going on a few weeks later. What is the outcome of these negotiations? What are these discussions about? Is there a schedule? Is this finalized? Furthermore, will health actors be associated logically since there are a whole series of major elements in relation to shortages of specializations, demographic reality, the number of doctors and dentists in the pension system? Following the news and the fact that I was at the origin of the law passed in 2019, relating to the application of a quota for doctors and dentists trained abroad and in Europe in particular (non-belges), because it is unthinkable to strictly restrict our young Belgian doctors and dentists when INAMI numbers are totally free to be assigned to non-belges European doctors and dentists. What is the status of this component? In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to point out how fundamental it is to be based on objective data outside of any caricatural debate and on the needs of public health on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic558x.u7	Minister, you will understand that I have a different approach than Mr Fonck. I have a lot of respect for her, but in this file, our spirits collide. The so-called science-based story of the Planning Committee is far more caricature than the debate on it. You are beginning to have a tendency to hide behind it, when you have known the file for a long time and know that it is high time to get rid of it. I won't repeat the details. You know our position. The question is how you will deal with this dossier in the long term. You have tried to take the KB's through in a devious manner. The Flemish Government is less happy about this than you had hoped, so I am very curious about how the talks are going. How will you finally enforce that filter on the French-speaking side? How many RIZIV numbers will you distribute to the French-speaking side? Your answer should be 505, but I was whispered that you have other plans. However, I would remind you that the agreement of the Swedish coalition that I myself negotiated was already a serious compromise in which half of the actual surplus on the French-speaking side was swallowed and allowed for a very long period of payment. If you still interfere with this agreement, you will just laugh at the Flemish students in the face. I hope this is not the intention. I am pleased that Mr Farih is present so that there is a CD&Ver for this dossier. However, the Christian Democrats are no longer intervening in this matter. CD&V was particularly proud of the word "respondibility mechanism" that had been included with great difficulty in the coalition agreement. Then I laughed very much because Vivaldi doesn't really need CD&V. That is again proven in this file. Apart from reading that word in the coalition agreement, I have not yet noticed anything in this dossier about the response mechanism. On the contrary, 6,000 participants are now admitted to the entrance examinations and there is still no numerus fixus. Last time, more than the double number of candidates was started, even though there was already a clear agreement at that time. Your predecessor, Mrs De Block, worked with this file in the same way as you did today, which amounts to an annual amnesty without a stick behind the door. Minister, how will you deal with this issue in concrete terms without abusing the Planning Committee which is really not scientific, so that we can finally close it after 20 years of discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic558x.u8	Mr President, I will make three points in my reply: firstly, a state of affairs; secondly, the opinions of the Planning Committee; and thirdly, my position on how we should look at the dossier. First of all, where are we? The Council of Ministers approved at first reading two draft royal decrees on the medical offer. The first concerns the quotas of doctors 2027 and the second concerns the additional candidates 2020-2021. In order to put it plastically, this should provide an answer to the question of what we are doing with the transfers both on the Flemish and French-speaking sides. Those drafts were sent to the Council of State and in the meantime the opinion has been delivered. This means that we can make final decisions on these two drafts. I have also been instructed by the Council of Ministers to consult with the Communities. That consultation is ongoing and I therefore do not want to anticipate its results. I hope you understand. Specifically, KB's first draft lays down in practice the quota of doctors for 2027 on the Flemish side on 977 and on the French side 505. Those figures are the result of needs estimates and corrections due to overruns in the past I do not go into the detail. The second draft stipulates that the transfers in Flanders will be accepted, just like the transfers in French-speaking Belgium, which are more important. One aspect of the negotiations I have with the Communities is that, in accordance with the opinion of the Planning Committee, any transfers should be directed towards bottleneck specialists such as general practitioners, geriatrics and pediatricians, for which there is a shortage, while the need is great. I am happy to give you my input, my vision for the debate. I believe that the perspective of the debate should be the quality of training, the professions and the care. Firstly, quality training indeed presupposes that the courses, courses, auditoriums, labs, are under pressure from a far too large number of students, which one does not need in the end. For the sake of the quality of training, a limitation of influx is already useful in itself. That is a first point of departure. It is about the quality of training. I believe that this is also experienced, both in Flanders and in French-speaking Belgium. We cannot allow thousands of young people to start such training, because that puts enormous pressure on the quality of training if we know that there is no real demand for it in society. Secondly, it concerns the quality of the profession. Two extremes must be avoided. One extreme is that one has an oversupply of care providers, so that the care providers in the profession cannot actually do their job properly, because they cannot valorise what they have learned. We have experienced this in the past with the physiotherapists. We have experienced periods of heavy oversupply and it is seen that the profession is then actually under enormous pressure and that it is difficult for those concerned to carry it out properly. There will then be a great deal of competition among themselves because of the oversupply in relation to the need. I refer to what we experienced 20 years ago with the physiotherapists. That is not a reproach to the individual physiotherapists; that is simply a structural situation, which is better avoided. The other extreme is that there is a shortage. Then, of course, the people who have to exercise the profession are also under enormous pressure. I believe that we have experienced a real revolution in this area over the past 30 years, because the ideas of how one combines work and life, work and family responsibility, work and further training have evolved. We no longer live in a world where we find it normal for a doctor to work 80 hours a week. It used to be. That was considered normal. A long time ago that was even seen as part of the quality, namely that such a doctor gained a great deal of experience and learned a lot from his experience. That's not how we look at medicine today. So when we talk about the planning of the offer, we really have to bear in mind that there is a different view of the number of hours of work normally found when it comes to combining work with family life, personal life and continuing training. That has evolved very strongly. This means that we have to look a little differently at the supply that is needed in terms of number of healthcare providers. Too much is not good, but too little is not good either. After all, it is about the quality of care. There is no denying that there is scarcity here and there. One of the problems in psychiatry, especially child and youth psychiatry, is that there are not enough children's and youth psychiatrists. This is, of course, also due to the fact that this is not the most lucrative specialism. We must do something about this. Anyway, that's not good. The same applies to general practitioners in a number of regions and sub-regions. There's just too little offer of GPs. Too much is not good, too little is not good. One has to find the right center. For me, there is only one motto, namely quality. That is not a Community fight against one another, that is a joint commitment to quality, as far as I am concerned. I also read advice from the Planning Committee to that effect. I think they're valuable. I disagree with you in that regard, Mrs Van Peel. I think you're going through a lot of dirty work there, if you don't mind me saying so, and you're using a lot of crooked expressions. I don't know if you really mean it when you say it's not scientific at all. Are you and I so much more scientific than the Planning Committee? I'm afraid to say that of myself, frankly. I think that the Planning Committee is generally trying to do serious work, and that is in line with the new methodology. I find the opinions of the Planning Committee interesting. I think she gives well-founded figures, but also a number of clear signals. The opinion of the Planning Commission took into account the covid crisis and the impact of possible future pandemics. As a result, members of the Planning Commission decided to respond to the clear indications of shortage from the field, with a view to strengthening primary health care. This is why they recommend increasing the quota of general practitioners within the overall quota, from 362 to 400 in the Flemish community and from 266 to 300 in the French community. Therefore, the Planning Commission advises an overall quota of 1,517 doctors, to be allocated of course. Following the Planning Commission, the quota of 2027 set at 505 is estimated to be too low, given the actual needs. That's what she says. The royal decree, which is ready, stipulates 505. The Planning Commission admits that the figure may be too restrictive while immediately adding that it is possible to discuss it, provided that both communities accept the principle of a competition. That's what she's saying, and I think she's right. The Planning Committee therefore recommends that further consideration be given to the figures. However, it can only be considered if there is a serious control mechanism available, which is a genuine comparative test which controls the influx on both sides, i.e. in both Communities. That's what the Planning Committee indicates. The Planning Committee stresses that doctors operating outside the framework of RIZIV, and therefore not subject to the quota, such as doctors in the management of health data, occupational doctors, insurance doctors or preventive doctors, also play an important role in the field of public health, as we saw during the covid crisis. According to the Planning Committee, training leading to such profiles should not be neglected and also offer a perspective for young people interested in public health and medicine. Such professions should not be neglected by young graduates either. That is also an important signal. The Planning Committee also points out that in 2021 the remaining graduates can be given an internship, so that their situation can be regularised, provided that they are oriented towards bottleneck specialists, such as general practitioners, child psychiatrists, psychiatrists and geriatrics. Fourthly, the Planning Commission devotes all necessary attention to the rigour of its work. In this context, it urged not to develop any legislation involving interference, such as the Royal Decree of 6 August 2020, which excluded six disciplines from the overall quota. For my part, I will not do so, because it amounts to setting up a very nebulous and unmanageable situation. In addition, the Planning Commission has updated and refined its methodology to take account of the mobility and inactivity of physicians within INAMI. These are, among other things, foreign students who are trained in Belgium, but who then go back to practice as doctors. From quota 2022 onwards, this aspect will be incorporated into the new methods of the Planning Commission - which was not the case before, hence the Commission's request for adjustment. In my view, there is something to drink and eat in this opinion of the Planning Commission. That's not our Bible. Some members may be sceptical about this plea for quota increases in 2027. Others will not be in favour of an opinion calling for a restriction of access to studies in both Communities. These two sensible recommendations appear in this body's opinion, but that does not make them our bible. My duty is to negotiate these issues with the Communities and to come to the Council of Ministers in the hope of reaching an agreement and a solution. That is all I will say, because I am still negotiating on that. In any case, I think it is a problem of the quality of care, the quality of jobs and the quality of training. I think we can take the opinion of the Planning Committee seriously. If we follow the opinion of the Planning Committee, then a number of things need to be moved, both in terms of the figures and in terms of the introduction of a competition. Mrs van Peel referred to an operative part which was worked out in the previous legislature but never implemented. In particular, it concerned a response mechanism at the federal level. That is also a possibility, but it is actually a matter better dealt with by the Communities. That's all I'm gonna say.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic558x.u9	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I will begin with the last part of your answer. You remain very flou about the response mechanism. The only thing you say about this is that it is a possibility, but that it is actually a matter for the Communities. Then I wonder why it is in the federal government agreement. I ask you to implement something in your own coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic558x.u10	It's a possibility. The mechanism can be implemented. It would be in line with the coalition agreement, but there are different ways in which one can act. One way is for the Communities to ensure in a similar way a competition that limits the influx. That's the best one can do. That must be done correctly, and that is not easy. Another possibility is to put a filter when people enter the labour market. A federal-level response mechanism could be something like that. We can introduce this on the basis of the coalition agreement, that is correct, but I did not say that is the best solution. The best solution is to do something about the influx. That is what I said, and that is what is in the coalition agreement. That's all I'm gonna say. You don't have to look so surprised.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic558x.u11	Nor did you say that you would implement that part of the coalition agreement. It's a possibility, but you're not committed to doing that. That's how I understand it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic558x.u12	I have said that the best thing to do is to limit the influx of students. This is best for students, for the quality of training and for the quality of the profession. That is the first priority.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic558x.u13	I think the Minister's position is clear. Please continue, Mrs. Pas.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic558x.u14	I agree that this is the best solution, Minister, but it has been tried for decades. That solution does not seem to work very well on one side in this country. This is undoubtedly being continued, because your answer clearly shows that the dossier does not end here. As regards the RBs, you say that nothing has yet been finalized and that consultations will be held. You say you're still in that consultation phase. In doing so, I miss your commitment to show that you will make it clear during that consultation that a general can no longer be excused. If you do not use that stick behind the door, we know in advance what this consultation will lead to, namely until as little as in recent decades. I wish you every success in that consultation, but I fear I already know what the outcome will be. You think very highly of the Planning Committee. I believe, however, that they have already used very questionable methodologies in the past, which even included overconsumption. Assuming that all this is perfectly in order and taking this as a measure, I have my doubts. Perhaps you can give us the advice of the Planning Committee so that we can all judge its scientific quality. Finally, Minister, I specifically asked you about two additional situations. Firstly, the foreign students who are also coming here to take the entrance exam. This year, 3.303 students from outside Belgium have already registered, while normally only 505 are allowed to start. I have not received any answers to my questions as to how you will deal with this. Secondly, I did not receive any answers to my questions about the allocation of RIZIV numbers to students who have completed their studies abroad. I am sure that this dossier will be followed up and that it will certainly not be the last time we will question you on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic558x.u15	Minister, thank you for your answers, although I must tell you that your speech seems to me to be partly disconnected from reality. You talk a lot about the past, returning to the excess offer of physiotherapists 20 years ago. This is the current situation, which we have been reminded of throughout our work in a joint special committee, namely that the shortage of doctors is affecting the whole country. Contrary to what you say, it shows that there is a societal demand for more doctors. To hear my colleagues from the N-VA and Vlaams Belang, this demand would not exist. Therefore, I would like to ask them why the Flemish government decided in December 2019 to authorise 1,276 medical students and 180 dentistry students - twice as many as the quota set by the federal government - to undertake their university studies. The contest would condition the increase in INAMI numbers. This suggestion is not from you, but from the Planning Commission. The problem is that, in doing so, we will pose obstacles to young people who are motivated - despite the difficulty of the trade - and are obliged to participate in the entrance examinations to medical studies, because they want to exercise this profession to save lives and care for the sick. It is necessary to allow everyone to get a quick appointment with the doctor, but this is a real problem at the moment. So we're going to add some more arbitrariness. Indeed, a student graduating from high school, who is good at math and biology, may not be considered fit enough to be at the top of the competition. As a result, he will be prevented from becoming a physician when, during his studies, he may well prove to be an excellent physician, thanks in particular to his human qualities. I note another inconsistency in your speech. You tell us that the shortage of doctors also affects specialists. The situation is not likely to improve with regard to their working conditions. I'm thinking of neurologists, pediatricians, geriatricians, emergency doctors. At the same time, you are telling us that the increase in INAMI numbers proposed by the Planning Commission would only concern general practitioners. As for your argument to justify quotas by the need to guarantee the quality of training, I can hear it. However, if it were your real concern, your first initiative would have been to meet all the representatives of the universities, as well as the federations of students in medicine and in general, as well as the Ministers of Education who, all of them, seek only to find solutions with you. The Ministers of Education also want to find these solutions with you. I am therefore pleased that, in the end, consultation with the Communities is under way. But I think that this consultation should have taken place much earlier, and in any case before your draft royal decree was adopted in the Council of Ministers. They really felt like they were facing the fait accompli. I do not think this is the best way to engage in calm discussions. For the rest, and I shall end with that, you do not give us a timetable for this consultation. I'm sorry, because I think there's an emergency. We must at all costs avoid giving false hopes to all those young people who are motivated, who want to become doctors and who have already started their entrance examinations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic558x.u16	Mrs. Rohonyi, your reply has been very long. Be careful next time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic558x.u17	Mr President, Minister, I listened carefully to your answer. Maybe, first of all, a little pre-requisite. I hear colleagues say that the Planning Commission works in any way but scientific, that it has a questionable methodology. Let me tell you that these are shocking words! I invite you to look at the various reports of this Planning Commission, to make a methodological analysis of them. I also invite you to consider the composition of this Planning Commission, and perhaps to discuss it again. It always amuses me, but it starts to scare me, even cold in the back, when I see policies that emerge as judges of scientists, so - excuse me - they have no scientific methodology. I'm a little tired of that. Maybe produce a report that matches their methodology, and we'll talk about it again. Minister, your draft royal decree provides for 977 INAMI numbers for 2027 for the Flemish Community, and 505 for the French Community. This is an increase of 32% on the Flemish side and an increase of 2.6% on the French-speaking side. I think these numbers aren't on the road. I invite you, as well as all the parties of the majority government, to review this royal decree. The consultations, you say, are still under way with the Communities. That's what you already told me. Can we at least have a calendar? It's July 15. There are also deadlines that must be honoured, if only for a minimum of respect for the organization and the people directly concerned. Now you're talking about a filter at entry into the trade. Meanwhile, those who are trained in Europe outside Belgium have a free neighbourhood with an INAMI number automatically. This is obviously totally shocking. I do not approve of this form of upside-down discrimination with our young Belgians who have already worked for seven years or more, sometimes, in studies. I'm finally coming to the quality. For the quality of training, avoid too many and limit the influx. I look at what happens sometimes, and there are a very large number of French people on the side of the French Community. I also know that there are regularly, although I do not have the latest figures, a significant number of Dutch at the level of the Flemish Community. We must not forget that there is an evolution in the profession, especially in terms of rhythm, but let us not forget the patients. Indeed, when I am told of figures, I also see a reality in which the presence of general practitioners has shortcomings in many communes. A reality in which guards in general medicine are difficult to organize, where appointments are impossible in terms of quality of care for patients in a wide range of specializations. A reality in which problems arise on a regular basis to ensure care on the ground. For me, all of this must be as priority as quality. Demographic trends are known. We must, and you must, take that into account. In this regard, I invite you to leave the political field and also to work with health actors. On this point, neither did you answer me. I invite you to pay much more attention to the contribution of health actors in these ongoing discussions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic558x.u18	Mr President, Minister, allow me first to briefly comment on the Planning Committee. You can try to convince me of anything. I have examined the opinions of that committee, and in particular the parameters used, very often. It seems to me very difficult to deny that politics is sneaking in there. One of the parameters is that doctors in French-speaking Belgium have been found to work less hours. That is a consequence of the fact that in certain specialties there is such a surplus that these doctors barely have patients. This is institutionalized to say that more doctors are needed in French-speaking Belgium. In this way we tried to adjust the distribution according to population, but fortunately we were able to stop it. Anyway, I've had my ideas about that ever since. I also mention the way in which the votes in that committee sometimes take place, for example at times when the Flemings cannot even be present. You can attack that, but I will not change my mind very soon, but that is not really the most important thing. I've heard a very good explanation from you. That is why I am convinced that you actually know how to look at this dossier. You have indeed explained very well why the decision was taken at the time to limit the number of doctors who can start training and then enter a job. You motivated the law of 20 years ago, which is quite right. The least you can say in your explanation is that that law never applied on the French-speaking side. Year by year there was a general pardon on the French-speaking side and several years there was no filter at all, and since a year or two there has been a semifilter that doesn't actually work either. You are completely ignorant of this, although it has been built in those 20 years. You don't bring that up. However, you take on board the fake "sorry" argument of the Planning Committee stating that in French-speaking Belgium there are still deficits in certain sub-specialities. That is true, but the fact that those deficits still exist is the great proof that it is not the federal quota, because they were never applied. However, it is the allocation to the sub-specialities that is a Community competence. That allocation never happened properly there. I'll explain it mathematically, too, because it always comes back. I'm assuming that we're graduating 100 students, of which only 10 opt for a GP, which is too little. The logic that is being applied is that the federal quotas need to be increased somewhat. So we're graduating 110 students. In that calculation there are still only 11 general practitioners, but in the meantime there are 9 extra for that one general practitioner. That is the real crux of the discussion. You are talking about quality, but one element that you also forget is that it is partly also about money. The overconsumption in second-line care on the French-speaking side is paid for by Flanders. I believe that all these imbalances must remain, this unequal approach to how to deal with medicine, but the bill must no longer be spread throughout the country. Mr. Secretary, I hear you're having conversations. They've been doing that for about 25 years. I have very little hope of that, especially if you do not hold a stick behind the door and you are quite clear that you do not want to do so. I am very curious to hear CD&V again about this discussion. In the past that party was on the Flemings' side, today they no longer pose a question and that is clear enough for me.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic558x.u19	I think most of the speakers have spoken too long, so I would like to highlight the rules. Members have two minutes to ask their questions and one minute to reply. I'm not trying to be too strict, but there are a lot of questions on the agenda, so I'd like to call on everyone to make an effort.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic558x.u20	Mr President, Minister, a few weeks ago you announced a great historic agreement on the status of medical specialists in training. However, this great agreement suffered from some asymmetry since, on the francophone side, the Interuniversity Committee of Doctors Assistants Specialists (CIMACS) indicated that it was not at all satisfied with the agreement. You continued negotiations with them, but many problems continued to arise. On the francophone side, the opting out problem remains. CIMACS has also begun to organize an action by encouraging medical students not to sign this opting out, which forces them to do a lot of overtime. There is also the problem of training and management, which are still insufficient and the issue of wages. Minister, could you let me know how the file is evolving? Does the agreement that has been reached really guarantee an improvement for the contracts that will take place on the occasion of the next academic year?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic558x.u21	Mr. Chair, Minister, the context is known. An agreement had been reached. However, it was quickly realized that some of the Medical Assistant Specialists (MACCS) considered that they had not been properly taken into account. As a reminder, they denounced the agreement by putting in place an action plan. Can you clarify the commitments that were made on May 23rd? Have these commitments been met, including through additional meetings with CIMACS, among others? What is the exact date of entry into force of the measures that have been discussed within the framework of the National Medical-Hospital Commission? Will the contract be effective on 1 August, as promised? What points still need to be discussed? Is it clear that these discussions will take place as early as September? Minister, I would ask you to clarify the content of the points that will be discussed, as to the timing, as to the continuation of the contract, the quality of training, the hours and their respect, the questions of pension, unemployment, sick leave and pregnancy. It seems to me that it is in the interest of all, of assistants, of hospitals and of you as Minister of Public Health, that an agreement be respected, operationalized and that care be continued in the best possible conditions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic558x.u22	Mr Minister, my question is on the same subject. There would be an agreement between hospitals and doctors on an adaptation of the status of doctors-specialists in training. However, there appears to be another hair in the butter or a kink in the cable with the French-speaking specialists in training. What about the reform of the statute? Can you give me a specific timeline for that? For the time being, efforts to reach an agreement have been made mainly by the social partners and Mr De Cock. Will the government take further steps to work on the issue of retirement and the very important separation of employer and trainer? Why is this not included in the agreement so far? This is an essential feature of the status of the HAIOs, which you yourself worked with at the time and which is probably well known. Will you do anything about it yourself? Can you also indicate what problems there are today for the French-speaking specialists in training? How do you feel about these problems? Will we sit around the table again?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic558x.u23	Mrs Fonck, as regards consultation and the existence of dialogue, etc., you mentioned CIMACS. It is true that the representation of CIMACS left the negotiating table on 19 May and has not returned, since then, but a new delegation of medical specialists in French-language training came shortly after the conclusion of the collective agreement in a joint committee. I'll come back. This new delegation, composed of two representatives elected by the Faculty of Francophone Medicine, was first received on May 23 by my Chief of Staff in the presence of Mr. De Cock and a series of concrete agreements were agreed at this meeting. It is true that this delegation subsequently found that these agreements were not sufficiently clear as mentioned in the letter I had sent them one day later. After several contacts, during which our commitments were reconfirmed, in my presence, and after a working meeting chaired by Mr. From Cock, I think we got along. The spirits have calmed down. This means that we are really in a dialogue and in a spirit of agreement. Since then, this new delegation has participated in other work, for example in the drafting of a frequently asked questions (FAQ), on which I will say a few words later. We are therefore in a very productive dialogue with both a representation of doctors specialists in Flemish training and a representation by faculty of doctors specialists in Francophone training, and this is going very well. Our attention is focused on drawing up agreements. I referred to the agreement concluded in the Joint Committee on Medicine and Hospitals. We formalize that. I signed this morning under the formal document declaring this convention to be generally binding. My colleague, Pierre-Yves Dermagne, has yet to take steps. Mrs Fonck, there is no doubt about it, we are going to take that agreement to heart and it will bring tangible improvements. However, it is certainly not a solution to all problems and therefore not an end point. We actually work in two stages. At this first stage, I'm about to go deeper. We are also entering immediately into the second phase, which deals with problems such as protection against unemployment, the pension scheme and a number of outstanding problems in the area of parental leave. So that's the second phase. The Ministers for Pensions and Work also have some work to do on these issues. I told the young people concerned that we should start this second phase immediately. We are not temporizing, we are not waiting, we are moving on immediately. That goes in a good spirit, too. So the first phase is sealed by the convention and that is really an improvement. By the way, we are spending EUR 30 million on this. On a wage mass of just under EUR 300 million, this is an improvement of 10%. That extra money allows to give additional fees for uncomfortable hours and working during the night and the weekend. I would also like to make it clear that there were misunderstandings about this because the additional remuneration for uncomfortable hours is not at all dependent on the duration of the working week itself. Any performance during uncomfortable hours is reimbursed in the collective agreement. It is possible that there are hospitals where a higher amount is paid today than what we are now providing for in this collective agreement. The agreement stipulates that these old, better wage conditions will be maintained during the transitional period. Of course, it is not intended that the young people in question should deteriorate. A transitional period is therefore provided for for those exceptional situations where a hospital pays more than what we now foresee for those uncomfortable hours. There have also been misunderstandings that need to be eliminated. This, of course, means that the existing legislation will continue to apply. The Law of 12 December 2010 provides for the maximum duration of basic working time to be 48 hours per week. It can be agreed to perform up to 12 hours extra per week. In exceptional circumstances an additional 12 hours can be worked, provided that those hours are recovered within 13 weeks. For example, 90-hour working weeks have been illegal for a long time. It is, of course, a question of control in those situations. I believe that the collective agreement that has been reached gives important incentives to better document the recording of working time in an independent manner, so that the Social Inspectorate can carry out very specific checks on the basis of written documents. Mrs Gijbels, that is not the same solution as the solution that emerged from the general practitioners in training. There are reasons for that, too. In the case of general practitioners in training, the centralization of the agreements and the financing in one non-profit organisation made sense, because it concerns thousands of places. In hospitals, it's slightly different, because it's not so many places. The need to centralise this for hospitals in one instance is much less. However, there is a need for independent monitoring on the basis of an independent record of working hours. That's exactly what we're planning. A third independent party will be responsible for the recording of working hours and thus allow checks, even contradictory ones, to be carried out. The essence is that it is about controllability. The commitment to this convention was to harmonise working and wage conditions in particular, to make them more transparent and to write them down in a generic training agreement. Until now, there was so much difference that everything was also completely intransparent. Mrs Fonck, the date of entry is 1 August, but this obviously depends on the start of the training, because it is linked to the training. This principle is being realized. We're working on it and I need to discuss it in depth with both French-speaking and Dutch-speaking representatives. We are busy flooring on a whole series of issues and questions that have been asked. This is the exercise of the frequently asked questions (FAQ), in which these people participate with the National Joint Commission and INAMI. The FAQ is an important tool to clarify all outstanding issues and issues in the first phase. We've already started the second phase. It is, of course, important that the hospitals and the internships continue to bear a great responsibility. They must have a real commitment to take serious action everywhere. If there are complaints about the quality of training, we must respond to them. I believe, like the Flemish Association of Arts Specialists in Education, that this is a historic agreement. I understand that there has been less euphoric reaction on the French-speaking side, with more caution and many more questions. That probably has to do with the realities on the ground. I also call for a strong commitment from the French-speaking hospital directories to carry this out correctly. I think this is important. This is a very important step forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic558x.u24	Minister, first of all I must denounce your method. Indeed, you announced an agreement, while the francophone side that was at the initiative of the mobilization because its situation was particularly worrying was not in agreement. It's not normal. There was then a national mobilization and you announced an agreement, while Francophone students disagreed and that did not respond at all to the many problems. While some progress is being made today, it is indeed thanks to the fact that medical students, young doctors, have mobilized like healthcare staff in general. They said: "Now, that's enough! We want progress." On the bottom, you say that no assistant will lose money. For having met them regularly, the first problem was not money but working conditions and training conditions. It wasn't about money at all. When you say that there is no hindrance, that there will be no hindrance, that is not true either, because you know that every year or every six months they change hospitals and are obliged to sign new contracts. There are therefore no acquired rights under these conditions. Minister, I have not heard you comment on the specific problem of opting-out on the francophone side, which is applied very regularly. Young doctors are under pressure to sign an additional clause. With these contracts, their weekly limit increases from 60 hours to 72 hours. Minister, are you really going to carry out any checks to put an end to this opt-out? I didn't hear you on that particular point. What is problematic is that there is no agreement yet. There is indeed progress. You put a little pressure on hospitals and free up resources, but you really have to come up with a situation similar to that of general practitioners where an independent body really controls training and working hours. I am one of the first general practitioners who have been able to benefit from this new status and I can say that this has put an end to all abuses and greatly improved the training of young doctors. I therefore believe that we must go in the same direction on the part of doctors who are specialists in training.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic558x.u25	Mr. Chair, Mr. Minister, it is a good thing that the dialogue has resumed, including with French-speaking Candidate Assistant Specialists (MACS). The first phase will be implemented from 1 August 2021 and will then apply. As for FAQs, it is important to tell you that MACS representatives should not only be observers at the discussion level, but should also be involved in the decision-making process. It was really a point of attention for this first phase. As far as this second phase is concerned, much remains to be done. Let's recognize him! This is not going to happen in two days. I don't have a problem with that. Other ministers are concerned, at least the Ministers of Labour and Pensions. But I think it's important to send you the following message. What would be considered to be totally unheard of for MACS is that we will be tarnishing for months without deciding for this second phase and for the various points that concern them. Setting a deadline is always very complicated and it makes things difficult. But setting a landing target seems to me to be really essential if we are to have a calm situation on the MACS side while continuing the dialogue. I imagine that more concrete and much more frequent discussions will start again from September You make differences between Dutch-speaking MACS and French-speaking MACS. There are indeed differences and the reality is extremely plural on the francophone side. The situation in hospitals is sometimes very different from one hospital to another or from one university network to another, with extremely different situations between assistants at the level of contracts, remuneration or other points. We must also be able to hear it and know this reality. Finally, I will conclude by stressing the question of hours and, more generally, their status. First of all, it's a human question. We need reasonable working conditions. But it is also a qualitative issue of patient care. You can't resuscitate someone properly when you've already got 24 hours on duty behind you. Minister, I can tell you from experience. For the quality of patient care, these are fundamental points that must be able to be realized beyond this first phase.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic558x.u26	Minister, you indicated that the Flemish medical specialists in training themselves speak of an historic agreement. We should certainly praise them, because they have been paying attention to this for a very long period of time. For example, very important steps could be taken in a dossier that has been dragging on for decades. You also said that a 90-hour week is simply illegal. That was the case in the past, but the problem was that the duration of work was not checked. An independent monitoring mechanism for working time is therefore absolutely a good thing. However, I continue to regret that we did not go for a real separation between employer and trainer. Working time is not the only issue; there must also be a safe environment, with a point of contact where doctors in training can report problems with regard to working conditions and the quality of training. You are counting on the commitment of the hospitals and the internships. In many cases it will undoubtedly be possible to rely on it, but it should be possible to follow up and report on it. I will certainly continue to follow the way this continues. It is certainly a good thing that concrete steps are now being taken and that the next phase of this agreement is being considered.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic558x.u27	Mr President, Minister, I shall be brief. We have already debated the subject a number of times. What is the state of play with regard to the supply management services of the strategic stock of medicinal products and medical devices, and the procurement in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic558x.u28	Mr President, Mrs Depoorter, the contract with the company Medista NV for the supply management of strategic stocks of medicinal products and medical devices, as well as the contract for the stock control of in vitro diagnostic medical devices expired at the end of May 2021. The tenders were received on 14 May 2021. They're currently being analyzed. As long as the procedure has not been completed and the tenderer has not taken a decision on the award of the contract, third parties shall not have information on the procedure. The disclosure of that information would jeopardise the successful outcome of the ongoing procedure for awarding the public contract and thus harm the financial interests of the State. The previous award procedure was a negotiated procedure without prior publication pursuant to Article 42, § 1, 1°, b, of the Law of 17 June 2016 on public procurement. At the time of the start of the activities at the end of March, beginning of April 2020, which was the beginning of the crisis, Medista was the only wholesaler at that time to have the immediately available capacity and facilities for the urgent stockage of the medicinal products purchased by the Belgian State.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic558x.u29	Minister, it is already mid-July 2021. The date of 14 May 2021 has been a while. Do you have a timing within which the procedure will be completed?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic558x.u30	Mrs Depoorter, I do not have the timing within which the procedure must be completed, but it must, of course, move forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic558x.u31	Minister, I will re-apply the question during the summer. I'm hoping to get an answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic558x.u32	Minister, you are working with your fellow ministers Clarinval and Khattabi on a national plan against hormone disrupters. With the regularity of the clock, the media reports about hormone disrupters. That whole PFOS issue is close to my heart is precisely because PFOS and by extension PFAS would have hormone-distorting properties. Mr Jiroflée will talk about the animal hormone disrupting properties in sunscreen and pesticides also contain hormone disruptors. Disturbing is especially the cocktail effect, which we talked about last week. I submitted my question after we discussed the preliminary draft plan for sustainable development in the Committee on Climate Change, because I remain hungry in this respect. It does not go beyond informing and raising awareness. I deliberately choose the products with as few hormone disruptors as possible in the shop, but that is always the more expensive option. However, with information and consumer awareness, we will not get there if the product with harmful substances costs only EUR 2 and without EUR 10. What will be your role in the national plan against hormone disrupters? When are we gonna hear more about that? When can we expect the specific website around the theme?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic558x.u33	Mr. Minister, Test Purchase has examined 16 sun lotions and 14 sprays with factor 30 and 13 products with factor 50 intended for children, for hormone disruptors and microplastics. 18 of the 30 adult products examined contain one or more of the 26 European-level allergens recognised. One to three percent of the European population may have allergic reactions. Of all the products studied intended for children, there was one containing allergens. Test Purchase considers that allergens do not belong in products intended for children. Hormone disrupters were also found in a number of these products. You will understand that I am particularly concerned about the allergens in children's products. I'd like to hear your opinion on that. What can we do about it? Can we do anything about that at all without expecting that from Europe? What is your position on the hormone disrupters in the products? What is the state of play with regard to banning these products at European level? My final question is in line with what Mrs Creemer has already said. What is the state of play with regard to the development of a national action plan on hormone disruptors?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic558x.u34	Mr Prévot apologized and his question No 55018515C becomes moot.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic558x.u35	Mrs Creemers, in our view One World, One Health are important initiatives against hormone disrupters. The National Action Plan Hormone Interrupters (NAPED) is currently being developed by the Public Health Office in consultation with the competent administrations at the federal and regional level and the community level. This consultation takes place through the so-called 'Living Environment Health' cell. The actions should contribute to better health and ensure that the Belgian population and the environment are less exposed to hormone disrupters. The NAPED will be presented to the Ministers of the Environment and Public Health in September through an integrated Inter-Ministerial Conference on Environment and Health for prior validation. We will then consult the public in October-November. The final validation of the NAPED is planned for December, so that the first actions can be launched in 2022. Let us hope that will be early 2022. Following a consultation of stakeholders and competent authorities, three priority lines have been identified. Firstly, there are the preventive measures. It is about sensitizing and training, but also about labelling the products. Secondly, there are regulatory actions, national and/or European. Changes in legislation, communication, economic instruments and traceability play a role in this. Thirdly, there are actions relating to scientific research. We will mention in each action sheet contained in the NAPED the period of implementation of these actions. To your second question I can answer that the NAPED will take account of the existing regulatory framework in Belgium. In addition, one of the objectives of the NAPED is to promote partnerships and cooperation between the different competent authorities and stakeholders involved in the implementation of each action. Some actions will thus be included in other national action plans, such as the Federal Sustainable Development Plan and the National Environmental Health Action Plan (NEHAP). The implementation of the actions included in the NAPED, the hormone disrupters plan, will be monitored by the NAPED Task Force according to the timing indicated on each action sheet. The Public Health Office will play a role in the implementation of certain actions, as certain actions are included in the preliminary draft FPDO, the Federal Action Plan for Sustainable Development, which is currently under public consultation. There will also be consultations throughout the duration of the NAPED with the two follow-up committees, one of scientists and one of stakeholders. Your third question was about gender. Gender will indeed be taken into account for certain actions. For example, a major awareness campaign for the Belgian population will be organised at different stages over several years. The population groups most vulnerable to exposure to hormone disruptors, such as pregnant women, children and disadvantaged groups, will be sensitised as a priority. In addition, Belgium will advocate at European level a ban on the use of identified hormone disrupters in the composition of consumer goods intended for the most vulnerable populations. Gender is also taken into account, as exposure to hormone disruptors has an impact on both men and women and this exposure can also affect posterity. It may include fertility problems and epigenetic changes. With regard to your fourth question, one of the regulatory actions in the second line of action of the FPDO, which I spoke about earlier, will be carried out jointly by the FPS Public Health and the FPS Economy. The aim of this action is to identify which economic instruments are best suited to ensure fair access for the entire Belgian population to products of higher quality, such as eco-label products, and which economic instruments are best suited to encourage the population to replace products containing hormone disruptors with healthy and sustainable alternatives. In addition, as I mentioned earlier, Belgium will advocate at European level a ban on the use of identified hormone disrupters in consumer goods intended for the most vulnerable populations, because we must, of course, address the problem at source. I come to your fifth question. The edlists.org website is the result of a collaboration between six European countries: Belgium, Denmark, the Netherlands, Spain, France and Sweden. The website provides free access to three lists of chemicals, first, hormone disruptors identified at European level, second, hormone disruptors identified by a single Member State, third, suspected hormone disruptors assessed at European level. That website was posted online in July 2020 and is updated frequently. One of the actions of the NAPED provides for an awareness-raising campaign around that website for industrialists to encourage the replacement of identified and or suspected hormone disrupters. Mrs Jiroflée had another question about the use of allergens in sun creams. It's getting a lot more concrete. Allergic reactions to certain substances are individual reactions. Most substances may provoke allergic reactions in some people, but their allergen potential is not always high. European Cosmetics Regulation No. On the one hand, it regulates the composition and labelling of cosmetic products. That Regulation prohibits compounds with the highest allergen potential and imposes restrictions on other allergens which significantly reduce the risk of a reaction, in particular by limiting their concentration or by prohibiting them in products that come into long contact with the skin. For the 26 potential allergenic fragrances identified at European level, it was decided to include them on the label when their concentration is significant, so that consumers are informed about their presence and they are able to choose a product with knowledge. The number of fragrances covered by the labelling obligation should be increased in the near future. Sun products used for children may be specific products or products intended for the whole family. Banning these substances in children's sun products would therefore have only a limited impact. An indication on the label of all solar products takes a broader and more proportionate approach and enables consumers to be properly informed and to make free choices.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic558x.u36	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I welcome your statement on sunscreens, because that is exactly the point I wanted to make in view of the national plan on hormone disrupters. For about 90% of the population, when he or she is in front of a rack with sun creams of between 3 and 10 euros, the indications on the label will not matter. They will therefore opt for the cheapest option; holiday is already expensive with, among other things, additional costs for tests. This is all the more true for disadvantaged groups. When a product contains identified hormone disruptors, I believe that we should not hesitate and simply ban it from our market. I remain somewhat hungry about the choice between informing and sensitizing on the one hand and removing such products from the market on the other. When there was talk of titanium dioxide in mouth masks, all those mouth masks had to come off the market right away. When hormone disruptors are found in food, it all goes much slower. I'm not going anywhere near that. I'm not going anywhere. I'm not going anywhere. Minister, I note that a public consultation will take place in October and November. Does Parliament have a role to play in this, or does it have a role to play outside Parliament? The final validation will follow in December. I look forward to the moment when we can really start in January. Petra De Sutter has worked very hard with the Senate team in the previous legislature on an information report with immensely interesting recommendations. I hope that will be included in the work around the NAPED. We'll definitely get back to you after the summer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic558x.u37	Minister, I will be free to return to the state of play in the national action plan against hormone disrupters in the late autumn. However, I am particularly pleased with your announcement that awareness will focus on the target groups, including the disadvantaged. I agree with Mrs Creemers that people who do not have it wide often do not read the fine print on a package first, but especially look at the price. We must therefore be more strict as regards the presence of hormone disruptors in the products. As far as allergens are concerned, I believe that there should be no presence in children's products and certainly not in sun products, which remain on the skin for a very long time. The sooner children are confronted with it, the more problematic that is. If I have understood you correctly, the labelling of those allergens will be tightened. You were talking about soon. What exactly do you mean by that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic558x.u38	I have not yet set out exactly what we are going to do; I have said that a number of actions need to be taken. As far as labelling is concerned, of course, we will not relax things. If we say we're going to look at that, that means we're going to get stricter. I have listened carefully to your two comments. Mrs Creemers, you specifically mentioned the problem of price. I have also referred to economic instruments in general. I have indicated to my collaborator that we need to check whether we can proceed in a synchronous manner, from the committee and from the government and the FPS, for example in the context of a public survey. I suggest that you discuss with my head of my cabinet, Mr Bertels, the time when we will come back to that. After all, it would be interesting if the timing of your questions and possibly a thematic debate on them were in line with what we are doing with the general public.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic558x.u39	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic558x.u40	Mr Minister, the resistance of bacteria to antibiotics is a serious problem, in which certain antibacterial medicines can only be found with difficulty for certain diseases. There must therefore be a fight on different fronts. An important point is limiting the use of antibiotics, both in human medicine and veterinary medicine. Another important point is to keep looking for alternatives to combat multi-resistant bacteria. In your policy paper, you referred very briefly to phage therapy. I noticed that, because I am particularly interested in that. I would like to ask the following questions. How many phage therapy treatments have been carried out in Belgium over the last five years, per year? Were these successful? Were there any serious side effects reported to the FAGG? Is there a national register for these treatments? Who pays for these treatments? Which are the centres of expertise for phage therapy? What actions do you plan to take in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic558x.u41	Mrs Gijbels, the use of bacteriophages in the fight against antibiotic-resistant bacteria has a long clinical history in Eastern Europe and a recent Western study confirms the potential. (...) Excuse me, I've just been asked to be present in plenary. That's too bad, 'cause I'm here now. From the opposition one has to know what one wants. Can I make a phone call for that? [[Assent]] I'm taking it back. So this has a certain tradition. Recent western research if I may express myself as old fashioned as this confirms its potential. Although there are no commercial products on the market, more and more doctors are looking at phage as a remedy for untreatable infections. In Western Europe, Belgium plays an absolute pioneering role in this respect. In 2016, the FAGG provided scientific and technical advice to the Military Hospital Queen Astrid in connection with the use of natural bacteriophages. This opinion stated that when presenting an analytical certificate from an approved laboratory, bacteriophages in the form of a majestic preparation can be delivered for a specific patient. This is unique in Europe and allows our country to build a knowledge origin in the field of the production and use of phages. In Belgium bacteriophage products are produced in the Military Hospital and the quality control is carried out by Sciensano. You asked how many treatments a year have been in the last five years. On average, there were 12 per year in the 2015-2019 period, with an increasing trend. 17 treatments were applied in 2019. From the treatment settings it is reported that success with bacteriophage therapy has been achieved in severe situations where antibiotic therapy has failed. An important problem is that there is still a lack of objective clinical data to demonstrate the effectiveness of bacteriophage therapy. There is a limited number of clinical trials, the results of which were published, but which could not or have not yet been conclusively demonstrated, sometimes for technical reasons. Setting up a randomised clinical trial is obviously difficult for personalised treatment, where the bacteriophage to be used is selected from a library, based on the patient's specific infection. In the treatments that have taken place so far, eradication of the bacteria was reported in 85% of the treatments. An important nuance in this respect is that almost all combination therapies with antibiotics are used in Belgium. Often, the combination of phages and antibiotics manages to eradicate the infection with antibiotic-resistant bacteria. You asked about side effects. The FAGG has not received any reports of serious adverse events associated with phage therapy, out of a total of 87 treatments, sometimes several per patient. The treatments are all registered in a REDCap database, coordinated by Dr. Sarah Djebara, who works at the Military Hospital and the Institute of Tropical Medicine. Currently, Belgium has started cooperation with Switzerland, where Dr Shawna McCallin is responsible for the creation of an international database on phage therapy. Who's paying? The bacteriophagen-based medicinal products are currently manufactured as a majestic preparation. Such preparations shall be reimbursed by the sickness insurance institution provided that the products from which the preparation is made are included in the list of recoverable products. This is not the case for bacteriophages. For the time being, therefore, the FOD pays for personalized phage production, including for citizens. As regards centres of expertise, I can inform you that the Military Hospital, particularly through Dr Jean-Paul Pirnay, was the first hospital in Belgium to use phage therapy. So it has developed as a centre of expertise. Meanwhile, phage therapy is also applied in several university hospitals. In doing so, majestic preparations of fagen are used, which are made in the Military Hospital with a quality control in the laboratories of Sciensano. There was a question about actions. The FAGG has set up a working group with key stakeholders. A first objective was to map the use of phage therapy in Belgium. However, these activities have been somewhat delayed as a result of the covid crisis. However, they will be re-recorded. In addition, the FAGG has also placed the issue on the international agenda. International cooperation was sought for the development of a regulatory framework for bacteriophage therapy. However, there was generally little support from the authorities of other Member States to cooperate. The main argument was the lack of clinical trial results. The ongoing discussions on the revision of the European pharmaceutical legislative framework may give the opportunity to re-examine the dossier. The FAGG has also submitted a request to the European Directorate for the Quality of Medicines (EDQM) to include in the European Pharmacopoeia a text on the quality requirements for bacteriophages. This would allow harmonised quality standards to be defined for those products, which would provide greater clarity for doctors, pharmacists, producers and investors. Based on our country's request, the EDQM has set up a working group to examine the feasibility, applicability and impact of such a text for quality requirements. An associate of Sciensano is chairman of that working group. Our National Action Plan One Health Antimicrobial Resistance explores the possibility of setting up a national phage therapy centre, where phages are isolated, tested, stored and distributed. That national phage therapy centre, for example the Military Hospital, would be supervised by the health authorities and operate in interaction with national stakeholders. The supportive legislative framework could be based on the quality by design concept, which is increasingly applied in the development and production of biopharmaceuticals. In that concept, the commercial interest would be removed by maximising clinical availability and monitoring of clinical use.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic558x.u42	Minister, I am very pleased that we are playing a pioneering role in this area. You yourself say that only a limited number of cases are dealt with each year. In 2019 nineteen treatments were carried out, which are often successful. For the patients who have been treated with antibiotics and often have serious infections, it is a matter of life or death, so I am very glad to see that further efforts are being made here. I think it's very special that the Defense Department pays, including for civilians. I look forward to a more structural solution in this area, so that it can be anchored in the arsenal that we can make available to patients infected with multi-resistant bacteria.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic558x.u43	Mrs Farih has indicated that she will come later due to problems with the train, so her questions may be dealt with later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic558x.u44	Minister, I refer to the question that has been put.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic558x.u45	At the end of June, the RIZIV paid a total of 14,839 nurses who met the criteria for the incentive premium, for a total amount of EUR 11,000,834. Any regularisation payments, for example as a result of well-founded disputes, may increase these figures in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic558x.u46	Mr Minister, in fact it is a small number of nurses. I find that somewhat strange and I shall certainly come back to this later. Do the other nurses not have an account number or is this exercise still going on?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic558x.u47	Mr. Chairman, my administration has received a copy of the reports from approximately 150 hospitals regarding reporting under the White Blouse Fund for 2020. Analysis of the data received is ongoing and results will follow as soon as possible. These data will also be discussed with the social partners. For a number of hospitals it appears that a number of functions were reported which are very far from the scope of the fund. Given the scope of the law and the agreements made in the 2020 reporting agreement, the administration has contacted these hospitals asking them to provide more information on these created functions and to provide a justification as to why they would fit within the scope of the Health Care Staff Fund. In general, it appears that hospitals have tried to use the best possible means. This confirms that the Fund's structural resources meet a real need for the care sector. I am glad that we can support the sector in an additional and structural way while ensuring the objective of the White Blouse Fund, that is, the strengthening of staff at the patient's bedside. Data reported through Maribel funds for home nurses are also being analysed. The results will follow as soon as possible. Of the total budget of 402 million euros, 48 million euros is reserved for self-employed nurses. The discussions for this group are indeed ongoing. Different issues will be taken into account. The regulation refers to two types of fees that can be paid to self-employed nurses and healthcare professionals, compensation for re-enterers and entry into the sector and an administrative charge. In the spirit of the law, however, the intention is to use the available resources in such a way that there can be a clear increase in the number of nurses taking care of patients at home. Moreover, it is also important to compare it with similar initiatives in order to achieve maximum coherence. It cannot be the intention of these measures to prevent the use of nurses in other settings such as emergency services. All these different aspects are currently being considered with a view to the proper use of the funds allocated.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic558x.u48	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. It is still not clear to me how far that data is going. You also said that you would deliver the questionnaire to us. That still hasn't happened. You do not yet have a concrete view of the introduction. I find that problematic. We are certainly going to request this data, because we hear from the sector that this remains problematic. We shall certainly come back to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic558x.u49	Mr President, I do not think I heard a word out of four of the minister's speech because the connection is unstable. Still, I'm in the house. I will therefore read the answer carefully. It's not my style, but I have no other choice. Minister, I don't know if you've talked about it because I haven't heard anything. By the press, you sent the responsibility back to the hospitals and said they only had to hire. Let us not forget a fundamental element. The reality is that there is a lack of attractiveness of the profession and that there is a shortage of nurses. It is therefore a little easy to charge the hospitals by telling them, by means of communication, that there is the White Blouses Fund and that it is enough to hire, when there are no staff. This makes the equation impossible for hospitals. It's obviously a lot more complicated. I therefore invite you again, Minister, this is not the first time and this will not be the last time, especially to work on an increase in the attractiveness of the profession over the entire professional career.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic558x.u50	Mr President, I am also expected in plenary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic558x.u51	My question No. 55018628C and 55018632C may be converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic558x.u52	Minister, on Friday 4 June, in Brussels, the midwife practice of pregnant women in Brussels... (the minister receives a phone call from the Prime Minister and leaves the committee room)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic558x.u53	As things stand today, we will not come to the last question today. Perhaps in the meantime we can discuss what we will do with the rest of the questions? Will they be answered in writing? Should they be converted into written questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic558x.u54	I encourage everyone to turn them into written questions. Otherwise they will be discussed again on 14 September, if I am not mistaken.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic558x.u55	What about merged questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic558x.u56	That is what you must agree with the colleagues, of course.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic558x.u57	Mr Minister, I had started by asking my question about the midwife in Brussels, which was merged with that of Mr Decaluwé. I tabled my question following the fact that on 4 June the midwife's practice in Brussels called the alarm bell because of the high workload. There is also in other midwife practices, including in Ghent and Antwerp. Pregnant in Brussels said it would stop for six months because there is a shortage of midwife. They're going through a hell of a lot of work. They have a full-time job with a structural shortage of experienced midwifes. They must be available 24/24 every day of the month. Some midwifes perform according to their own saying 15 nights wait a month. It's gonna take a lot of energy. According to Elke Van Den Bergh of Zwanger in Brussels, many midwifes are studying so that is not where the problem lies, but they do not choose first-line care. After a three-year training course, midwife in primary care has to take another two years to get insurance. After all, the training does not focus on primary care. On the contrary, it focuses more on specializations or working in a hospital. It is noted in the field that many students are even afraid to accompany a normal delivery and to make the leap towards childbirth independently. Many midwifes also consider the three-year training to be too short. They also face a lack of recognition and respect, which has an impact on the status and remuneration. Are you aware of the situation of the midwife, as outlined by themselves? I am referring specifically to the midwifes in the first line. How will you respond to the alarm calls for better working conditions and additional staff? How will you ensure that primary care is better integrated into healthcare training? How will you ensure that the first line can become more attractive to young caregivers?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic558x.u58	Mr President, there are several elements. In recent years we have seen a shift in some pregnant women from the model of medical follow-up of their childbirth to the guidance of midwifes in the first line. This is an international evolution and does not appear to be a bad thing for public health and for low-risk pregnancies, as the WHO's report 'The State of the World's Midwifery 2021', presented to Member States at the end of May 2021, shows. Several reports from the Knowledge Centre and the Mutualities have already pointed to this development in Belgium. The aim is to reduce the number of medical interventions during childbirth by intensifying preparations for childbirth. I repeat that these are low-risk births, where physiological delivery can take place taking into account the safety of the patient and the unborn child. This also relates to the empowerment of the patient, who is a real partner in her or his own health. Midwifes play an important role in this. They work multidisciplinaryly with obstetricians, gynecologists and general practitioners. We need to look at how we should and can adapt our health care to this paradigm shift, which leads some patients to opt for a birth outside the hospital environment, with, of course, the quality and safety of care as a priority. For example, we need to consider how existing intermediate structures, called birth centres, should be placed in the system. The reduction in the length of stay in hospitals has also increased the workload of midwife in primary care. That certainly deserves attention. Structures such as 'Pregnant in Brussels' respond to the growing demand for which the system of basic training, economic system and stricter psychosocial follow-up does not seem sufficiently adapted. This should be embedded in a broader exercise around mother and child care. As a result of the work of the Planning Committee on Midwife Medical on the labour market and the various scenarios for the evolution of that labour force, more and more trained midwifes are strengthening the Belgian labour market. So it is not a quantitative problem, but rather a problem of the organisation of primary care. The Memoranda I have received from the professional associations of midwifes condemn the situation. We will certainly involve the field of work through its representatives in the Federal Council for the Midwifes, which is being renewed, in the analysis of that evolution and the changes to be made. In reply to your question, Mr Warmoes, I would like to say the following. In general and as stated in the coalition agreement, well-structured, strong and performing first-line care is a key to the future. Therefore, primary health care needs to be revalidated and further strengthened, in cooperation with the Länder. Such rehabilitation is based on many aspects, including the training of healthcare providers, the financing and reimbursement of health care and the development of the healthcare organisation. This is being worked on at various levels. A multi-annual budgetary framework is currently being developed within the RIZIV. A broad call has already been made to stakeholders to present proposals and ideas. There was a massive response to that. The RIZIV now processes together with scientists, caregivers and insurance institutions that treasures received ideas, in which first-line care is an important part. I look forward to the results of this work, on which I expect a report in a few weeks' time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic558x.u59	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. In the first part of your answer, you actually confirm what I asked in my question, namely, that this is an increasing trend, that this is positive, but that the result is that the workload for midwifes has increased enormously in the first line, that this needs to be tackled structurally and that it is indeed not a quantitative problem of number of midwifes, but rather of organising them. In the second part of your reply, you say that there are various aspects of this being dealt with by the Regions and that the RIZIV is doing so. That's a good thing. I would have liked a more concrete answer, but I understand that this will be concrete in the coming weeks. So I can only encourage you to continue your efforts. I see that you are doing so and are aware of the problem. Perhaps we will come back to that later if it becomes more concrete.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic558x.u60	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is indeed a good thing that you are going for a global approach. That seems to me to be the right approach and I look forward to hearing what the plan will look like. You indicate that the role of midwife is important, partly because of the shorter duration of stay, but also because more and more people opt for home delivery. I look forward to the discussions that you will be holding shortly, and we will come back to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic558x.u61	Minister, Belgium has achieved the UNAIDS 90-90 global target for 2020 and looks well on the way to achieving the 95-95-95 target for 2030. These objectives have been achieved in order to end the HIV pandemic in the end. Nevertheless, the latest figures from Sciensano show that 92 new HIV infections were detected in Belgium in 2019. There are 2.5 per day and it means an increase of 4 % compared to 2018. In addition, more than 17,000 HIV patients were medically monitored, while it is estimated that there are almost 2,000 undiagnosed subjects. In addition to the preventive hatch, an effective screening should be carried out, focusing on reaching the undiagnosed group. They need to be guided towards treatment, as this is crucial to halt the further spread of the virus. Today, thanks to scientific progress, HIV has become a chronic disease and people with HIV can...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic558x.u62	Mr de Caluwe, I was listening very carefully to your question about HIV, but I was specifically asked to be present in plenary. I am afraid that I will have to go to the plenary for an orderly procedure. We have had interesting debates here today, but I suggest you let me leave now.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic558x.u63	Of course, Minister, you cannot be in two places at the same time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic558x.u64	I believe that the plenary should be given priority. If I understand correctly, has your presence been advanced there?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic558x.u65	Minister, if I may, I have made an effort to be here throughout the session. I would be happy to refer to the question that has been put, but I would like you to answer my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic558x.u66	Mr. Secretary, can you stay another 15 minutes?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic558x.u67	If you wish, I can give you the text of my answer, although that is unusual. The same applies to Mr De Caluwe. However, I am afraid that I really have to go to plenary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic558x.u68	I propose that Mr De Caluwe and Mr Creyelman ask their question, even though the Minister is leaving. It is a somewhat strange procedure, but these questions have been formally asked. The Minister will then make available the written version of his reply. The remaining questions will be postponed to 14 September unless members wish to convert them into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic558x.u69	Mr President, I would like to refer to the question that has been put.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic558x.u70	The Minister's reply will be sent to you in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic558x.u71	Mr President, I refer to the question that has been put.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic558x.u72	The Minister's reply will be sent to you in writing.
