ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in view of the European Commission's communication on the infringement of our country, particularly with regard to the independence of the Data Protection Authority – which is not a detail – which is not a matter of governmental competence, but a matter of parliamentary competence, we have introduced a point of order for Rule 54, which calls on our House to give a strong signal of our rapid seizure of this problem. The motion was distributed to all groups. I wanted to take the opportunity of the beginning of the meeting to indicate that a debate on it would take place after Question Time. I can only encourage everyone to vote in favour of this motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u3	Thank you, Mr. Hedebouw. As you say, we will address this subject after the oral questions. Having said that, you are keeping the floor for a first speech addressed to both Mr. From Croo, Prime Minister, to Mr Dermagne, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for the Economy, on the interprofessional agreement (AIP).
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u4	Madam President, ministers, a draft partial agreement is on the table. I am saying a draft partial agreement. It is partial, since, as you know, the great subject of the IPA is the wage standard. You have decided to withdraw it from the IPA and impose the wage freeze of 0.4%, whereas we have seen today, for example, that the turnover of the distribution has increased by 7%. On this side, in any case, there was money to give to the workers. Wages have been blocked. But here, I will discuss the draft agreement a little more in detail, because it is only a project. In fact, I am a little surprised at the very positive qualifiers on the content of the agreement. I will start with the question of the minimum wage. We are told to increase the minimum wage by 76 euros. Ladies and gentlemen, let us be very clear, this is not an increase of EUR 76! This is the comparison with the minimum wage at the age of 18. We have three minimum wages in Belgium. Compared to the minimum wage at 20 years, this is an increase of 14 euros per month. And when you see a little more in detail what the FEB says... you always have to go read what the boss says about an agreement. They're always direct, they're clear to their affiliates. They're not starting to On the minimum wage, they are motivated at the FEB! They say: "Don't worry, with the minimum wage increases so agreed, we also stay below most of the existing sectoral minima." They reassure all the bosses of the country to say not to worry, that almost no one is concerned about this minimum wage. And it's true! For example, women workers in service titles are not involved. You have to say it outside. You know why? In 2026, the minimum wage will be raised to 10.8 euros. Do you know what the minimum wage is in service titles? 11.35 euros. Therefore, the women workers in the service titles will receive nothing more. The workers must be told the truth when the agreements are signed. The second important aspect of the agreement concerns 280 overtime, with 240 of them not subject to recovery and no surcharge. In this way, the 44-hour week is actually introduced in Belgium. Thirdly, the bridge pension goes from 59 years to 60 years. Why do you call that a positive agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u5	Madam President, Prime Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, there is no denying that we took another important step forward on Tuesday morning. After the pensions, after the extra money for care, after the higher social benefits, now also a social agreement with important agreements, especially for minimum wages. Let me make this clear: we all do this in crisis time, while pressure is being exerted on all sides to ignore ordinary workers. And no, that's not easy. The only way to do that is to build trust. That is why, Prime Minister, I find the discourse of some so dangerous. It undermines social dialogue. Your show here every week in the two country languages is beautiful, Mr. Hedebouw, but making a lot of promises and not doing anything is one thing. What I find even worse is that we are undermining an agreement that will make people working for minimum wage victims again. I'll pass for that. Let me be clear, for all the cries and all the objections: for 13 years minimum wages have stopped. There's gotta be another way. The right-wing opposition is angry, you're angry. I assume, Prime Minister, that this will be a balanced agreement. In this balanced agreement, as socialists within the government, we take up responsibility again and again. I therefore attach much more importance to parents such as Abdel yesterday on the Journal, who said what the higher minimum wage would mean for him in concrete terms, how we really make a difference to the decisions made over the past period. Prime Minister, let the agreement also have its effect on people. How will you implement the social agreement? How will you make the social agreement a success?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u6	Madam President, Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I find that with this government, the social partners have been able to reconnect with social dialogue. Today, I want to highlight the huge victory for workers at the minimum wage. This minimum wage had fallen from the median wage for more than thirteen years. It was less than ten euros an hour. An indecent minimum wage for a society that wants to be fairer and fairer. Today we're talking about a 15% increase over the next five years, and that's not nothing. Fifty euros net at each stage are light bills for families, less difficult endings of months and better food. It's life that takes over survival. I would like to stress your unwavering support for social dialogue. You've been able to leave room for negotiation, and stimulate it. You plead today to faithfully implement this agreement. Not only will gross wages increase, but tax measures will further improve purchasing power, allowing the difference between gross and net. Employers will get their hands on it, but the government will also do its part. It is a strong commitment that affirms a priority of this government: to support the most fragile, to reduce insecurity. Minister, enriching the strongest does not benefit the weakest. It's a decoy. On the other hand, fighting poverty, raising the purchasing power of some workers can leverage and offer real opportunities to many more people. You mentioned a first step with 70,000 employees affected by the increase in the interprofessional minimum wage, as well as an effect on sectoral minimum wages. Can you give us concrete perspectives and reassure those who claim today that this increase will only affect a small proportion of workers?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u7	Prime Minister, Minister, the representatives of employers and workers have reached agreement on a number of important issues. Let me begin by reminding you of the broader framework within which this agreement fits: the wage standard, as laid down in the 1996 law, is maintained. This means that wages in our country may increase to the extent that our competitiveness vis-à-vis neighbouring countries is maintained. This is important to enable economic revival after corona. Within this framework, the social partners have reached an agreement. That's very good news. We can spare social unrest and strikes, especially now that we are recovering from this unprecedented crisis. Whoever works will be rewarded, and will be left with more. At the same time, we protect our companies. We are pleased that we have not returned to what has been decided by the Swedish Government before the bridge pension. On the contrary, the minimum age for the SWT goes from 59 to 60 years. The runways for older workers with a heavy occupation, a long career or a firm in difficulty or restructuring will be possible from 55 years of age. Remember, many of them are now becoming disabled. We must try to keep these people active, the runways can help. Work will pay more. This helps the employees with a minimum wage who receive an additional wage increase. So employers' wage costs are not rising, and there will be jobs. I have the following questions to the Minister and the Prime Minister. What reforms will you undertake on the labour market to get more people working and to keep them working longer? I am thinking of the relaxation of night work, more flexibility, the activation of those who are long-term disabled. What's the timing? After the summer, you will organise an employment conference. What would you propose to do there to increase the level of activity of 80% in order to safeguard the financial basis of our social security?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u8	Madam President, Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, this week the social partners, regrettably envious, have shown that social dialogue in our country is alive and well. Whoever works against minimum wage is finally getting better. That is a huge victory for all workers working day and night, but at the end of the month it is difficult to make ends meet. The current government, together with the social partners, is doing what many governments have left behind for us for 13 years. Nearly 150 000 workers benefit directly from raising the minimum wage. I hear this week that there are Members here in the hemisphere who apparently do not like them. I can only observe that there are professional politicians here who are apparently unable to live with people who have to live with hunger wages. Colleagues, extra 150 euros a month means less concern about school bills for a single mother. That amount of 150 euros per month is 20% of the average rental price for an apartment. For young people starting up, that amount is a world of difference. That extra 150 euros per month is the difference between keeping the head above water or going down. The current government gives those people breathing space and rewards the people who work. Ladies and gentlemen, we continue to set the bar high. Raising the minimum wage has always been part of the deal for us. We remain on the barricades to ensure that every citizen in this country has a decent income. Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, we hope that the social partners will approve the agreement. We ask the government to do everything in its power to implement the agreement as far as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u9	Prime Minister, our trade unions and our employers' organizations behave like drunk uncles, they go on a café, give a tour of the générale and let the waiter pay the bill. Who's in this waiter? That is the Vivaldi government, or, in other words, the taxpayer. There are 1,372,000 inactive people in this country aged between 25 and 65. You say that you want to increase the rate of effectiveness to 80 % while in Brussels it is currently only 61 %. But what do you do next? You're gonna get more people out of the labour market. Of course, you're not talking about the bridge pension because that's a sacred house. However, you will arrive with a surrogate, you will expand the runways. The cost of these landing jobs is already 200 million a year and we do not even know how high these costs are going to be. However, it will be more. We have 1,372,000 inactive people and yet we are going to remove people from the labour market. I don't know any company that doesn't look for people, none. People can't even be found in the catering industry to keep the terraces open. I'll get to the labour cost handicap. In terms of average wage costs, we are in third place in Europe. As far as the lowest minimum wages are concerned, we are the third best paid throughout Europe. The problem, as you know, is not the net wage, the problem lies with the greedy government which makes the employer pay 3 euros so that the employee would have 1 euro left. That's the problem. It's not new, by the way. Since 1993, the trade unions and employers' organizations have concluded social agreements and the costs continue to be borne by the taxpayer. Mr. Prime Minister, when is this party gonna end? I will explain to you in my reply what the solution is.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u10	Prime Minister De Croo, if your government approves the current interprofessional agreement, you will turn the clock back hopelessly. This is particularly regrettable for the future of our labour market, our social security and the tax burden in this country. Older workers get the message that with all their knowledge and experience from the age of 55 they are no longer needed. I think that is a very harsh message. You may think that you are showing solidarity with young people who are short-lived in search of a job, because their minimum wage will increase. However, what you are not telling us is that fewer and fewer young people will find a job, just because gross wage costs do increase. The relaxation of the bridge pension, new wage subsidies and the easing of the runway are all measures that will increase benefits and reduce the number of people working, just when Flanders is struggling with an unbelievably tight labour market. We need everyone to secure the prosperity and well-being of ourselves and our children. Of course, more benefits and more subsidies always come with an invoice. I'm afraid your government's bill will end up with future generations. Of course, we give people a higher net wage, but the question is and of course remains how you want to do it. Will you save on your own government and bet heavily on activation, as we have done together with the Michael I government, or will you, as it now looks like, split new, additional taxes into the stomach of.... let us be honest.. the Flemish taxpayer?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u11	Prime Minister, social consultation is working in Belgium: low wages will rise. It is with great satisfaction that, on Tuesday, I read that an agreement had been reached; first of all, I want to show my respect for those who have borne the voice of workers and employers and who have reached this agreement. Of course, it does not yet involve the parties since it must be validated by the bodies, but social consultation works, despite the difficult context - the corona crisis, the 1996 law as amended in 2017. I note that it was also thanks to the elements put on the table by the government that this agreement was reached. Your government has taken its responsibilities to find a concerted balance, and that is what we asked of it. This is a break from previous governments, and our group appreciates the importance of it. I would stress one aspect of this agreement: the minimum wage will therefore rise. Thirteen years! Thirteen years that many social workers, in the Horeca - perhaps the person who sold you your sandwich at lunchtime, perhaps the temporary worker who sweeps the yard at the end of the street -, thirteen years that those who hold jobs often invisible to the eyes of some await an increase in wages. Since 2008, nothing had happened for minimum wages. There's 70,000 of them. Now, these 70,000 workers will receive higher wages. And this is only a first step, since salaries in the upper tranche will follow up to 150 euros in addition per month. Prime Minister, can you clarify how this agreement, which is essential for each of these families, will be implemented? This Government is therefore putting resources at the service of social justice by assuming its share of the costs of these measures. Prime Minister, you announced around October 1 that this government was the greenest and most social government in a long time. I welcome the fact that this government is giving itself the means of its social ambitions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u12	Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, good news: after many weeks of negotiations, parties and unions agreed on a series of issues. In addition to the agreement on the "well-being" envelope, which can finally be implemented as from 1 July next year, there is also the maintenance of the wage standard at 0.4 %, in addition to the 2.8% automatic indexation and the award of the Corona premium, fixed at a maximum net amount of EUR 500. At the same time, the G10 agreed on a gradual revalorisation of minimum wages between 2022 and 2028, i.e. purchasing power which is ultimately increased by 150 euros. Better pay for work is essential for us. An agreement also on the end-of-career arrangements for workers over 55 years of age, without affecting the scheme of unemployment with additional business (RCC). It is indeed imperative to keep active workers as long as possible, while taking into account their remaining capacities. An agreement on the harmonisation of supplementary pensions, between workers and employees, postponed from 2025 to 2030, but with a balanced future care between workers and employers. And to note, Prime Minister, that employers and unions demand a tax standstill on the second pillar of pension, and guaranteed performance guarantees. Finally, an agreement on extending voluntary overtime from 120 to 240 hours to support all sectors until the end of 2022. Mr Prime Minister, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, all of the measures we consider, in the end, to be perfectly balanced, which will both restore purchasing power to workers and safeguard the competitiveness of our businesses and boost our growth. Like you, I welcome the balance of this agreement, which will undoubtedly ensure social peace for the years to come and the subsequent negotiations with serenity. However, there are still outstanding issues. The government must now evaluate these various measures. What schedule have you set? How do you plan to effectively combine this (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u13	Your time has expired, Mr Bombled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your questions which I will answer with Deputy Prime Minister Pierre-Yves Dermagne. As is often the case under a social agreement, it is equally criticized on both sides of the political spectrum. As Mrs Vanrobaeys has said, this means that what has been decided is a balanced agreement and, by definition, a social agreement must be a balanced agreement. Otherwise, it wouldn't be a good deal. In this case, I think that is the case for the IPA. Let's take a few steps back. The wage standard set at 0.4% and naturally reinforced indexation gives the possibility to increase wages up to 3.2%. Increasing wages for people who work, who operate our economy but who also safeguard our competitiveness, this balance between purchasing power and competitiveness. It is an important part of the economic and social system in our country. There is also an agreement on the welfare envelope that will increase. I am thinking, among other things, of minimum pensions. Companies that have performed have the possibility to grant up to 500 euros of premium to workers who have made them operate in a difficult context. This week, some important elements were added: the extension of the harmonisation period for the second pillar and the maintenance of the tax system in this area, the increase in overtime and tax benefits. This is a good thing for both companies and workers. At least as important is that agreements made in the past concerning the SWT are maintained. There are no changes to the rules applicable to the SWT. However, we have made it possible for long-term workers, heavy-duty workers and workers in firms in restructuring or in difficulty to ensure that they are not pushed aside with the message that they cannot be started, but that they can continue to work, with a form of flexibility that will enable them to continue to be part of the labour market. That is absolutely justifiable at the moment, and we are doing so through the runway system. Questions were raised about the minimum wage scheme. We do this step by step, in 2022, in 2024 and in 2026. But we will ensure that the cost remains lower than the cost applicable in Germany. This way we ensure that we have no competitive disadvantage or job destruction. We are talking about people who work very hard and who often get a modest wage for that. Is it left or right now to ensure that these people can move forward? I hope that nobody here is going to say that wages can go forward but that for 13 years those wages have not been able to enjoy the progress, the prosperity. That's not the left, that's not the right, it's just good policy to do that right now. This agreement is an agreement in which everyone makes an effort. Workers make an effort, employers make an effort and the government also makes an effort. In an agreement where everyone makes an effort, one may get what one needs most today: economic stability, social peace. There is a reason why business confidence and consumer confidence have been at the highest level today since 2007. Business confidence and consumer confidence have not been as high as today since 2007 and at a time when economic uncertainty can be said to be particularly high. Why is that trust so great? That confidence is so great because it has been understood that we have an approach to cooperation, find an approach to agreements and that we are moving away from the urge for polarisation and conflict. At the moment polarization and conflict would dampen confidence. That confidence reflects in the agreement that has been made, an agreement that reflects that there is peace in our country to be able to rebuild. That is, in the end, the essence of what the government wanted to achieve.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your various questions, questions, remarks or criticism. We are particularly pleased that the social partners have been able to conclude this agreement. This shows that social dialogue in our country still works, when we give ourselves the time and the means to do so. It works in difficult times, such as the crisis we are going through, even if we come out of it slowly. It bodes well for tackling all the challenges of today, which are also the challenges of tomorrow, and for implementing the structural reforms that this country needs. We will need the social partners to carry out this work both for structural reforms on the labour market and for the reform of the pension system, as part of the annual employment conference to be held in September. This is a balanced agreement and I would like to make two points. First, there is the increase in the minimum wage between professionals, which had not increased since 2008. With this agreement, this salary will increase by 150 net euros per month in addition to indexation by 2028. I would have liked this minimum wage to increase even more but it is an important step in the right direction and we are not going to squander our satisfaction. Second, there is the extension of the existing CLCs on pre-pensions. Older workers who have worked for a long time, are ill or have worked hard will be able to benefit from unemployment with a supplement paid by their employer. I also welcome in this section the fact that workers will be able to benefit from end-of-career employment at the age of 55 instead of 57 today. This will make it possible to soften the difficult career ends for those who have given everything, for those who are experiencing difficulties. This will, above all, ensure that these workers remain at work in good conditions. You are asking us about the cost of the agreement for the State. Yes, the agreement will indeed entail costs, and, yes, social security and the State will bear part of those costs. You may be surprised that I am satisfied with that. I am pleased that minimum wages will increase and I am prepared to appeal to the solidarity of all Belgians for this. [[Objection]] I am convinced that the small employers who often employ low-paid workers would find this increase difficult to bear. Then we would have had no agreement to raise the minimum wage. For me there are no losers in the agreement, but there is a clear winner, namely the workers. I will also comment on the sorrowful minds among you who felt that the increase in the minimum wage would destroy jobs. No study, here or abroad, attests to this – only the contrary! This measure increases domestic consumption, as we have seen during the recovery between the two waves. Domestic consumption has supported the recovery of our economy, and this will still be the case in the coming quarters. Such an increase is also important for the purchasing power of workers. Finally, I would like to address Mr Hedebouw and his party, the PTB, and assure them of my pride in the agreement reached on Tuesday at dawn. This agreement, we needed it. When I say "we," Mr. Hedebouw, I'm not talking about the Vivaldi parties and the majority. When I say "we", I am thinking of Belgium and its social model, based on consultation between workers' and employers' representatives. When I say "we", Mr Hedebouw, I am thinking of the 11.6 million Belgians – Flemish, Walloons, Brussels and German-speaking – to whom you want to sell t-shirts with a slogan of unity, while your business base is division – not concord, but discord. Your reaction to this agreement, Mr. Hedebouw, highlights your contradictions. You speak alongside the workers, but you neglect and despise the work done by their representatives to reach this agreement. You say yourself alongside the tired workers, but you ignore the "pre-pension" and "end-of-career" aspects. You say to yourself alongside the poor workers, but you sweep the historical increase in the minimum wage with a backhand. Then, of course, we can always say that the battle to review the 1996 law has not yet been won! So, yes, it can always be argued that the social partners should have gone further, that the minimum wage should have increased much more and that the State will probably pay too much! That being said, Mr. Hedebouw, are you ready to tell Deborah, cashier, that she will not be entitled to her 500 Euro premium? Are you ready to tell Dirk, a 55-year-old worker with back pain, that he will not be able to benefit from an end-of-career arrangement? Are you ready to tell Sarah, that to do this, she will continue to get up in the morning to work in a grocery store by earning less than ten euros gross an hour? Are you ready, Mr. Hedebouw? Not me! I am willing to deliver all the fights for the most fragile workers, but never on their backs and to their detriment. Thank you for your attention. (Applause from the Commission)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u16	Mr Dermagne, we are at the heart of the reasoning that explained the defeats of the left for thirty years. It is in the name of the least ill-founded that 98% of workers in this country have their wages blocked. That you had to make concessions, I can understand, but you defend it as a historic victory! That's the problem! You're not even aware of that. You are constantly talking about 150 euros in addition to the minimum wage. You know that's not true. You know that it's the comparison to the 18-year-old wage and that the 20-year-old wage is worthless. You know that, too! That's amazing! Who pays that? The right always says, "We have to pay the state." That's what the bosses are asking for. What does the FEB say in its answer? I quote: "When, however, the minimum wage should rise, further reductions in the employer's burden can be expected as compensation." Even the little thing that's gone, we're going to have to pay for it. Who asks that? It's the big boss and the right. It is not the workers who ask for this. On overtime, ladies and gentlemen, you are fighting for a reduction in working time. Here, there is an agreement that will require an additional 288 hours per year. The 44-hour week is in this agreement. Stop telling me this is a historic victory! That's not true! It's a defeat!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u17	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answers. I have just said that Mr Hedebouw does quite a show and he is now replicating with a show again. Uncommittal shouting without plan i of course nice for the opposition, but that doesn't help anyone. Mr Minister, I would like to add that we must not stop the historic increase in the minimum wage, because we, together with movement.net, had more demands? This is a first step and that is why I say that the increase in the minimum wage will be regulated and the runways from 55 years old will be regulated. If the agreement in question is implemented, we will also find an arrangement for the end-of-life course, a topic which will be negotiated at the National Employment Conference with a strong role for the social partners in the autumn. Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. Now get to work!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u18	Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. Mr Hedebouw, I will repeat again: this is an increase of 150 euros by 2026! Did you know that? It was unimaginable a year ago. This government makes a difference. Workers today have once again a voice in the field, and particularly the most impoverished. It's a relief for those who get up every day in the morning for less than ten euros an hour and tighten their belts. It is also a realistic but above all a progressive way of reducing the traps to employment: to return to work with a decent wage after a period of unemployment far too long, to work to leave poverty must be obvious. I also think that financing this increase is an investment for the future. This is an agreement and a major step forward for social progress. Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, we will support you in your various steps.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u19	Prime Minister, Minister, thank you for the answers. This social agreement is balanced. They are taking a lot of steps forward. It also brings social peace. I am, of course, pleased that the measure to reduce the burden on labour, especially for the lowest wages, is being continued. Work has to pay and people will get more out of it. Minister, there is now a real need for reforms to get more people working, but above all to keep them working. A very ambitious reform plan will be needed to achieve the employment rate targets. We are absolutely aware of this. I am also, of course, looking forward to the employment conference and the content of the reforms announced on the labour market. We will follow up on this, because this is extremely important for our economy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u20	Colleagues, to whom Vivaldi claims to be only good at overcoming the corona crisis, we are showing the opposite with the social partners today. Higher pensions, higher benefits, wages rising by a maximum of 0.4% on top of the index, but also the possibility of a 500 euro consumer cheque. We're finally raising the minimum wage and we're making a softer landing for older workers. The Vivaldi government is showing its social face in the midst of a crisis. It boosts the economy and creates prosperity for the most vulnerable people. Colleagues, we are doing what many have failed to do for us. We are taking measures that are really helping people.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u21	Prime Minister, when I first came to Parliament in the last century, the election item was the unemployment trap, the difference between working and not working. We are now about 25 years later, and the same big problem has still not been solved today. You're a I would like to hear that you want to look at Germany, but our pay handicap compared to Germany is 11%. Belgium is 11% more expensive than Germany. Instead of keeping daddies and wet, you need to do something concrete. Instead of being blackmailed by the socialists, you should do something liberal. It's been a long time. I haven't seen it under this government yet. We must increase the tax-free allowance for the people who work, because with today's minimum wage, Mr Hedebouw... if we have EUR 13,540 net taxable income, we will pay 45% taxes. Do something about that, Prime Minister, rather than messing around in the margins, instead of all those half-socialist measures that have not yet been achieved after a quarter of a century, and then you will be a real liberal again and I will take my hat off.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u22	Mr Prime Minister, after last week, did you plan to come and lie here every week? After all, you're doing it again. In other words, you say that the agreements around the SWT, the bridge pension, remain untouched, while in this agreement the age to which, if you are on a bridge pension, you must remain available for the labour market should be reduced from 65 to 62 years. The retirement age is therefore reduced. That's lie number one. If you really think that more people are getting higher wages, then you do not do so by putting our young people's jobs away from abroad, then you do not do so by putting the 55-plussers in the dirt, then you do not do so by pumping tax money into inactive measures, but then you do so by working on and investing in activating measures. However, it is still waiting for the government's first activating action. You may be able to beat on the chest and think that you have bought the Flemish people's favor with this bribe agreement, but nothing is less true. The Fleming is much smarter than that and has long since realised that he will pay the bill of this agreement double and fat.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u23	Prime Minister, Minister, thank you for your answers. I take note of this, in particular, of the supplementary business unemployment schemes (ERCs) and the end-of-career jobs from the age of 55, which is a particularly positive measure. Indeed, it can be said that it does not go fast enough or far enough. As you know, Minister, every time you want to go one step further in this direction, the Ecolo-Groen Group will be at your side. Work goes on, you said it, and I think so too. To support these social measures, your government must be very careful to finance the state in a fair manner. For example, the plan to combat tax fraud or tax reform to make it fairer and to make a greater contribution according to their means are elements of both tax and social justice, fully linked to current events.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u24	Minister, thank you for the clarification. It is now a question of evaluating these measures. Tax and parafiscal adjustments will be required. The Reform Movement wants ambitious reforms that mobilize useful means, give purchasing power back to all, reforms that keep workers on the labour market for as long as possible, in good conditions, and a tax stand on the second pillar as requested. These are the points that the government must now tackle. This allows me to bounce back on a topical issue, namely the shortage of jobs. If the situation in Flanders is different, the causes are quite different in Brussels and Wallonia. A shortage of jobs while the number of unemployed is increasing is evidence of dysfunction. If the objective is to achieve an employment rate of 80%, employment activation policies, the adequacy of training and the labour market and the fight against job traps will have to be reviewed. It will be a sine qua non and we will be attentive to it!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u25	On March 4th, you took a turn, Prime Minister. You announced here that the government would not only bring the children, but also the so-called IS mothers from Syria to Belgium. This week there was also effective work on this. Yesterday the Minister of Justice could not say what the cost of the whole operation was and he does not yet know how many ISIS gangsters are eligible. He did say that this operation was in the interests of the country's security. That safety argument, supposedly preventing them from disappearing under the radar, is ridiculous. They disappeared here on their own initiative, and they must remain so. That's the safest thing, not to try them here and release them back into society after a ridiculously short prison sentence, as happened with Mrs. Noura Firoud, a bride of two IS fighters. She remained a danger to society, she got five cells here, got out after a few months with an anklet, without any follow-up. After all, there is no staff for that. Prime Minister, the government has conducted trials to bring only the children back, without the mothers. The judge said you were right. Today, this government agrees with the Syrians, those who use the fate of their children to return to the land they have turned their backs on themselves. They are served by you at their beck and call. You say that the return of these mothers will be considered on a case-by-case basis. What are the criteria on which they will be decided whether to return? Is it true that the IS ideology is one of them? How will you assess that in concrete terms? If your reasoning is followed, with that so-called security argument, then is that true for the fathers? Can you guarantee today that in another step you will not bring the men back to this country under the same guise of safety and greater importance of the child? Today, I want you to clearly rule out that this could be a next step.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u26	Madam President, at the beginning of March, the National Security Council confirmed its approach to this issue. This was done in close consultation with our security services. The absolute starting point in this dossier is our national security. It is paramount, together with respect for the principles of democratic rule of law. The decision at that time was based on the deteriorating situation in the camps, where there are particularly serious security concerns. Leaving those kids in a camp today where ISIS is waving, means that we are actually forming tomorrow's terrorists. Both in the interests of our safety and in the interests of the safety and health of those children - children who have not chosen who their parents are, children who have not chosen the choices made by their parents - the National Security Council decided in March to change the approach and bring them back. On the advice of our security services, the maximum age is set at 12 years, a well-founded legal limit that is also used in juvenile law. The situation of mothers is also very worrying at the moment. The situation in the camps is threatening to get out of hand, and then there may be a situation where we lose all control and follow-up. The National Security Council has therefore decided to analyse the situation of the mother's case on a case-by-case basis. Here too, our national security remains the central criterion. Indeed, a consular mission has taken place in order to gather sufficient information. The analysis of that information begins now. Any request for return will be analysed on a case-by-case basis on the basis of three criteria. First of all, the best interests of the child. Secondly, the danger to Belgian public security. Thirdly, the operational implications. Of course, we will also consider what the danger would be if we did not return and what the consequences might be at the time. I would like to remind you, Madam President, that when these women returned here, they were handcuffed at Brussels airport, they were taken to prison, and they were tried if not. I would like to say that the Belgian Justice has fully accepted its responsibility there and that it will continue to assume its full responsibility. A lot of FTFs have been convicted in absentia in our country. Those who have not yet been convicted are today on the international stage for their arrest.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u27	Mr Prime Minister, it is irresponsible for the government to compromise security with its policy. The fact that you are pursuing such an irresponsible policy in the name of security is downright hypocritical. It is significant that, despite my explicit question, you do not even rule out the return of the fathers. You say the kids didn't choose this. That's right. However, we have not chosen for it either, and the victims of the IS-gangsters and Islam terror are even less so. First of all, it is to them that your attention, understanding and compassion should go. For the IS-gangsters it was a conscious choice. They should be tried in the region where they have committed their horrific crimes and not here, not in the country they have turned their backs on, not here in the country they have literally and figuratively stood for life. There is no place for them in this country anymore, Mr. First Minster. Just out of respect for the victims of Islam terror, that should be your attitude. They have still not received proper compensation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u28	Madam President, Prime Minister, Joe Biden's visit to the NATO Summit takes place in a dangerous and disturbing global context. It is a context in which, for economic and strategic purposes, the United States is triggering a "cold war" against China. Just listen to Mr Biden's increasingly aggressive statements, going so far as to say, "America wants to dominate the world again in a position of strength." Mr Biden is coming to Europe to secure the support of European countries, including Belgium, and to set the tone for this war policy. Prime Minister, which side will you choose? Will you choose the American domination strategy? The same United States, which is responsible for the deaths of 1.5 million Iraqis. The same United States, which has spent most of its life waging wars around the world to impose its policies. Or will you choose the peace camp and reach out to countries around the world to work towards a policy of peace and stability? The question is that, Prime Minister. Will you choose the camp of Western imperialism that engages in deadly wars to impose its vision and interests on all corners of the world or will you choose a policy of peace, dialogue and collaboration at the international level?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u29	Mr Boukili, thank you for your question. Indeed, this Sunday evening, Joe Biden will land in Brussels. This is an important moment because it is his first visit to Europe and the first stage takes place in Brussels. After the Trump years when the transatlantic relationship was quite difficult, Mr Biden expressed his intention to re-establish relations with Europe as a cornerstone of his international policy. I think that's a good thing. It is true that the Trump period has also shown us that, as Europeans, we must set our own goals and priorities. If these priorities are aligned between the United States and Europe, it is clear that this Atlantic tandem is an incredible force in the world. If these priorities are not aligned, it is clear that Europe will increasingly have to take control of its future. But the fact that Mr Biden came to talk to us, for example, before visiting Mr Putin in Switzerland, demonstrates his intention to work with Europe. This method of collaboration gives a country such as Belgium, which has always been in favour of working in a collective approach to its security, an opportunity to have greater influence in a world where we have partners. That is ultimately what we are talking about. In a multipolar world like today, with rapid changes in the security sphere, we need partners. The Belgian and European approach has always been to find partners and we welcome Mr Biden's visit, which intends to return to this partnership which is so important for the Americans, but also for Europeans.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u30	Prime Minister, you salute Joe Biden's attitude by comparing it to Donald Trump, it is true that the form may have changed but the background remains the same. Mr. Biden continues to pursue the same aggressive foreign policy as Mr. Trump's. Mr. Biden is increasing military spending. Mr. Biden is investing more and more money to strengthen his military arsenal. I would remind you that today it is the United States that represents a danger to peace. More than a third of the world's military expenditures are made by the Americans. Today, if we are to seek stability and peace in the world, it is not this side that we must choose, because this is the side of war. Look at the history of the United States and all the damage it has caused in the world! Today, it is the Americans who have 800 military bases around the world. Eight hundred! They are the ones who put the world at risk; we must choose the camp of peace, not that of the Americans, in order not to pursue this imperialist policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u31	Madam President, Deputy Prime Minister, there are currently a number of collaborations between SNCB and bpost, particularly in the area of ticket sales or subscriptions, and we welcome this, of course. However, Minister De Sutter announced in committee that bpost was refusing the partnership for the occupation of the buildings left abandoned as a result of your decision not to provide any more windows at the stations. This situation is very damaging. When you closed 44 windows last February, you called for these places to be places of conviviality, sharing and exchange, in particular by soliciting public actors – especially the municipalities –, economic, local or socio-cultural. This situation is of great concern to us, because it is a terrible blow to the goal of making these places a place of life. I would therefore like some clarification in this regard. Why can't this partnership with bpost take place? What is the status of discussions with other potential partners? Could you also give us the reasons for this refusal of bpost and tell us what is the status of negotiations with the other partners?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u32	Madam President, Mrs Matz, thank you for your question. I think we share the same objective. We are committed to accessible, quality and community-based public services throughout the country, including in rural areas. This is precisely the content of our discussions with SNCB, with a view to making the stations live and welcoming. Following the closure of the windows decided by its Board of Directors, I asked SNCB for a series of accompanying measures, which have been validated by the same Board of Directors and are in the process of being implemented. These measures concern in particular the widening of the opening hours of the waiting rooms – which is already effective – a dialogue with associations representing the elderly and the most vulnerable audiences to work on the issue of accessibility and, above all, proactive steps towards the valorisation of the areas released at the station, allowing the reception of new activities at cost to the municipalities and the voluntary sector, with the designation of a contact person responsible for dialogue with the municipal authorities and local actors. This "live stations" operation was launched quickly and continues between SNCB and the municipalities. Numerous discussions are under way with ideas of occupation such as communal services, bicycle points, commercial operators or non-profit organisations. Agreements have even already been concluded with some municipalities. In this same context and at my request, SNCB made contact with bpost. The path of the installation of post offices in some stations has been studied very concretely but has not been successful, as my colleague Petra De Sutter explained yesterday in committee. On the other hand, both companies, bpost and SNCB, continue to discuss the sale of transport tickets at existing post offices in non-window areas. This is an interesting path for accessibility. It's still open. It could allow citizens to get a ticket in living pools where there are no more windows, sometimes for a very long time. My firm regularly follows up with SNCB on the progress of the discussions and the implementation of all these initiatives. We will have an opportunity to take stock of the first results of the operation in the near future. It is also planned that these steps will extend, in a second stage, to stations which have been closed at times many years before. This model of a living station, Mrs Matz, I wish to amplify it and apply it throughout the country. I also aim to include it in SNCB's future public service contract with concrete objectives in terms of reception and passenger services at railway stations, a model which, as a reminder, does not exist in the current management contract which dates back to 2008. As you can see, progress is on track, Mrs. Matz. It just takes a little time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u33	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for these answers. I think you're evacuating the bpost question a little quickly by saying that basically it was one partner like another and that you have other plans. I think it really puts a serious brake on the process. I hope, above all, that this will not be an oil stain vis-à-vis other partners. Nor should these buildings be abandoned, they become a source of insecurity and, in terms of maintenance, they represent an impossible burden to bear. It is a matter of public service, as you said, of sharing places of life. I therefore find it very damaging that an agreement could not be reached. Yet, two strikes would have been made with one stone. Not only were postal access points guaranteed at communes, but abandoned places were also brought to life. I would remind you that it was through the decision of the Board of Directors of SNCB and also by yours that 44 railway stations were closed. In any case, I hope that this will not put a brake on the initiative and I am pleased that this model is included in the future management contract. Thus, it will now be an obligation to ensure that these stations do not become obsolete.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u34	Minister, we have fought it for years, but all this time multinationals have been getting away with tax evasion and avoidance on a massive scale. Profits were parked in tax havens, where no contributions have to be paid, while people have to pay here. That was the practice and it had to end. Now the richest industrialized countries, the G7. They have agreed that corporate profits worldwide must be taxed at least 15%, including by multinationals. Ladies and gentlemen, each part is not a euro too much. That agreement is good news, because it could mean that the race to the bottom, the lure of tax havens and tax competition between countries will finally end. Let's face it, what did we get out of it? Nothing. Who's gonna be happy about that? Those are the big shareholders. Even though they have acquired enormous wealth during the crisis, they are constantly looking for even more tax privileges. Minister, we must get out of this vicious circle. We haven't been able to explain this to all the people, SMEs, self-employed people and companies who do pay the full amount of taxes for years. Fortunately, international understanding has grown that in times of crisis solidarity holds a society right. Solidarity means not only that everyone gets their share, but also that everyone contributes their share. However, Minister, we are not here yet. After all, your colleagues from Ireland and the United Kingdom are trying to cut the legs of the agreement. In our coalition agreement, we have established that we will play a leading role in relation to this minimum international tax, without exceptions. After all, it must not be cheese with holes. Since there is still a lot to be negotiated, I would like to know how you stand with regard to the G7 agreement. What contribution do you think our country should make to help achieve this international tax justice?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u35	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, last weekend there was very important fiscal news: the G7 finally paved the way for a minimum global tax for multinationals. The agreement finally also creates taxation with the increasingly extensive internationalisation and digitisation of companies. The G7 plan follows the work of the OECD. For the pillar-one companies, so the very large companies account for more than 20 billion dollars of turnover and a profit margin of 10% will have to pay taxes in the country where their customers are located. So that really is a revolution for Internet companies, like Facebook. Second pillar companies, i.e. companies with more than 750 million dollars of turnover, will also pay 15% of taxes in the countries where they earn their profits. The creation of a minimum tax is a good thing, and we welcome it. On the one hand, the race to the bottom can finally stop. On the other hand, a multilateral agreement is preferable to all the various national initiatives, which shift and threaten the powers of competence. In recent years, many international initiatives have been taken, such as the BEPS, which have already been translated into Belgian legislation. The G7-deal would be a nice finish, but of course the work is not finished yet. That is why, Minister, I would also like to point out that the agreement will have an important impact, including on the economic sectors in our country, which create a great deal of jobs and secure a lot of investment. The government agreement also obliges the government to ensure the competitiveness of our sectors, which we desperately need. What actions do you intend to take to monitor competitiveness so that investment is guaranteed? Are you also thinking of a realistic impact study, which examines both the tax effects and the effects on future investment?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u36	Madam President, Mr Vandenbroucke, Mrs Verhelst, thank you for your questions. We have indeed made every effort over the last few months to get our families, and certainly our healthy businesses, through the current crisis. That crisis, of course, had losers but also a number of winners. We do not have to take it lightly: many of these winners were often large multinational companies. I'm an economist myself, so I know, of course, that companies have to make a profit. What we cannot accept is that some of those winners barely pay taxes because they set up all kinds of structures to park profits in tax havens. We have to do that and we will do that. That is why it is so positive that the G7 has reached an agreement on this. That is really historic; we are at a turning point in our history. It is therefore a first and important step towards fairer taxation. I therefore hope that the OECD will make the agreement concrete and that we will take further steps. Of course, I will be very happy to cooperate. The G7 agreement focuses on two elements. Firstly, we are talking about taxation of the digital economy. We have said in the government agreement that such an arrangement would preferably be developed at the highest level, at the OECD level or, if necessary, at the European level. The second element concerns this overall minimum tax. Much will depend on the concrete measures. Many parameters are still unclear. Think, among other things, of the rate. Some find a rate of 15% too high, others too low. Of course, it's just a first step in the story. There will also be a great deal of discussion about the definition of the taxable base. Mrs Verhelst, I share your view that the issue is broader than just fair taxation. We need to keep an eye on our competitiveness. We will therefore do everything we can to ensure that it is safe. On the basis of the figures before us today, we cannot make concrete statements or make concrete assessments of the impact of the global tax and the revenue that will be generated by the agreements. I can assure you that the proposed tax is a real step in the fight against tax havens for fair taxation. That's important. I will monitor and defend this at European level, as we agreed in the coalition agreement. As always, when the time comes, I will explain this in more detail in the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u37	Minister, I appreciate your optimism and your will to make a positive contribution to this. Colleagues, when it comes to our competitiveness, countries like ours just benefit from a fair, international, minimal tax on multinationals. After all, we can stop waving billion-dollar tax rebates to lure these companies here. At a global minimum tax we can be competitive with the talents in our labour market, our strength. Then we can continue to invest in the competitiveness of our economy instead of spending money on expensive tax reductions. Minister, do not deviate from the path of the coalition agreement. You have the full support of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats to continue this work.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u38	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I think everyone is pleased that there will be more equitable taxation. I think it is very important to look at the impact of this on our companies. We need to be prepared. We now have time, it is important to map everything carefully now, so that we know what we are deciding and can fully support it. It is certainly important for our investments and our companies, which create jobs. Together, we must continue to work on a strong economy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u39	Minister, 'Tous ensemble against fraud' is what we read in the newspapers this morning. For example, the launch of a major anti-fraud plan. For CD&V, the fight against tax fraud is an important and essential battle. First of all, because it is a fight for more justice. This is not about tax evasion and fraud. Secondly, it is a response to a number of scandals of recent years such as the Panama Papers, LuxLeaks or the FinCEN files, often with accompanying underlying crime. Thirdly, the fight against tax fraud is, of course, cents. Every penny lost to tax fraud must be coughed up by people who pay their taxes fairly. That is why the fight against tax fraud is also clearly included as a priority in the coalition agreement. Through your policy statement it now lands in a major action plan against fraud. There are a number of important things. Firstly, there is a focus on cooperation across all sectors and especially between the Special Tax Inspectorate (BBI) and the court. There is also, of course, a need for concrete action on the ground. Think of making electronic payments possible everywhere, a proposal from Mr Leen Dierick, the modernisation of white checkouts, the control of large yards and so on. Minister, the fight against tax fraud can only be truly successful if it is tackled in its entirety. What your predecessors failed in the previous legislature, you are doing today. You take the lead, along with your colleagues. You take charge of the case and you present a plan. How do you see the further political roll-out and timing of this plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u40	Thank you, Mr Matheï, for bringing this plan to the attention of all my fellow Members. At a time when our society needs and can use all the resources it needs to restore and restore after the crisis, the effective fight against fraud is also an effective and absolute top priority of this government. Today we are putting on the table a broad-based plan to tackle this tax and social fraud. And that is important because fraudsters benefit from our divided approach. Today we are trying to move forward there by joining forces. We now have a plan where we will share information, where we will work together, where we will focus on coordination, where I am convinced that we can actually make three of one plus one, with the people on the ground and with the barriers that we want to remove. One of the key elements of this plan is to remove the historical barriers that exist today between the tax administration and the market. We will therefore remove these barriers in dealing with serious tax-organised fraud, and we will ensure that we can work together quickly and quickly. We know that in other matters such as economic crime, social fraud, environmental crime, there is already very good cooperation between the administrations and the police. We also want to extend this now to the serious tax fraud. So, yeah, we'll get back to it. This is a first coordinated plan, in which everyone has cooperated: the administration, the police and the relevant ministers, because they agree with it. We will now take further steps. We've almost started the layout of the next coordinated plan. All this must help us in our fight against fraud and our search for more justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u41	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The fight against tax fraud is a fight for more justice. That's very important for CD&V. That first plan is a very important part of it. This must now be unfolded on the ground. The plan is there now, but the concrete effect must follow. We already have 100 % confidence that you will carry out that plan carefully, with the same speed and strength you have already shown in other files.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u42	Minister, I wanted to go back to two of the great lessons of crisis management: the shortage of doctors and the dramatic consequences that can result from a postponement of consultations or care for the health of our fellow citizens. Today, instead of responding to these observations, you make them worse. Last Friday's Council of Ministers approved at first reading a draft ministerial decree which authorizes the Wallonia-Brussels Federation to be issued in 2027 50 additional INAMI numbers for medical students who complete their studies, but on a double condition: that the additional numbers are intended only for the first line of care and that a competition – and no longer an entry examination – be set up, as in Flanders. My party is challenging this decision both in substance and in form. In terms of form, if the Federal Government is competent to fix the INAMI quotas, it is up to the Communities to choose how to achieve this. In essence, as if the numerus clausus were not enough, your measure will further limit access to the profession of doctor in a context of shortage that affects generalists and specialists, of ageing of the population but also of exhaustion of the health care staff. Minister, how do you justify your interference with the powers of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation? Were there alternatives to this competition on the table of the Council of Ministers and why were they not selected? How do you explain such a measure in the context of physician shortage and exhaustion? How do you respond to medical students who urge you to review your copy to finally take into account the reality of the field?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u43	Mrs. Rohonyi, I fully agree with you. Let French-speaking Belgium finally do what it wants with that amount of doctors. Let them do what they want, but let them pay for it themselves. That would be a very good idea. Minister, you are going in that direction, except for the last piece, which is nevertheless crucial. After all, you are intelligent. You are waiting for a Consultative Committee before slinking out two KBs in which you are actually just giving a general pardon in a file that has been splitting this country for 25 years. It is right to split it up, because there is a clear federal law in this country which states that the number of doctors should be limited in order to prevent over-consumption in care and to provide quality training. Flanders has been doing this for 25 years. We've always been so good, while French-speaking Belgium hasn't done that for 25 years. Time and time again, at the federal level, people say, "Let them do it. Under the Swedish Government, we have finally reached an agreement to reduce the number of doctors on the other hand, to ensure that there is an entry test that is effective this time and that the imbalance is finally corrected. What are you doing, however? You're just getting a KB with a general's pardon. You're gonna grow the number further. Will you, like Mrs Rohonyi, come forward with the shortage of general practitioners? Please stop doing so, because that is actually an attack on your intelligence, and you know it yourself. The shortage of general practitioners has nothing to do with federal quotas, because it is a Community competence. In any case, the fact that there has never been quotas in French-speaking Belgium has not solved that deficit. You say you have a solution, Mr. Secretary. You will tell me in a moment that you are going to speak to the French-speaking PS Minister of Education, as if they have never thought of that in the last 25 years. My question to you, Minister, is whether you are really so naive or just pretending.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u44	Madam President, Minister, 25 years ago the federal government decided to limit the number of doctors. Flanders immediately made efficient work of this. Thousands of Flemish students were disappointed because they could never start medical studies because we want quality, affordable health care. However, rules in this country do not apply to everyone. We've known that for 25 years. On the French-speaking side, the federal law was not complied with and that Walloon malpractice was rewarded again and again. You are now doing the same with the well-known consequences of the doctor's transfer and overconsumption, which the Fleming then pays for. Even the future quotas have already been opened up in Wallonia. There was never a solution to this, nor did Mr Van Peel, when, four years ago, you called hallelujah three times about the idea that an entrance exam on the French-speaking side would once and for all provide a solution to this dossier. As we predicted, quotas on the French-speaking side will continue to be overstepped, unpunished. Thanks to then Minister De Block, who ignored all the comments of the Council of State for her KB, we have not even had quotas for six bottleneck specialists since last year. Mr Minister, you are now going to use a general pardon to ensure that the donations to doctors who graduate this year are admitted, with the approval of CD&V and Open Vld, even without any guarantee to avoid that in the future. That's incomprehensible. Why do you make the historical skew even bigger instead of getting rid of them? Why don't you start working on a response mechanism right away? However, it is in your coalition agreement. Will you finally enforce a proper filter at the entrance exam on the French-speaking side this summer?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u45	Mr Minister, unlike those before me, I would first like to highlight a series of perfectly objective data, particularly from the Planning Commission. Many communes are in short supply of general practitioners. Let us take only the Walloon figures: 146 communes out of 286 are in this case. There are several months' waiting times to get an appointment with some specialists, for many patients. It's a fact. There are also major difficulties in recruiting specialists in some hospitals, to the extent that private agencies have been working on the streets to organise recruitment courses for specialists abroad. These specialists can also obtain an INAMI number without any limitation. The list of specializations at risk of shortage is clearly identified by the Planning Commission. To mention just a few: geriatrics, medical oncology or psychiatry are included, and there are others. Finally, it is necessary to take account of changing needs, including the increase or even explosion of chronic diseases or the ageing of the population. The press refers to an agreement on a draft adopted at first reading and sent to the Council of State. But the content looks particularly nebulous, and even more so since I heard each other speak on the subject. We don't have the impression that they were the same parties around your government's table. What is fundamental to me, minister, is not whether it is Dutch-speaking or French-speaking people who will win. I hope, in this regard, that as Minister of Health you will be able to share my point of view. What is fundamental to me is the patients; it is to organize the care by guaranteeing the quality of the care and to have enough well-trained doctors. Minister, what is the content of this agreement within the government? Are you going to make your agreement not on political elements but on objective bases of public health, and thinking first of all about patients? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u46	The Council of Ministers approved two draft royal decrees at first reading. These drafts are based on the opinions of the Planning Committee. I would like to highlight four important signals which appear in the opinions of the Planning Committee. First, the covid crisis and the impact of possible future pandemics are taken into account – and must be taken into account. As a result, the members of the Planning Commission decided to intervene in response to the clear indications of shortages they received from the field, particularly with regard to front-line health care. This is why they recommend increasing the number of general practitioners. Secondly, in order to eliminate the number of jobs and to grant internships, the Planning Committee states that we should give priority to specialities for which bottlenecks exist. At the top of the list are the general practitioners, the psychiatrists, the children's psychiatrists and the geriatrics. This is a very important signal. Thirdly, the Planning Commission has updated and refined its methodology to take account of the mobility and inactivity of doctors within INAMI. Fourthly, the Planning Committee insists on the organisation of a competition on the French-speaking side. These are all sensitive issues that have indeed not been resolved by successive governments, including the previous ones. These drafts were adopted at first reading. The agreement is that I will negotiate it with the Communities. In this sense, these are not final decisions, but there is negotiation matter. In the same way, I will also negotiate the creation of an interfederal structure that will ensure unity in action and real convergence in ideas and also in the practice of planning.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u47	Minister, I thank you for your answers, even if I do not get anything from them. I would like to go back to findings that are unappealable and result from practice. First, there is the difficulty for patients to get a doctor's appointment on time, which exposes them to an increased risk of medical complications, hospitalization and sometimes incapacity for work. It is also known that the burn out is looking for doctors and medical students and that it puts patients at risk. Minister, these findings oblige you today to objective the workload of doctors. Instead, you reinforce the dogmatic and Community approach to INAMI quotas, which galvanizes nationalist parties in disregard of common sense. What have the experts and representatives of the sector told us in special committee covid-19? They told us that the shortage of doctors affected all communities in the country! Therefore, I urge you to urgently review your copy and ministerial order for the benefit of current and future physicians as well as their patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u48	Minister, it's a tactic like another: nothing can be said, so the press can't jump on it. You may be able to do the same. I also noticed that CD&V did not give a warm applause after your answer. I understand that, because this is pretty much the last trophy the party still had in the coalition agreement, and this one is gone too. CD&V had been registered in the coalition agreement. I'd like to see what's left of that. Minister, you say there was no agreement. I think so. In fact, I believe there is a law. You'd like to change that law, but then you'll find me a difficult opponent. What are you doing, Minister? You try to bury the file quietly, away from the media, and just give in to everything and everyone. The Planning Committee is not a scientific committee but a political committee. You know that, too. The fact that that committee dares to involve COOVID-19 as if the graduation of doctors within 7 years will solve this crisis and as if there was a shortage of doctors is just laughable. The same Planning Committee once decided that French speakers need more doctors because they work a lot less there. As a result, I am no longer in favour of anything.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u49	Minister, you are hiding behind a number of signals from the Planning Committee that we know is using methodologies to make overconsumption possible. Next up, it's amazing. First, the corona crisis is abused to put a government in the saddle against the election results. This crisis is now being abused in order not to comply with the quotas which have been imposed on themselves and yet to approve others with general pardons. However, it is very simple, Minister. Rules are there for everyone. If the French-speaking people do not want to follow these rules and pursue their own policies, they must do so. But be consistent: split social security, transfer the full competence of health care to the Länder, then they can pursue their own policies and pay for their own consequences.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u50	Mr Minister, if I understand correctly, it is the Communities that now have the levers to determine quotas. In any case, on the francophone side, I mean the figure of 50. Let me tell you that it will take a lot more. Otherwise, we will continue to have to import European doctors and dentists. Of course, the French Community has exceeded its quotas. However, the Flemish Community itself has announced that, for reasons of shortage, it should unilaterally increase its own. I totally understand that. In my view, this demonstrates the need to get out of this eminently community-based debate, which is based on bad reasons. Make an agreement that is not political and that is not based on keys that are meaningless! Base it on public health criteria, in favor of patients, also thinking about our young doctors who cannot keep a sword of Damocles above the head at the end of their studies!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u51	Madam President, Minister, the grunt goes up to hospitals. However, the nurses in the intensive care and emergency services at the Erasmus Hospital were on strike. I really understand their anger. Promises have been made to all hospital caregivers, promises that are still very publicized: "You will have 50 to 100 euros of gross wage increase per month thanks to this famous IFIC wage model." While nurses and caregivers are being upgraded with this new IFIC model, others are losing. This can represent a loss of tens of thousands of euros over their entire professional career, affecting their pension. For example, specialized nurses lose. Don't be surprised, if I may! Because, since March 2018, I have repeatedly called on Minister De Block, and then you yourself, as soon as you install, to relay the problems and negative impacts associated with the application of this new IFIC model. Today, you will reply to me once again that the caregivers already in office can remain in the old wage model. But the new ones, Minister, have no choice! They have an ex officio obligation to be in the new IFIC model. It is totally unacceptable – as I say very strongly here – to plan the salaries of caregivers in this way. The applause and promises of the crisis of the Covid-19 are now far away. Minister, are you going to realize the promises of salary increases for all concerned nurses and hospital caregivers and, by definition, adapt and supplement the IFIC system to ensure that caregivers are not lost or that there are no planed salaries?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u52	Madam President, Minister, specialized and specialty nurses are concerned and dissatisfied with the evolution of the scales, particularly with this new IFIC classification, which refers more to function or activity than to competence and diploma. Therefore, today's entrants, the younger ones, may have a wage advantage, since we have new means. However, for older people and those with specialisation, this is a problem today, and I really think we need to pay attention to it. Indeed, we all know that the nursing profession is in short supply and must be made attractive. Today, it is not tolerable for us to submit specialist nurses to a scale that is totally unfavourable to the current situation. That's not acceptable. I recall that these people have worked a lot in recent years and months and that we have applauded them on a number of occasions. Today, they need recognition. How are you going to reconcile the salary enhancement of the profession – which I believe is part of the government's agenda – with the recognition of specialization and skills development? This is in fact the real issue: we want to ensure quality of care at hospital level, which of course has a bearing on competence and specialization. So, Minister, what contacts do you currently have with the profession to ensure this quality?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u53	Madam Chair, as Mr. Bacquelaine is well aware, the IFIC reform was designed and launched under the previous legislature. The principle of this reform is to pay workers for their job rather than for their diploma. This reform, the initiative of which was taken in 2018, was implemented in agreement with the social partners, therefore with the trade union organisations. At the calendar level, the reform will take effect in two stages; in the private sector, as of 1 July, and in the public sector, by the end of the year, with retroactive effect from 1 July. One of the main objectives is to financially promote the first years of career in order to increase the attractiveness of the profession. Young people must be convinced to enter the profession. This is what needs to be done as a matter of priority. This is an important ratio in the IFIC reform. I would also like to say that the reform of IFIC, in itself, is not aimed at raising wages. This is a revision of the classification of functions. The increase in wages is due to the fact that we are investing 500 million euros to raise wages. We have always said that, on average, this means a structural increase in purchasing power of 6%. I'm not used to making promises lightly. I never said that everyone would have a 6% increase! Mrs Fonck, I am quite specific in what I am saying in general! Next, it should be noted that no one is obliged to enter the IFIC model. By July 1, nurses must choose whether to opt for the IFIC model or whether to stay in the old system. So whoever realizes that he's losing in the simulation can just decide to stay in the current system. I come to another important aspect. If, at some point, the social partners decide to adapt the IFIC system to the point that it would be more advantageous for them, they will always be able to decide to join it. In conclusion, no one loses in this reform. Of course, we are changing things in the long run – this is what we call reform. I myself have met with professional associations and trade unions. These exchanges were constructive – and discussions on attractiveness will continue. We're working on it. However, I would like to ask you to distinguish between an investment of half a billion, which is intended to raise wages on average, and a new job classification vehicle, where it has been deliberately made clear that it is up to young people to find this job and occupation that is more attractive. Of course, we must take into account all categories of workers – and we are taking care of them – but we still have to keep in mind the real priorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u54	Minister, I invite you to read about the salary evolution sheets of the nurses concerned. During their career, they will suffer a loss of wages, i.e., a planed salary. Then you say you didn't promise that everyone would benefit from an increase. First of all, this is not what has been announced by each other. That being the case, let us even admit that you said that this increase would not be general, does it mean that you condone that nurses – in particular, specialized nurses – see their wages cut and that you find no problem there? For my part, I do not share your position at all. Minister, the IFIC system...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u55	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u56	So go see their salary slip! Go see the modeling! See what it means to lose your salary! When you lose ten thousand euros during your career, it's not an invention on my part, it's the numbers! The IFIC device must be completed. Governments have clearly still not understood that it is necessary to increase the attractiveness of the trade with pay, a challenge of overtime but also with recognition (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u57	Minister, I hear your answer very well. In fact, nurses will be able to choose whether they enter the new scale or stay in the old one. But in order for this freedom of choice to be true, they obviously need to know what is waiting for them if they decide to stay in the current scale. This is the whole issue of negotiation which I believe you must have in order to guarantee that specialisation bonuses and the possibility of valuing their diplomas or skills will be maintained if they remain in the old scale. We cannot impose a choice that is filled with uncertainty. I therefore feel that it is really necessary to provide certain guarantees, just as it is necessary, on a more general level, to maintain an incentive to specialisation and to acquire skills, because that is what also makes the quality of care. We always have to go up, level up instead.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u58	Madam President, Minister, almost 25,000 children and young people are suffering from dark thoughts and are asking for help for their suicidal thoughts, their depressions and their fears. One of them was the 14-year-old girl who committed an act of desperation last month after gang rape and cyber violence. We must not forget her. She, too, had asked for help, along with her parents. But she had to wait. Can you imagine waiting six months after a road accident? For a prosperous country, this is actually poignant, and a disgrace. We know from research, including the recent OECD report, that more capacity is needed. The States-General of the Mental Health Services has also said so this week. We've known that for a long time. More active substances are needed. We're gonna need more staff. 40 % of psychologists and 60 % of psychiatrists indicate that they no longer allow anyone in these corona times. You have already taken some measures, including the mobile crisis teams, which seek young people and elderly people with acute psychological problems at home. You also provided for a budget of EUR 20 million for increased capacity in child and youth psychiatry. But there's more to it. We need more than patchwork. We don't need Band-Aids, but we need a heavy paradigmashift, a major operation. Last year CD&V already approved a resolution for more accessible, affordable and proactive first-line psychological care. It is important that we prevent better than cure. It is very important that children and young people under the age of 21 are treated with mild psychological complaints so that these complaints do not develop into serious psychiatric problems. You have also received the necessary resources, EUR 200 million, of which EUR 112 million for first-line psychological care. My questions are therefore very simple. What progress has been made with the reorganisation of mental health care for affordable, accessible first-line psychological care? What will happen to the EUR 200 million foreseen?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u59	Madam President, Mrs Van Hoof, I am going to answer with figures. I do that with a little bit of hesitation, because it's hard to answer numbers to so many personal tragedies. I fully agree with you, the lack of capacity, the lack of rapid reception, the lack of first-line facilities is a historic scandal. Unfortunately, I am going to answer with figures, but let us think of the many children and young people who are having a hard time. The government provides for an additional EUR 200 million for mental health care. That's very important. Of this EUR 200 million, EUR 122.5 million goes towards strengthening mental health care in primary care. We have very intensive and thorough discussions on this, which have been going on for many months. At present, this has resulted in a kind of principle-based consensus on a very innovative vision of how to tackle first-line psychological support in the field. I hope that in the next few weeks I will be able to work out the financial mechanisms to support primary care. I hope that, over the next few weeks, we will have a real breakthrough in realising this completely and that we will be able to indicate how we will use this EUR 122.5 million. Of the 200 million euros, 42 million euros have been added to the strengthening of mobile shifts in specialised second-line care, targeting both the elderly and children. I have also taken a few additional measures because I had the opportunity to do so in the hospital budget, on top of that EUR 200 million. I'm gonna finish this. More than 100 additional full-time equivalents can be recruited in the mobile teams for children and young people who are moving out. I believe that today some 100 additional people are already active in the field of mobile crisis intervention for children and young people. That seems important to me. Then we took a temporary measure, which makes it possible to build bridge functions in hospitals from psychiatry and psychiatry to other services, the emergency service but also the psychiatry service. This allows to create 170 additional places, although temporarily. Compared to the existing places for psychiatry of children, this is an increase in capacity in hospitals by a quarter. We're rolling this out right now, but it's a very important effort. In addition, I provide structuralally and permanently the necessary means to intensify care in children's psychiatry but also to be able to work 'outreaching' from the hospitals to the grounds. These are 212 full-time equivalents to additional staff. This is how I get to a roll-out effort of tens of millions of euros. To be honest, I am somewhat surprised that you mentioned EUR 20 million because I am talking about much more money. Moreover, there are still budgetary possibilities to take additional initiatives. I repeat that the number of places in child psychiatry has increased by a quarter, albeit temporarily.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u60	Minister, your speaking time has expired.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u61	In addition, 212 full-time equivalents are added to staff, in order to intensify care in hospitals, especially 'outreaching'. In addition, there are already 100 full-time equivalents on the ground today in the mobile crisis teams for children and young people. So we're working. You do not hear me saying that it is all fantastic, but efforts are being made.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u62	I know the subject is very important, but too much is too much.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u63	Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensive answer. In mental health, code red currently applies. You say that a lot of efforts are being made and you also announce a breakthrough in the reorganisation of mental health care. We need to know where we stand because today, 6% of the healthcare budget is spent on mental health. That is actually far too little, according to the OECD it should be 10%. I was just talking about the EUR 200 million and you were talking about additional resources, and we can only be happy about that, but in fact it is still a hot record. I know you're dragging a legacy from the past, but this government needs to step up, people expect it to be a government that has an eye for the most vulnerable. We need to work on that. It is unacceptable that a child suffering from anxiety, depression or suicidal problems should wait six months. I therefore hope that this government will make effective progress so that we can deal with everyone with serious problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u64	Madam President, Minister, on the first few days of June with full sunshine, yesterday the first day of relaxation of the corona measures will bring out the sun beaters. Then I don't mean the families with kids who want to enjoy the sun, but those who come out to knock each other off in the sun. Unfortunately, for the umpteenth time the Blaarmeersen in Ghent was the battlefield. Madam Secretary, I urge you to call a cat a cat. Let's stop saying that they're young people, hang-young people, Brussels craps who don't know what to do in their spare time. No, it's allochtoon scum sinking into recreational areas to put the place on stilts. They have no respect for the material. They have no respect for the people there. They have no respect for authority. Madam Secretary, I admit it is a shared responsibility. The responsibility lies with the local authorities, but at least as much responsibility lies with you as the Minister of the Interior. After all, it is not a new phenomenon. It's a recurring phenomenon. Almost every year around the same period, the Committee on Home Affairs, Security, Migration and Administrative Affairs should be convened to discuss irregularities, fights of immigrant scum on our coast and in various recreational areas. Hopefully this is the last time this year. I therefore call on you to take drastic measures. My question is clear, clear and clear: what measures will you take to avoid such events in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u65	Madam Minister, yesterday was day 1 that was allowed to swim in the Blaarmeersen and it was once again that: a gang of young people from Brussels came to kick ass, resulting in fights. Unfortunately, there were two wounded. Unfortunately I am also not surprised by this with many other Gentenars. Last summer we had a lot of incidents in the Blaarmeersen. In April, we put forward very concrete proposals to take measures to prevent us from experiencing this phenomenon again this summer. Mayor De Clercq apparently didn't think that was necessary. It was laughed away, it was exaggerated, we didn't know what we were talking about and so on. That is a pity for the people who want to enjoy the recreation area with their family, with their friends, with their family. It has already been mentioned: the problem goes far beyond the Blaarmeersen alone. Year after year we see the same in different recreational areas. Mr Metsu has therefore drawn up a very concrete proposal, which was adopted in plenary last July. It provides for the prohibition of access to a particular recreational area by amockers who have received a ban on entry or access to a particular recreational area. The question was to be able to work with a blacklist. The text I have here shows that you yourself announced in January this year that you would like to make work on a harder approach to ammo makers on recreational areas and beaches. You said that by the summer of 2021 you would go to the Council of Ministers with a concrete preliminary draft law. It's summer 2021 now, but we haven't seen anything yet. When do you come up with concrete measures?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u66	Madam President, summer is indeed at the door. This is certainly the period after months of strict rules in which families with young children want to go outside, in which young people from the city seek refreshment and in which people want to meet. We have to give each other that freedom. That is why we cannot accept any distortion of the regained freedom, even in recreational areas and in tourist places. Firstly, I have a great deal of confidence in the local authorities, the local police and the operators of the recreational areas, to manage this and to take appropriate measures where possible. They obviously have my support for this. Mrs Van Bossuyt, you referred quite explicitly to Ghent. Of course, you will not fail to put the issue back on the political agenda in Ghent. The information available on yesterday's events shows in any case that the local Ghent police responded quickly to the incidents. As a result of this action, two amokmakers could already be held administratively. In the coming days, efforts will also be made to identify, prosecute and punish as many interested parties as possible on the basis of CCTV, as well as other information and evidence. In addition, the Ghent police are in contact with a number of Brussels areas, to investigate the involvement of young people from Brussels and to exchange information. Let me be clear. Young people who are specially descending to a recreation area to look up the confrontation have no place there. Mr. Depoostere, you're using pretty harsh words. I haven't heard any solutions from you. In any case, we have not been idle in the meantime and have been working on solutions. Nor have we been waiting for the incidents in question. I had indeed said that we would take initiatives by the coming summer, which we have also done. We learned lessons from the facts and incidents of last summer. As you know, I am working on an effective application and adaptation of the place ban, as well as on the updating of a 2006 circular on nuisance in recreational areas. In any case, in this way, we want to strengthen the capacity and action of local authorities to act. We did that, too. We will explain a number of measures in the circular and explain them to the managers of the recreational areas. To this end, we have also been in contact with and conducted a survey of the local authorities, the mayors and the recreational areas themselves in order to have a very good image and to be able to incorporate them in the debrief. The amended and updated circular will be published before next summer. The letter will contain both a preventive and a repressive part, in order to avoid the nuisance by means of an integrated approach. For me, it goes without saying that we must also continue to work on prevention. The circular will explain the role of each competent local authority and of the managers of the recreational areas. The letter will also encourage cooperation between local authorities and operators and will highlight the various possible preventive and repressive measures that can be taken. I am thinking, for example, of park regulations, where people can work with blacklists, as the city of Ghent decided today. The involvement and training of staff will also be used to be very effective, but also by different security actors in order to avoid worse. Moreover, physical and technical security is also provided, which apparently was again at issue yesterday in Ghent. In the context of repressive measures, municipal administrative sanctions are also envisaged to ensure that ammo makers are put in place. As announced, I have also spoken with the police and will work on sharing the data on the ban on places in the general national database so that each police area can consult them, look them up and follow the ban on places more closely on that basis. This general national database will also be updated by the summer so that the necessary measures can be implemented by then. I conclude with the observation that the summer is everyone's. After months of fighting against the virus, we cannot accept another battle being waged in recreational areas and in tourist places. I've already done the necessary work.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u67	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. At first, I thought you'd transfer all the responsibility to the operators and local authorities, but the good news came to the end. I am pleased that this general national database, which we have been asking for years, is finally coming, preferably as soon as possible, before the summer of 2021. Madam Minister, I said earlier that the Blaarlemers are not an isolated case. There have also been cases in Brakel, where someone was stabbed, in Hofstade, on the coast, in De Ster in Sint-Niklaas. I believe that drastic action is needed. I will end with an appeal to the police to do their job and, even if it may be a taboo for the purple-green government, to be able to profile ethnically. That is where the problem lies in this government: it is a taboo in this government. Well, I think it's a need to tackle the problem, a need many, many citizens are waiting for, many inhabitants, many Flemings who want to enjoy summer days this summer and do not want to see their holidays ruined (...).
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u68	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. The only thing I am still hungry about is that you are announcing various measures by the summer of 2021, while today is already 10 June and the summer starts on 21 June. I therefore hope that it will quickly become very concrete. The owners of the recreational areas are also very interested in this. Just before I came to the Chamber, I heard the measures which Ghent mayor Mathias De Clercq is now announcing. He has a lot of tough talk, because the measures he announces are exactly the same as those we proposed in April. Then he laughed at them because he thought they were excessive, while he now announces them with a lot of tough talk. He would have acted better then. I therefore hope that in the foreseeable future we will not have to stand back here and say the same thing about you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u69	Secretary of State, since 23 May, several hundred undocumented people occupying the ULB, the VUB and the Béguinage Church in Brussels have started a hunger strike. They have been present for five, ten or even twenty years. They participate in the life of our country, whether through their work, their social engagement in their neighbourhoods or in the schools that their children attend. Because their administrative situation is what it is, these people are deprived of rights and plunged into despair. They work, but they are at the mercy of exploitation. They are sometimes trained in areas of shortage such as the building or the medical field, but they do not have access to health care. Their children go to school with ours. They live in the midst of us, with us, but they have no access to justice, no vaccination, no security. In a word, they do not have access to dignity. It is this despair and lack of horizon that these people choose to put their lives in danger so that their situation is taken into consideration today. Secretary of State, we do not share the choice of means, but we share their distress. The situation is that of a health emergency and the challenge is to find a quick way out to prevent tomorrow from an irrecoverable tragedy. Mr Secretary of State, what dialogue did you have with the undocumented people involved in this hunger strike? What steps are you taking to prevent a tragically irreversible situation from occurring? Have you initiated an evaluation process of each file individually in the emergency to search for a response or solution path?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u70	Mr Rigot, thank you for your question. You are quite right to say that this is a situation of distress, a situation that is not the best. You have to try to listen, understand and explain. You asked me where I was in the dialogue. There was one, and we're after him. We had one with the Coordination of Undocumented Persons, with the Union of Undocumented Persons for Regularization. We had an interview at the firm, Cultureghem (Anderlecht slaughterhouse) and VUB. We've had discussions with academics and people who are on a hunger strike right now. Understanding their demands and expectations is important. We must understand, we must listen and at the same time we must also explain what the policy is in relation to these people. It should be noted that the current legislation provides for different procedures for legal migration for students, for persons who come to work, for family reunification, the asylum procedure, etc. The humanitarian regularisation procedure is part of the migration dispute as an exception procedure. Only persons who are not eligible for residence on one of the existing legal routes of migration may obtain a residence permit on the basis of humanitarian regularisation if there is an exceptional humanitarian situation. We listened to the requests. There are several of them. Some are important, such as the fact that a person waits far too long, two years or three years, before getting an answer. That cannot be the case. This is why the workforce is being strengthened and we want to ensure that each person receives a faster response. Other people apply for regularization and should not do so because they have a right of residence. We are talking about stateless persons, people who have no right of residence in any country. We're talking about parents whose children have a residence permit. I'm thinking about those little girls who have a right of residence because there's a risk of genital mutilation. Parents must apply for regularization. That should not be the case. This is one of the demands that we take into account and for which we are going to take the necessary steps. Finally, there is still a very important element in my eyes. There's listening, but there's a job to do in the field. Each file must be looked at individually, on a case-by-case basis, as quickly as possible, but we are in an exceptional situation. I would like to ask the whole House, all political parties, to do the necessary educational work about people who are in a complicated situation. The hunger strike can never be an answer. I'm worried that people have started the strike. I hope we get out as soon as possible. This can only be achieved if, together, we mention precisely the regularisation procedures and the way in which they can be used. If we don't all do it together, this little flame used by some people will create an air call and, as a result, we will face bigger problems. As politicians, we have a role to play: to establish correct rules and procedures and to ensure that society follows them so as not to leave false hopes. The rules we adopt are important to everyone so that everyone can be helped on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u71	Mr Secretary of State, first of all, thank you for your detailed answer. You are aware of a complex situation and you are actively taking care of it. I can hear it. It's a medical emergency, you said. We must now avoid a tragedy for these strikers, of course. The situation is currently that of 150,000 undocumented persons in Belgium. They work here, often train here, perform functions that are in short supply, are available to do so, and are willing to take training to be able to perform functions that are in short supply. There are expectations and hopes, some of which are unfounded, you mentioned as well. All situations are different. There is no one-size-fits-all answer. There is a need for pragmatic, individual, rapid, attentive and humane responses. It is a role of information, monitoring and action. In our view, there are ways in which this can be done, and in your answer you have referred to many of them. My group will continue to encourage you (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u72	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u73	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 9 June 2021, you have received an amended agenda for today's meeting. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 9 June 2021, you have received an amended agenda for today's meeting. Is there any comment on this? Are there any comments on this? Accordingly, the agenda was adopted. The agenda has therefore been adopted. However, I would like to point out that we will begin the agenda with the bill amending the Belgian Navigation Code, No. 1935 – as we planned before the inclusion of the pandemic laws for both the "Health" and the "Interior" sections.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u74	Madam President, I would like to ask for the floor before the legislative agenda is discussed. One of the texts on the agenda this afternoon concerns the pandemic law. We will call it the pandemic law, because we also have the Vandenbroucke pandemic law. As you know, the majority did not agree with our proposal to submit the draft pandemic law to the Council of State. We have regretted this, but the minority is the minority in a committee. This means that the Council of State has not had the opportunity to judge. We have asked for a legal note from the Chambers, for which I thank them, by the way. Fortunately, because it has given rise to a number of amendments which have eliminated a number of shortcomings in the draft, I hope. Here, too, an opinion from the Council of State has been requested. This means that the second reading we have asked for has had an effect on the substance of the improvement of the law, so that the key problem remains untouched. We have tabled an amendment to the text on the agenda today. In our view, this amendment is a very serious defect which has still been incorporated into the law, or even crept into it. We are also trying to seek the advice of the Council of State by this means so that we do not create serious risks in the management of future pandemics just as a result of the introduction of this law. There was no reply from the Minister at second reading, which is why I am asking for the reference to the Council of State, where our amendment can be considered and an opinion given.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u75	What amendment are we talking about?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u76	The amendment tabled by my group. We only filed one.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u77	... signed by Mrs Depoorter, but there are five amendments. Let's check this out. I shall now give the floor to Mrs Pas.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u78	Madam President, normally you have received more than one amendment from my group. We have tabled several amendments. Anyone who has already read the opinion of the Council of State on the amended draft cannot deny that it has been useful to seek an opinion from the Council of State. Members of the majority who have gone to great lengths to look at it must objectively ensure that this was certainly a necessity and a usefulness. They will therefore have no objection to the opposition's amendments, which do not have seven cabinets to triple-check everything, certainly using an opinion from the Council of State. I would therefore like to endorse Mr De Roover's request to submit not only his amendment but also our group's amendments to the draft pandemic law for an opinion to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u79	Madam Chair, during the previous consultation of the Council of State, we had naively believed that the changes that had been made between the draft bill and the bill were submitted by you to the advice of the Council of State. However, only the amendments which were adopted in committee - in other words, the majority amendments - were submitted to the Council of State. Therefore, what we are asking - and the Council of State itself asked for in its opinion - is that the differences between the draft and the draft legislation as adopted can be submitted to the Council of State for its opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u80	Madam Chair, in fact, the opinion of the Council of State that we received is looking at the amendments that were passed in committee, when there were quite significant differences between the draft bill and the bill that was subsequently introduced. These changes were not considered by the Council of State. To make up for this lack, my group is tabling an amendment which takes into account a fairly important change, namely the requisition of staff. This is an element that was not included in the draft bill and that exists in the bill, and was not a recommendation of the Council of State. In this case, we need the opinion of the Council of State as to whether this amendment is valid or not, which is why we are tabling an amendment calling on the Council of State to consider this amendment.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u81	Madam President, I am informed that at 2.05 p.m. our two amendments No. 60 and No. 61 would have been filed. So they've reached you. We must not give the impression that we would carry out excess delay manoeuvres. An attempt was made to adopt the legislative text at first reading. If that had happened, if we had followed the majority in it, there would have been a great deal of slackness in the law. They were initially extracted on the basis of the opinion of the Chambers, which we asked for, because the majority did not think that was necessary. Yesterday we received the opinion. That cannot, in all honesty, remain without reaction. The Council of State has once again cited shortcomings. As far as this opinion is concerned, I expect the majority to follow it up. Our amendments No. 60 and No. 61 are also about other elements, which certainly cannot be put to our approval. That is why I am asking the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u82	Madam President, I did indeed want to take the floor to express my party's support for the referral of these amendments to the Council of State. We need to be clear! Today we need a legal basis for adopting measures which, we will never repeat enough, violate fundamental freedoms, but this basis must meet a number of criteria, including proportionality. It must be noted that today's proposed Pandemic Bill still does not meet this criterion. By referring these amendments to the Council of State, we do not want to make any fliberous, but to see how we can add value to the current text. As my colleagues have rightly said, I am also surprised that the opinion of the Council of State, which was communicated to us this week, does not address the changes that have been made between the draft bill before Parliament and the new bill that was supposed to take into account the many hearings that we have had in committee. It was also a request contained in the original opinion of the Legislative Section of the Council of State. I also wanted to speak about the deadline for the Council of State to deliver its opinion. I do not know whether there is a specific emergency request, but I think that contrary to the previous opinion which was given, the urgency is not justified here, particularly since the Court of Appeal reformed the order of the Court of First Instance of 31 March on the illegality of covid measures. In doing so, the Court of Appeal referred the ball back to the Constitutional Court, thus allowing us to have a calm debate on this issue. I would also like to highlight the fact that amendments have also been made to the Health Bill, the Pandemic Bill in its health aspect. Here too, amendments have been tabled; I have not dealt with whether a request for referral to the Council of State has been made, but I believe that these two texts should be dealt with at the same time because they really concern the same issue. They aim to provide correct responses to the management of this health crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u83	If I recapitulate, we have obtained an amendment from Mrs Matz, an amendment from Mr Boukili. There are two amendments by the N-VA, by Mr De Roover, and eight amendments by the Flemish Interest. And there are four amendments to DéFI.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u84	Madam President, I believe that there is a serious abuse here of the possibility of seeking advice from the Council of State. An opinion has already been requested from the Council of State on five amendments. We got that advice yesterday. The Council of State is very critical of the opposition's amendments on which it has given its opinion. Today we are tabling new amendments and we are again being asked for an opinion, while there are five amendments on which we have already asked for an opinion last time. They are therefore retabled: Amendments Nos 46, 49, 48, 47 by DéFI and 50 by Mrs Matz. Those are the same amendments on which the Council of State has already ruled in response to the opposition's request. Who are we laughing with here? We are once again asking the Council of State for its opinion on the amendments on which it gave its opinion yesterday. That's not serious! Everyone had the opportunity, a few weeks ago, to add amendments, but some groups are apparently waiting for a second round and then a third and a fourth. There are also amendments on matters on which the Council of State has already expressed its views. For example, there is the question of ratification. There are amendments aimed at imposing the ratification of a measure. The Council of State has given an opinion on this and has said that the legislator can take a decision on it in conscience. Now we are again being asked for an opinion on an amendment on ratification. The Council of State will therefore again say that it allows the legislator to judge this. There are amendments on the involvement of the Communities and the Regions, such as Amendment No 55. A third of the opinion "more than 20 pages" deals with the powers of the federal government to take or not take measures federally and to intervene in matters which also fall within the competence of the Communities and the Regions. The Council of State has clearly stated when and when this is not possible. However, the Council of State is once again asked for its opinion on this matter. Madam President, this is not serious. Everyone has the right to seek advice from the Council of State, but as far as I am concerned, I would ask you to reject it. We can't do the same thing twice... we're making fun of ourselves as an assembly. The colleagues who submit this are making a mockery of themselves. We ask the Council of State, these serious lawyers who do serious work there, to do the same twice. That's not serious! It is therefore quite clear to me that this is merely a delaying manoeuvre, otherwise we would have thought as well before submitting these amendments.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u85	Madam President, I wanted to make a little clarification. Mr. Van Hecke explained that the Council of State was insurgent to be instrumentalised on several occasions for referring amendments to the Council of State. I just wanted to make it clear that it was the Council of State itself that requested that the text that had originally been amended be referred back. In fact, the Council of State explained in its opinion on the preliminary draft law: "In case this preliminary draft is amended to take into account observations from this parliamentary debate which would not be intertwined by the observations contained in the draft, it will again have to be submitted to the legislative section of the Council of State." For the rest, I must make it clear that we did not resubmit our amendments. The aim is really to be able to refer to the Council of State the new amendments but also the changes that have been made between the preliminary draft and the draft. We therefore do not wish to repeat the amendments that were originally referred to the Council of State. That goes without saying.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u86	Madam President, I would like to make some clarifications and corrections. Mr. Van Hecke tells us that what we are doing today was done a few weeks ago and that we are repeating the same thing. That's not true, Mr. Van Hecke! What has been asked of the Council of State – my group has been asking from the beginning – is that it decide on the changes that have taken place between the draft and the bill. That notice, we still haven't received it. On the other hand, Mr Van Hecke, last time the PTB did not submit any amendments. No! Today, I tabled an amendment that deals with an issue that did not exist in the draft bill, that was added to the bill and that was not voted on by the Council of State. The majority justified this addition by saying that the Council of State tells us that with the Pandemia Act, the 2007 Civil Security Act can no longer be used, and it used this opportunity to put in the bill the new request to requisition staff. This request was not a recommendation of the Council of State and it is justified to add this point by the fact that the 2007 Civil Act cannot be used and is included in the Pandemia Act, except that these are two completely different laws. Indeed, the Civil Law of 2007 is a law that applies on an ad hoc basis when there is a natural disaster and it is necessary to act quickly, for example, while the Pandemic Law can be used in a more prolonged way over time. So it's not the same thing at all. The context and framework also differ with regard to the procurement of personnel. Moreover, the Council of State has not given its opinion on this aspect. The PTB is asking for this today. Last time, we had not tabled an amendment on this, because we thought the Council of State would give its opinion on the changes that had been made between the draft bill and the bill. As is not the case, we are tabling this amendment for clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u87	Mr. Van Hecke, when you ask, "Who are we laughing at?", I really want to return the question to you. It's a little upside down! We, the opposition, have been being mocked for weeks through this project. As early as the first committee meeting, we had requested that the Council of State be consulted again, because changes were made between the draft bill and the bill. Moreover, the Council of State itself requested consultation. We have all indicated this in an extremely constructive way. The majority of them are completely out of control! We're asking again now. We were of the opinion that the request for amendments adopted in committee - which are those of the majority - obviously included the differences between the preliminary draft and the draft. On reading the opinion of the Council of State, we found that this was not the case. That is the request we are making today. Moreover, the opinion of the Council of State also concerns your amendments, those which the majority has introduced. On this point, if I were in your place, I would be somewhat concerned about some of the recommendations made by the Council of State concerning your adopted amendments. You have to read everything, when you want to do it properly and start fighting with the opposition. These are legitimate demands that we have made since the beginning. We sincerely believe that if we had been listened to from the beginning, we would not be wasting our time. Our aim is to improve the text, because as it stands, it is unacceptable. We said it and repeated it. However, we have not been listened to since the beginning, when we could have undertaken something constructive to try to preserve the rights and freedoms of everyone, while, of course, taking action. In any case, it is important that debates can take place within the parliamentary forum.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u88	Madam President, I would nevertheless like to respond to Mr Van Hecke's insinuations that these are delaying manoeuvres. The amendments tabled by my group have not yet been submitted to the Council of State. It is important legislation and we want it to be good in advance. It is good that we have asked for a second reading, because it was necessary. It is good that we have asked for an opinion from the Council of State on the amended draft, because that was necessary. I have a different view of how to make good legislation than you, Mr Van Hecke. Yesterday, your attitude in committee was when discussing the text on the status of artists, on which the Council of State advises that there is a problem of responsibilities being exceeded, that the sitting should not have to be suspended, that the text should be voted on and that, after the adoption of the text, if there is a problem of division of powers, it should go to the Constitutional Court, which should then be destroyed. However, that is not my attitude. I want to deliver good legislation from the outset so that we do not have to go to the Constitutional Court. Your group, as well as those of CD&V and Open Vld, adopted yesterday in the Flemish Parliament a resolution addressed to the federal government, where the majority of it literally states that there are different interpretations for the opinion of the Council of State on the division of powers in the pandemic law. Your party approves the text that says there are differences of interpretation. There is nothing to prevent me from submitting an amendment on this matter to the Council of State for a clarification opinion. You should welcome and support that. We cannot, I repeat, count on seven Cabinets to deliver good legislation; you do have those seven Cabinets and clearly need that advice from the Council of State. So please let the Council of State also shed light on our new amendments.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u89	Mr Van Hecke, you have missed the opportunity to remain silent. First of all, of course, I do not feel addressed by your main argument. Our amendment has not yet been considered by the Council of State, because we have tabled it today. However, the reason why I am surprised by your speech goes on. Of course, you lost your credibility in the course of the process, because if we had followed you, we would have adopted a text at first reading, where both the services of the Chamber and meanwhile the Council of State have been working hard. You were going to approve that text. You intended to adopt bad legislation, which actually amounts to a power of attorney law, which greatly restricts Parliament's rights. The question of how the division between legislative and executive powers is actually still being discussed politically. Of course, the Council of State doesn't interfere with that. Worse is that in the technical part, in the legal part of nevertheless very important legislation that the government and the majority appear to be working sloppy. We could not ask for an opinion from the Council of State in committee, because we do not have a majority there. We could, however, ask for an opinion from the legal services of the Chamber. And luckily so. You'd have moved on. The law would have been published by now, with all that shit. We also asked for the opinion on your amendments. You seem to have considered the opinion of the Chambers to be important enough to table amendments yourself. So you didn't laugh at that advice. You've acknowledged that you've done some sloppy work. You have tried to rectify this by means of amendments. In the meantime, an opinion has been delivered by the Council of State on this matter, and I would like to repeat the reaction of the Government or the majority. When you say that we must regard the Council of State as a respectable institution, I hope that the report has included those words from you. The report generally works very well here. If the Council of State is such a respectable institution, why do the Minister of Economic Affairs and the Minister of Justice afford to completely ignore the opinions of the Council of State? Last week, the Council of State refused to issue an opinion on the grounds that there was a manifest excess of competence in the Committee on Economic Affairs. That respectful institution is completely dismissed by you in another committee. You spit on it. And here you dare say that we would abuse that respectful institution. Mr. Van Hecke, you've had better moments. Surely it's unlikely that you'll do that in the same week? I would have waited at least a week and counted on the poor memory of some of my colleagues before I put that song up here. I would like to add something to that, and I would like to refer to our very interesting report, which is usually a boring second reading, which you have participated extensively in, alongside Mr Verherstraeten and the Minister. You and the Minister have admitted at one point that you understood the problem we have raised, but that you do not believe that the Council of State would offer any other possibility. Is that right? You didn't ask the Council of State. You yourself said that the Council of State has no other options. Would you not find it very sensible, especially with your not really impressive track record in the making-of of this legislation, to ask the Council of State that question together with us and not to judge that venerable institution itself that it offers no other way forward? In fact, at the second reading, you yourself came to the conclusion that there was a serious problem that could not be solved because of the opinion of the Council of State. Let us let the Council of State itself judge this. That venerable institution was also completely ignored by the majority when it recommended that the final changes to the preliminary draft already assessed and advised, which it did not see resulting from its opinion, should be resubmitted. You refused, although there are at least three, perhaps even four of those changes. You say that is not true and you again use the majority to proclaim wisdom here and to underline that you will not know the Council of State in that. We have the opportunity here to hold the political debate on the division between the legislative and executive powers, a very important democratic debate. That doesn't belong to the Council of State. That discussion belongs here in the hemisphere. In addition, what remains of the pandemic law should at least not lead to very serious gaps in the handling of possible pandemics, which hopefully never occur. We consider the opinions of the Council of State to be extremely important, because they allow a very important piece of legislation to be correctly transposed. I don't think you're well placed to judge that it would be a silly way of filibustering. I am sorry, because I think you are very high when you have the freedom to speak as you really want to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u90	Madam President, it is the opposition's right to ask for an opinion from the Council of State if there is sufficient support, even if that is a delay. I'm not denying that. What I do find strange is that some political groups here say that the Council of State did not comment on the difference between the preliminary draft and the draft bill that was tabled and discussed in committee. I should like to refer to the opinion of the Council of State itself, because they are expressing their views on this matter. That is what the opinion says on page 15, I quote: 'We are delivering our opinion on the amendments made by the committee'. Then there is a list of all the articles in question. In addition, it says: "The other amendments made not by the committee itself but by the government, in particular when submitting the draft law, have not been examined." True, that is what a number of groups have said. It is important, however, to refer to the footnote. Apparently, some of them haven't read it. I quote: 'In this context, it is pointed out that the Regulatory Section, according to its regular advisory practice, does not give its opinion on draft laws or legislative proposals drawn up alone, in order to comply with earlier opinions issued by it'. I would like to point this out, ladies and gentlemen, because the debate must also be conducted correctly here. The opposition has its rights, but the opinion of the Council of State is expressing itself on this matter. Let us respect that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u91	Madam President, there is much to say about the risk that the Council of State, which is a central jurisdiction in our legal and institutional order, will indeed be instrumentalised by certain parliamentary debates, some of which would like them to continue. I invite everyone to think about it, because this is not the first time that this Parliament has been confronted with this issue. On the other hand, I have a more concrete question for the organisation of our work. Three projects are on the agenda today. The first concerns the Belgian Navigation Code. And then, two bills are about the pandemic. The first is numbered 1929 and the second, 1951. I would like to make clear what the amendments are about, so that there is no confusion at the time of the votes, so that there is no single vote on the question of referral to the Council of State, without us seeing clearly what the amendments are about and the bill to which they relate. I would like those who have tabled amendments to clarify the number of the bill in question, 1929 or 1951. It seems to me that the 1951 project is the one which is the subject of further discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u92	Madam President, I assume that the amendments that are before us and for which an opinion is requested from the Council of State are limited to the draft law that you have here, in this Chamber, referred to as the "Pandemic Deprecated" bill. I assume that this is the case and I have not heard any other statements in this respect. I also see some colleagues from the opposition nodding in the affirmative. Then we also know that it is limited to that. Ladies and gentlemen, I am only responding to what has already been said. Reference was just made to the judgment of the Brussels Appeal Court of 7 June. That judgment would deprive us of the urgent nature of the regulations we call the "Pandemic Law Forlorn." I'm glad they're referring to the judgment. It was too small here when a decision was taken by the President of the Brussels Court of First Instance on 31 March, calling on Parliament to adopt legislation, a pandemic law, and giving us a certain period of time to do so. The barn was too small, with terminology like "blamage" and that's more. Despite the judgment being more than a week old, I didn't hear any more of it. No tweet from the colleagues of the opposition, nothing. The big words that were spoken at the time were suddenly shunned. But, Mr Rohonyi, this judgment does not remove its urgency. First, the urgency was already there before the order for interim measures. Secondly, the Council of State has not criticised the urgency that has been asked. Thirdly, this Chamber has given its opinion on the urgent nature of the matter. Now it's ruined. I think that we have had a lot of interesting, substantive debate on this draft law. More than rightly so, because it is also about very sensitive things. However, I have one thing to remember. The initial texts have changed the route and there has been much response to the criticism of some. However, the major critics who do not belong to this assembly also acknowledged that the regulation was a manifest improvement compared to the current legal situation, which is already considered sufficient by the majority ruling. However, I have heard from some Members who voted against or intend to vote against or do not actually intend to vote against, but rather to prevent the Chamber from taking a decision on the matter. That's the right word. We have been called here and demanded that there be a pandemic law. It has been stated here months ago that it was of the utmost importance that a pandemic law should be passed. There's even been a motion here that said there should be a pandemic bill. Ladies and gentlemen, after the Council of State has been able to give its opinion on the texts more than once and also on the fundamental principles of law, I agree with what Mr Van Hecke has said. Several amendments have perhaps not yet been submitted to the Council of State, but have exactly the same content as the discussions on which the Council of State has already expressed its views. We therefore call on the Council of State to do double work. I thought we had the adage "non bis in idem." Apparently, that doesn't apply here in the Chamber. Those who have demanded and asked for an urgent law to be passed are now doing everything in their power to postpone the adoption of that law. Their actions can therefore only be catalogued as dilatory maneuvers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u93	Madam Chair, sometimes what is said is not heard. I don't know what language to explain it in. Mrs Depraetere, you are telling us that the Council of State says that it has delivered an opinion on the work in committee. I agree. You add that he says, as a footnote, that he will not give a second opinion on a project on which he has already given his opinion. I agree. I heard you well and I understood you well. Now, I ask you to listen to me to hear me well and to understand me well so that if there is a reaction, it is at least consistent with what is said. The Council of State did not rule on the bill, but on the draft bill. I agree with you that if he is asked to rule on the bill, it has already been done. But there, he was asked to rule on the bill on which there was no opinion on his part. When he said that he had voted on the changes that had taken place in committee, he still did not rule on the differences between the bill and the bill. For example, Mrs Depraetere, Mr Van Hecke, Mr Verherstraeten, can you tell me what is the opinion of the Council of State on the added point and who is talking about the requisition of staff? What does the Council of State say about this? You can't answer me because he hasn't given any advice on this. The requisition of staff is a fundamental change. We asked during the parliamentary proceedings that the views of the trade unions, of the representatives of the workers first concerned by these requests, be requested and the majority refused to do so. And now you want to reject the advice of the Council of State on the requisition of staff! Do you remember when the nursing staff turned their backs on the Prime Minister at the time, because there was a departmental project to requisition the staff? Do you remember that sequence? You see what the staff think of that point. And you want to put it in the bill without the advice of workers' and trade union representatives or the Council of State? So, in this bill that flouts the democratic aspect, that is, where Parliament is excluded from the discussions on pandemics, and in decision-making in terms of health measures, we want to impose the requisition of staff without anyone's opinion! Is this the new policy? This is unacceptable to us. As long as this law is also undemocratic and wants to pass without taking into account the comments made or the opinions which must be given on such essential points, we will not accept it. This request for the opinion of the Council of State is entirely legitimate because there is no opinion of the Council of State on the question of requisitions, although it is very important and fundamental for workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u94	Madam President, I do not go into the content of the law, just the specific question. I would also like to respond to a number of accusations. First of all, anyone who knows me knows that I'm a big fan of second reading. To those who claim that I would have tried to avoid a second reading, I say, never. I never have a problem with asking for a second reading in a committee, which always leads to an improvement. I'd like to make that right. Secondly, there is a debate here on the exact question on which the Council of State has now given its opinion. Mrs Depraetere has already referred to page 15. I think the Council of State has tried to find out what the precise question was by reading the minutes of the plenary session. She refers to the president, who is trying to sum up the discussion. The president said: "If there is no other intervention, perhaps I can clarify exactly what could then be sent to the Council of State. Mr De Roover, you are proposing the amended passages in committee as well as amendments 46, 47, 48, 49 and 50 to the document." They refer to a footnote. Mr De Roover, footnotes are important. The Council of State states: 'See also the intervention of Mr De Roover, who suggested 'that we should now confine ourselves to the parts which were amended during the discussion and which, moreover, concern amendments tabled by the majority, because she herself saw that the version submitted was still flawed'.' The Council of State gave an opinion on this. The President summarised it and you clearly said that it was about the changes made to the committee. I know that some people would also have liked to have analysed the preliminary draft and draft legislation, but that was not the subject of the question a few weeks ago. Thirdly, you referred to a discussion this week and I would like to comment on that because you have both been completely misinformed. It was a discussion in the Committee on Economics, where I was apparently not in favour of sending an opinion to the Council of State. What happened? It was a draft law on which there is already an opinion from the Council of State. In the explanatory statement, Minister Dermagne replied to that opinion and argued why he did not consider the comment of the Council of State to be relevant. There was a discussion at the time because they wanted to ask again for the opinion of the Council of State on a text that had not been amended. In consultation with the services, I have had to point out that the Council of State's opinion cannot be requested twice if the text has not been amended. After all, it remains the same text. Following this discussion, neither N-VA nor Flemish Interest requested the vote on the Council of State's opinion. So you are very badly placed to insinuate that I would have refused an opinion. I proposed the vote, but they did not ask for it. Finally, I insist that Amendments Nos 46 to 50, on which the opinion of the Council of State is requested, are literally the same as Amendments Nos 46 to 50, which were sent to the Council of State for advice a few weeks ago. I insist that these are the same amendments and that we cannot therefore ask for an opinion on them. The others are other amendments, but they could have been tabled last time, because they mainly concern the re-entry of amendments from the committee. Madam President, I would ask that the amendments which have already been the subject of an opinion of the Council of State be excluded from this question of opinion and that the opposition not table repeated identical amendments in the future and send them to the Council of State for an opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u95	Everyone has been able to express themselves amply – beyond the five minutes of regulation! – I therefore propose that you vote on the referral of these amendments to the Council of State. These amendments all concern Bill Nos. 1951/1 to 11 or Pandemic Domestic Bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u96	The question should simply be supported by 50 Members. It is therefore strictly theoretical that we do not have to vote. Madam President, the draft has been given urgency. I have learned from the debate that 50 Members who support the question will be found. I assume that the opinion of the Council of State will also be requested in a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u97	If I hear correctly, there is no need to vote, because we understand that at least 50 members support the request.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u98	The opinion could be requested as a matter of urgency. Mr Boukili, I think you would like to address the question of the point of order.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u99	Madam President, it has been months since the whistleblowers of the Data Protection Authority (DPA) and civil society denounced situations of incompatibility within ODA. The situation has been in the hands of Parliament for months, and the PTB has been calling for action to end this incompatibility for months. Mr Robben is the most typical example, with 18 mandates: he is both controlled, controller, supplier, customer... I have spoken in plenary and committee, where I have repeatedly asked for the procedure to be initiated to put an end to these incompatibilities. Meanwhile, scandals followed: Putting Data at the Center, Oasis, tracing, Smals, the Information Security Committee, where about 20 whistleblowers who preferred to keep anonymity for fear of reprisals denounced the killing of our democratic system by this Committee, which, in terms of data, usurps the power of the legislator. I asked for Mr Robben's hearing on the Committee on Information Security (CSI) in the Committee on Justice, which was rejected by all the parties, which did not consider it useful to hear it. We are now learning that the European Commission is going to take action against Belgium for violation of the GDPR because of the incompatibilities within ODA. The Chamber's legal services confirmed that this situation involved the responsibility of the State if the necessary steps were not taken. However, there is nothing going on, and I have not heard of any reaction from the other political parties in this regard. Silence is deafening, while our right to privacy is in jeopardy. The European Commission gives us two months to regularize the situation and guarantee the independence of ODA. Here, the House is being asked to order the Justice Committee to deal with this matter without delay and to set a binding timetable for doing so. It is time for all parties to assume their responsibilities. Various groups have been heard denouncing these conflicts of interest; other parties have even been heard calling for Mr. Robben's resignation. Now is the time to add the act to the floor, which is why we expect all parties to vote in favour of our motion and that this matter be dealt with as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u100	Madam Chair, I have read the motion and I must confess that I am quite surprised. Not its content, even if it amazes me, but its form. Unless I am mistaken, the Justice Committee will meet next week. The Committee on Justice has, on its agenda in camera, examined confidential documents that came to us this week from the Court of Auditors and the legislative services of the House. Therefore, I do not understand very well the manoeuvre of asking, in plenary, a Committee on Justice which is already scheduled next week on a fixed date, and which is responsible for examining documents in camera, to meet to do the work it agreed to do next week. We can play, we can show, but at some point, we have to be serious. That's the first thing. I am astonished at its content. Very sincerely, I have read this motion carefully. I would simply like to point out, without going any further, that the opinion of the Court of Auditors and the document of the Chamber's legislative services have been transmitted to a number of determined Members, working in the Committee on Justice in camera. I find it unfortunate, if not dangerous, for democracy and for our work, that two important elements, in particular, contained in discreet and even secret documents, which must be dealt with in camera, are now isolated. These are not the only elements contained in this report. They are isolated and placed in the public square, revealed, in contradiction and in violation of the lock-up that is supposed to govern our work. I find it dangerous. I say it here because I find that the method, in addition to the form, on the substance is quite special. I am obliged to vote for a text to convene a committee which is already meeting next week and which is responsible for clarifying all these documents seems to me to be very special. So you know the outcome of my vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u101	Madam President, I just want to make a few clarifications. I think Mr Aouasti, like other colleagues, has had the opportunity to read the press lately. The information that has been put forward, whether in the motion or elsewhere, is now public as it has been released in the press.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u102	Reference is made to point 21 of the Court of Auditors' report. We don't quote Le Soir. I'm so sorry!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u103	No, but Le Soir quotes that report. This information is public. They're not secret. They were published in the press. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u104	What do you mean, it's not true? In the meantime, the European Commission has launched a procedure at this level. That is our request to the Committee on Justice. That is what the European Commission is asking for to be taken into account. This is something that was not planned because the meeting we are talking about here has been fixed for a while while this information is new. We want the Committee on Justice to deal urgently, in a very short time, with the European Commission's inquiry. That is the purpose of the motion. We mustn't confuse things.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u105	A point of order was tabled by Messrs. Nabil Boukili and Raoul Hedebouw read as follows:"The House of Representatives, - Considering that, for many months, the issue of the composition of the Data Protection Authority (DPA) has been before the Chamber, some of which are in a situation of legal incompatibility, in particular MM. Frank Robben and Bart Preneel; - Whereas the President of the Authority, Mr David Stevens, is also responsible for numerous serious breaches; - Whereas all data protection specialists agree that this situation does not comply with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR); - Whereas, on the initiative of the Committee on Justice, an audit of ODA was requested by the Court of Auditors, which recommended, in paragraph 21, that a procedure be initiated on the basis of Article 45 of the Act of 3 December 2017 establishing ODA; - Considering that a note from the Chamber's legal services also established that, in the absence of a remedy to this situation, the Chamber incurred the civil liability of the Belgian State; - Whereas the European Commission announced on Wednesday 9 June the launch of a procedure against Belgium for breaches of the GDPR, a first since the latter's entry into force; Whereas the Commission gives Belgium a period of two months to regularize the situation; - Considering that the Chamber has all the elements necessary to rule on this matter; calls on the Committee on Justice to set a timetable without delay to complete, within the time limit granted by the European Commission, its work on the issue of the composition of the Data Protection Authority." Mr Nabil Boukili and Mr Raoul Hedebouw presented an order motion which reads as follows: "The Chamber of Representatives, - having regard to the fact that the Court has been examining for months the question of the composition of the Data Protection Authority (GBA), a number of members of which, in particular Mr Frank Robben and Mr Bart Preneel, are legally incompatible; - whereas the Chairman of the Data Protection Authority, Mr David Stevens, is also charged with several serious shortcomings; - whereas all data protection specialists declare that this situation does not comply with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR); - whereas, on the initiative of the Justice Commission, an audit of the GBA was requested by the Court of Auditors, which, at paragraph 21 of its report, recommended that a procedure be initiated pursuant to Article 45 of the Law of 3 December 2017 establishing the Data Protection Authority; - whereas a note from the Court's legal services also states that if that situation is not remedied, the Belgian State would be held civilly liable by the Court. - whereas the European Commission announced on Wednesday 9 June that it would initiate proceedings against Belgium for failure to comply with the GDPR, which has never happened before since the entry into force of the latter Regulation; - whereas the European Commission grants Belgium a period of two months to put the situation in order; - having regard to the fact that the Court has at its disposal all the elements necessary to take a decision in this case; calls on the Justice Commission to set a timetable without delay in order to complete the work on the composition of the Data Protection Authority within the time limit set by the European Commission." I propose that the chairmen take a decision on this motion. I propose that the chairmen of the political groups vote on this motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u106	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mrs Thibaut, who refers to her written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u107	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law before us received broad support in committee. I, too, was initially positive about the draft law, because mea culpa, I have been so unwise to base myself on the Minister's explanatory statement in committee. Minister Van Quickenborne stated in the committee that he did not go ice in the draft law about one night. He explained that it was the result of wide consultation. And indeed, there has been a lot of consultation, but only with the shipping industry. Since the vote in the committee, it has become clear that other segments of the maritime world are in turmoil today about the planned legislative change. To our surprise, exporters, insurers and logistics partners were not involved in the drafting of the bill. They have therefore expressed their strong opposition to the planned legislative amendment in recent weeks. I am only going over a few of the criticisms that have been made. Firstly, for cargo rights and shiploads, the change makes it more difficult for Belgian companies and freighters to secure their claims against shipping companies. Shippers with weak solvents - and these are mainly foreign ones - are thus encouraged to become active in our ports, thereby increasing commercial risks. Secondly, the adjustments also have a significant impact on the liability of maritime transport operators. It is stated that the ship owner is no longer liable in solidum for commitments entered into by the master on behalf of another party. The applicability of the Hague-Visby Rules to all freight sea transport agreements introduced by the Maritime Code last year will be reversed. As a result, carriers are given much greater freedom of movement to impose their own transport conditions on exporters, who often lack a negotiating margin and are unable to provide sufficient redress. This risks jeopardising the competitive position of our exporting companies. Thirdly, there are fundamental changes to the jurisdiction of our courts. So far, our judges have jurisdiction to contest bills of lading or letters of lading for transport to or from our ports. That too is in danger of being abolished. This creates legal uncertainty in litigation for the coming years. Chargers and their insurers will be required to initiate proceedings before courts around the world. That will almost certainly be the case outside the European Union, think of London, New York, Shanghai, of course under local law, with all the risks and costs involved. I have not yet seen a minister who is also responsible for justice put more trust in foreign courts than in his own judiciary. To sum up, the change is putting pressure on our international competitiveness. Flanders is a small open economy. We need to talk about our international trade. That the Minister as a "liberal," but what is left of it in the current government? It is not a sensible policy to stimulate against the commercial interests of our exporting companies and SMEs. Especially now that international trade flows are seriously disrupted by the corona crisis, it is in the stars that this draft law threatens to cause many disputes. As a result, the government is chasing the Flemish companies at a cost. Not only the content is wrong, but also the way in which this was done. Shipping legislation has never really been the subject of a major political debate in the last decade. This also explains why the dossier between the committee's discussion and the plenary session turned out to be a thunderbolt. This has a lot to do with the method that has been maintained in recent years and was mainly focused on building consensus. Fifteen years behind the scenes have been working on the reform of shipping law. This was a very comprehensive and thorough legislative exercise, with an extensive opportunity for all stakeholders to give their input. Everyone became closely involved in the creation. All praise goes once again to the academics and experts who, under the chairmanship of Professor Eric Van Hooydonk, were pioneers for many years in a project which, moreover, was completed by a party member of the current minister, former Minister De Backer. For more than a decade, angelic patience has been used to achieve this consensus. But what does Minister of Quickenborne do? Just eight months after he took office, he came here with a draft law which explicitly draws the map of one sector of the very broad maritime world. I have every respect and appreciation for the shipping companies, because they also face specific challenges. But it doesn't seem like such a way of working. The minister storms into the maritime porcelain shop like an elephant. The meticulously built-up relationship is talked in chunks on the ground, to a great panic of the sector. Colleagues, I quote Unizo's response. This might be interesting for CD&V colleagues: "The multitude of other maritime sectors, industry, trade, insurers, banks, transport, intermediaries, freight operators, logistics service providers, etc. all of which have a personal and legitimate interest in the regulation were not known in the proposed change and are not taken into account."
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u108	Because of this commotion, we have proposed with N-VA in recent weeks to take these concerns seriously and to re-examine that draft law in the Committee on Mobility. The Minister agreed first. We were told that the government was going to table amendments, but then that cart was again turned around and still refused the proposal in committee. In one week's time, there was an exchange of views between the plenary and a re-examination in committee until the plenary session was resumed. At first there was no amendment, then there was and then there was no amendment. There no turns were made, but a complete pirouette was turned. In short, we do not want to cooperate in this legislative process. Since the government has withdrawn its commitment to table amendments, we have taken the trouble to submit them ourselves. These are 16 amendments, which highlight the most controversial aspects of the draft law. I think that is a good thing for everyone: for the opposition, for the majority, and certainly for the sector, because it gives the Minister the opportunity to speak with all the partners involved, and I would like to stress the word - to sit around the table - to engage in the discussion and try to reach a consensus.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u109	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this draft law is indeed very heavy and technical, but it is also Minister Van Quickenborne's explanatory statement that has led to the unanimous support of various groups in committee. Fortunately, committee work isn't final, but what happened last week was pretty hallucinating. The draft law was taken off the agenda, rightly due to the concerns of various sectors, sub-sectors and well-known civil society organisations, known by some groups rather than others. The text therefore deserved special attention. It would therefore have been a sign of constructiveness and progressive insight if the draft had been sent back to committee, which was also promised. Then we could deal with the design more thoroughly there. So that didn't happen. The bill is just on the agenda here today. We regret this, but it is what it is. Mr Minister, for the sake of clarity, there are also good things in it, but there are some shortcomings to note which are shared here or at least in the corridors by a considerable number of colleagues. The intention was to protect shipowners and seafarers, which certainly deserves the support of the Flemish Interest, but this also means that other players in the maritime world are at risk of falling out of the proverbial boat with this bill. This draft law underestimates the importance of Hinterland companies, producers and customers directly or directly linked to our ports. This draft aims to protect the position of the Flemish ports by placing the emphasis on the protection of shipping companies and their seafarers. However, this is somewhat short-sighted, because without that economically competitive hinterland the same ports also lose their economic strength. It is just the fear of losing competitiveness which gives the whole text a slightly harsh aftertaste, because, let's face it, it is first and foremost the favourable geographical location of our Flemish ports, together with the associated logistics know-how and the possession of qualified port workers, which represents the pronounced added value of our Flemish ports. That must remain the case in the future. Because the constructive re-examination was not applied in committee and because, despite the good intentions towards shipowners and seafarers, the broad nautical picture is overlooked, the Flemish interest will abstain.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u110	Madam President, Minister, I can keep my speech brief because we all know the history of this bill. Mr Roggeman has described a bit of caricature over the past few weeks, but there is something to it. I'm glad he's referring to Unizo's advice. It's very wise to look at them from time to time. It is also striking that the two opposition parties indicate that, on the basis of your introduction to this draft law in committee, they have agreed to this bill. Should it always be so easy, it would help us very much, but this aside. Since the adoption in committee, we have in any case received a lot of comments. Mr President, to what extent will you take this into account after the adoption of the draft law as it stands today?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u111	Madam Chair, Minister, we were not in committee. So we did not participate in this debate. It is impossible to follow all the debates of all the committees, given the number we are. That being said, since the vote will take place today, I would like to refer here in particular to the concerns of small and medium-sized enterprises. The Echo also said this morning: "Belgian importers delivered to the good will of the shipowners." It is true that we share these concerns. I have also had the opportunity to dialogue in recent weeks with some of them who have strongly drawn our attention to changes in the text that will radically affect the responsibilities of the actors in the supply chain and also of importing companies. Your bill provides for the removal of the mandatory nature of compliance with international rules and the prevention of assignees to goods that have suffered damage from making a seizure on a Belgian or foreign ship. We can see here directly the impact that this can have, especially the fact that this clearly risks reducing the protection of Belgian but also European companies which import via the port of Antwerp. Unizo also said that "our SMEs could find themselves in a situation where, in order to be compensated, they should apply to a jurisdiction in Panama, Hong Kong or a tax haven. We share these concerns, but we also share them. Reducing the protection of the Belgian economic fabric and, in particular, of small and medium-sized enterprises is obviously reducing the competitiveness of our enterprises. It is also a weakening of some businesses and SMEs, which, even more so in this pandemic period, need strong support and a positive stimulus rather than factors that, in such a bill, could actually lead them to harm in a number of situations. For these reasons, minister, we will not vote on your bill. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u112	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, more than two years ago in this House, the legislative proposal for the introduction of the Belgian Maritime Code was adopted. The drafting of this comprehensive code, which has 1,200 pages, has been carried out for more than 12 years. There has been a great deal of consultation, but at some point it is necessary to take decisions. That's exactly what happened two years ago. The consultations were concluded, Belgium was given a modern and codified code and the competitiveness of our ports was safeguarded. I submit today the first major amendment. This bill was preceded by a detailed analysis and the proposals that emerged from it were examined in depth by DG Navigation. This bill has received a positive opinion from the Flemish Government, the Region where the port of Antwerp is located. This bill has received the positive advice of the Flemish Government, where the main port of our country, the port of Antwerp, is located. This bill has recently been approved unanimously in the Mobility Committee. I have also read the letters to which reference is made. What's the discussion about? Firstly, it deals with Articles 81, 83 and 84 of the draft law. The so-called Hague-Visby Rules are international treaty rules governing maritime transport, including the way liability should be regulated. By making these rules of particularly binding law, the parties are obliged to have any dispute settled by a Belgian court. As a result, jurisdiction clauses in transport contracts are not applied. No other European country has such a provision. Therefore, the particularly compelling nature of the Hague-Visby Rules is deleted. The bill that is being proposed to you today removes this concept of police law. I will explain why this is necessary with the help of an example. You all remember the incident involving the Ever Given ship that blocked the Suez Canal for a week. At present, the shipowner tries to deal with all claims together in one package, allowing the injured parties to receive compensation. If 200 containers are intended for our country on this ship, which carried more than 20,000 containers, the shipowner must bring 200 separate legal proceedings before the Belgian court for those 200 containers. You will agree with me that the little ones will suffer and will have to sue instead of enjoying what the shipowner offers to the others. It is true that shipping companies often choose the same courts, often in London or Marseille, for the sake of unitary treatment of their claims. However, they too would prefer to settle matters of mutual interest rather than long disputes. Secondly, the cargo privilege, Article 16. When the cargo on the ship is damaged during a sea voyage, the owner of this cargo has a privilege on the whole ship. In concrete terms, this means that in order to compensate for that damage, the owner can confiscate the entire ship and even have it sold in order to obtain compensation. This also applies to a ship containing 20,000 containers of which only one is damaged. In practice, in the event of damage, the shipowner will quickly deposit a deposit with a Belgian bank which can serve as compensation for the damage suffered by the court in the event of a judgment. The shipowner does not wish to incur any further delay and possible additional claims for delays. Because this provision made our country known as shipwreck friendly... some lawyers even speak of ship arrest paradise.................................................................................................................................................... In order to be compensated for damage, a protective seizure can still be made, but the ship itself cannot be sold anymore. This puts us in line with the current rules that also apply to our main competing ports, such as the port of Rotterdam. I come to the right of appeal, Article 88. Under current regulations, damage to the cargo during the journey can be claimed by both the consignor and the consignee in order to obtain compensation for the damage. However, only the sender must prove the damage, not the recipient. This is totally illogical and does not apply in any other sector. It goes without saying, therefore, that we must amend this rule. Those who claim to suffer damage must of course be able to prove it. In addition, we add that the holder of the transport document or title can also file a claim. Let me give you an example. For example, a Middle East refinery sends a petroleum tanker to a company in Antwerp. That Antwerp company lends to a bank that holds the title until the company pays off the debts. In the event of damage to the cargo, only the refinery and the bank can now make a claim. The company will be able to do the same, but only after payment from the bank. It is not only the Belgian, but also the foreign shipping companies that support this design, as well as the container shipping companies that account for more than 65% of container transport in the port of Antwerp. If we deviate from the general rules, our ports will become less attractive. 12 years of work on the reform of shipping law. Even then, there was criticism of the traders and transport insurers who did not want any changes. In the meantime, my services have started discussions. I am committed to continuing the dialogue on this issue. In the meantime, I am asking for the draft law to be approved. Otherwise, acting damages the maritime sector and threatens the attractiveness of our ports.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u113	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u114	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1935/3) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1935/3) The bill has 145 articles. The draft law has 145 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u115	· 1 – Tomas Roggeman cs (1935/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u116	· 2 – Tomas Roggeman cs (1935/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u117	· 3 – Tomas Roggeman cs (1935/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u118	· 4 – Tomas Roggeman cs (1935/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u119	· 5 – Tomas Roggeman cs (1935/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u120	· 6 – Tomas Roggeman cs (1935/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u121	· 7 – Tomas Roggeman cs (1935/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u122	· 8 – Tomas Roggeman cs (1935/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u123	· 9 – Tomas Roggeman cs (1935/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u124	· 10 – Tomas Roggeman cs (1935/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u125	· 11 – Tomas Roggeman cs (1935/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u126	· 12 – Tomas Roggeman cs (1935/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u127	· 10 – Tomas Roggeman cs (1935/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u128	· 10 – Tomas Roggeman cs (1935/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u129	· 13 – Tomas Roggeman cs (1935/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u130	· 14 – Tomas Roggeman cs (1935/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u131	· 15 – Tomas Roggeman cs (1935/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u132	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled, the articles that have been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u133	I have received an amendment to the bill containing various provisions on value added tax, No. 1943/1. I have received an amendment to the draft law on various provisions on value added tax, No. 1943/1. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 9 June 2021, I propose that this amendment be referred to the Committee on Finance and the Budget (Art. 93, No. 1 of the Regulation). In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 9 June 2021, I propose that the amendment be sent to the Finance and Budget Committee (Art. 93, No. 1, of the Rules of Procedure). No observations? [[(Non]] [[)]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u134	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mr Robby De Caluwe, who refers to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u135	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law on health care measures to control the covid crisis. We are finally ready to discuss the measures taken here, which required a proper legal framework for some of them. In fact, they could have been put into a legal framework for a long time. So far we have been working on ministerial decisions for too long and too long. This was an effective opportunity for the government to put this right, to correct democratic control, to correct that the legal framework would be created through a parliamentary debate. What is left of this text in particular? Many diffuse RBs will determine what the measures reflected in this bill will ultimately be. Parliamentary control is therefore still absent. That is one of the main reasons why our group will abstain. We are very grateful to all the caregivers and all the volunteers working in the vaccination centres who are involved in the management of this crisis. That is why we do not want to stop this. That legal framework is necessary, but it is a missed opportunity in the democratic field, and my party is convinced of that. The drafting of this bill is very special. You may all remember: in January, a dark red, sanitary pandemic law, or even a piece of paper, was sent to Europe. In this text the market was taken over by the State. We already knew that this purple-green government would rather play distributor than actually regulate and let our companies do their job. The rapid tests, for example, are distributed by the State. The problem of shortage of medical devices and mouth masks, for example, is not addressed. The N-VA Group has been arguing for months to facilitate local production by reducing the VAT handicap, but local production is still not being addressed. Colleagues, with regard to the self-tests, which can be very important in the whole of this control and approach or in the travel of our people. Even with regard to the approval of these self-tests, the government fails to address the advantage of these large groups. After all, in two months we have managed to approve three self-tests, coincidentally the self-tests of the largest companies and the most expensive. The drafting of this bill is special. The minister's got a second seat. The ideological piece of work has been renegotiated and evolved. A missed opportunity is that we have looked very closely at this corona crisis, while the WHO and other organisations warn us that our country's preparation in the context of pandemics, including pandemics other than the coronapandemic, is inadequate and needs to be addressed. This could have been taken. It is an important fact that the political debate has not been respected. Colleagues, I continue to look for this so-called new political culture. The opposition's amendments are simply voted down, even if there is no political, ideological evaluation of them. Let me give you an example of the new political culture. Article 52 is the summum of cynicism with regard to the new political culture of purple-green. Last April, we all approved the price reductions for medicines. We all agreed that the medicines needed to control the corona crisis, which are essential for our patients and which we could foresee a shortage, should not be subject to price reductions. We approved all of this. In December, our group tabled the same amendment to the programme law, because we were still in the covid crisis and we were still concerned that the medicines could reach our patients. It was voted off. Suddenly, the purple-green majority was no longer convinced and that list, which had been drawn up by the FAGG, a public authority, had to be evaluated. Now, ladies and gentlemen, today we have the amendment that we tabled in December bearing in mind the new political culture, in Article 52. Of course we are in favour of Article 52. We welcome that, because it benefits our patients. But as a responsible person, I wouldn't dare do it that way. This is anti-political in my view, not new politics. Equally problematic in this draft law is the lack of consultation with very important actors in managing this crisis, namely the Länder. Our group has quite clearly put the question to the vote to seek the opinion of the Länder on this draft. That was voted down, but worse still, there have been no contacts, there has been no official question to the Länder about how to implement this law. That's a lack of respect. Even worse, if we read it correctly, we do see the creeping refederalisation that is currently underway in this text. This is, I think, poignant. When I read plans for the future of the chairman of one of the coalition partners, I read that a Swiss model would come towards us, but in that Swiss model it is very clear that laws that are federally approved will be tested regionally. To what extent does this coalition partner have anything to say? Or is that chairman just saying something? Isn't that tuned? I miss any consequence here. The draft law is also a really missed opportunity to draw lessons from the first wave and to take steps on regionalisation and a homogeneous competence for the regions in the field of public health, to gradually do our democratic work and to include our preparatory task. Another lesson from the first waves that is bizarrely not drawn is the fact that the FAGG and the FPS Public Health are given extra wide powers, especially for the purchase and control of the strategic stock, and that this happens without any evaluation. I'll take you to some of the bottlenecks in the first wave. I am thinking, for example, of Pfizer's forgotten signature. We've all been bumped into that a few times. I have asked several times if you have linked an evaluation to that, Minister, but you told me that this did not happen. However, I note that the administrator-general of the FAGG is no longer a spokesperson for the steering board, on which you said the chairman of the task force is doing so now. It's kind of like a chair dance. If you confirm to me that no evaluation has been carried out, I will stick to my statement that it would have been better to do so, then I would ask you, if you were to carry out an evaluation of the FAGG or the FOD, to pass on the results to Parliament as well. It would be a pity if an evaluation of the FOD or the FAGG had been carried out, but democracy, Parliament, was not informed of the results and the steps taken. Again, is there an internal or external evaluation in progress of the FAGG or the FOD? If it isn't, why not? Why are you not going to evaluate two organisations in which the pandemic control really identified bottlenecks before you assign them such a broad extra task? After all, you want to allocate the purchase, management and monitoring of the strategic stock to...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... You want to make the search for medical devices and medicines for the strategic stock a competence of the FAGG, which must also inspect producers. Mr. Secretary, say it yourself. I was just talking about the forgotten signature, but there are also the mouth masks, the overpriced tests, the self-tests that are not approved, the tests that are validated in friendly labs, the 1 cc syringes that were not purchased and the contracts with AstraZeneca, for which Deloitte had already warned in the summer of 2020. You want to give that organization even more authority without any screening. You also want to give power, but the Council of State warns about the independence of the FAGG. You also want to overrule the Council of State's advice and simply apply what you intend to do. I was just talking about the fact that you didn't contact the Länder. Whoever you have not contacted, which is very striking for a health minister, is the umbrella organisation of care. For the hospitals, it seems to me to be one of the actors with whom you should sit at the table. The fact that hospital advances are being arranged here is a good thing. There must be a framework for these advances. However, the fact that they are regulated without taking into account the need for thesauri and without any financial orthodoxy shows the risk that the hospitals, which are in the red today, will not be triggered to look for financial orthodoxy. The following passage is also special: "As the technique of processing takes time, this provision will have effect until 2024." Does that mean an interest-free loan to Walloon hospitals with red digits? It is very special that it does not take into account, firstly, the financial treasury and, secondly, the observation made by the Zorgnet-Icuro dome, which states that the hospital should be informed and that the need for funding should be there. In fact, my colleague Frieda Gijbels has drawn up an amendment to that effect which we will be submitting again in the near future. I will then come to the determination of the duration. That too is very diffuse because one KB is valid until the end of the year while another applies until the end of 2024. Sometimes we even talk about the end of the crisis. This week you had a discussion in committee with Mrs Gijbels. What is the end of the crisis? I have looked at your answer again, and it seems that you cannot decide for yourself. What are the criteria for determining the end of the crisis? Why don't you put it here? If you are proposing a law of measures, you must be able to state very clearly when they will cease. That is precisely the problem that many citizens have, and there is no clear communication. When are we gonna get out of these covid measures? How is that determined? Is that determined by a parliamentary debate or is it done on a scientific basis? None of that is in the text. Of course, this is not the way to get a bill that has been passed. Another difficulty is the inclusion of measures which really deserve a much deeper debate. How can we create a solid legal framework if we do not have time or sense to talk about it with the sector? After all, there is no consultation with the stakeholders. I am referring, for example, to information and communication technologies. This should actually be much wider than that provided for in this text, but it should be preceded by a parliamentary debate, as well as consultation with the sector. This also applies to the role of Sciensano. This is quickly included but the founding law is not evaluated and very targeted applications are not introduced. Another point that certainly needs to be raised in this debate is the ethical reflex. One can claim medicines in the context of a pandemic, for the continuity of care for the patients who are the victims. In the Committee on Health and the covid debate, we have often stressed the continuity of care for chronic patients. That concern is there and she stays... We must ensure that the balance is not lost and that this medication is available to chronic patients at all times. The same applies to preventive and diagnostic care. There's no attention to that. Any measure, any seizure, any restriction on a particular molecule or medicinal product should be supported by scientific evidence. Many measures taken under the covid pandemic were intended to relieve the burden on hospitals. That was right, because the hospitals were overloaded. According to the present design, non-authorised medicinal products should be distributed through the hospital pharmacy. In this way, we organise a flow of patients with a virus, even if it is an outpatient therapy, to the hospital, where they have to pick up their medicine and then return home by bus. It's like the virus's gonna stop because they're getting meds at the hospital. Let those possibly outpatiently distribute medicines just in the official pharmacy around the corner. There is much less transport, but also much less transmission of the virus. That is a scientifically correct way of working. What strikes me in my heart is the passage about the non-approved medicines, which says literally: "For the pharmacovigilance and follow-up of patients there is a need to distribute these medicines through the hospital pharmacy." Apparently, the shared pharmaceutical dossier is not sufficient or you do not have sufficient confidence in the official pharmacist to perform that pharmacovigilance. What does this phrase mean? The flow of patients to hospitals should be limited in order to relieve the burden on hospitals, but also to relieve the burden on patients. We need to make sure that they can get their medications close to home and without risking extra contamination. Regarding vaccination, there is absolutely no vision of vaccination 2.0. I do not read any foresight in this text. You will continue to focus on the vaccination centres and on the continuation of the vaccination campaign in those centres. That centralist conductism of the state stays in it. Yet more and more scientific voices are emerging that say this will become an endemic state. Producers report that they are considering whether it is possible to group the covid vaccination with the flu vaccine. So that first line should be completely ready. If you were to talk to the producers about unidoses... I asked you, but you obviously didn't. The federal government has had the debacle around the orders of the vaccines, around waiting to see how those vaccinations should be administered, practicing, practicing, practicing. You remember our discussion about this. We have missed the opportunity here to clearly put ourselves on the map as a development region. I know you'll say we're at the top of the list now. But we're way too late, we could've been three months faster. You also do not take a position on vaccination in the official language in this legislative text, but advice has been requested on this. One could have taken that perfectly, but it didn't happen. Then I wonder why not. You are talking about deliveries to hospitals and hospital hubs; the pharmaceutical experts would redistribute, but there is nothing about vaccination in the official state. The lack of communication and foresight in this Easter-green government is a very unfortunate observation. I note that the budget is still not being budgeted in a forward-looking way. With regard to the PCR communication for people who have not yet had a shot, you say that those tests will be paid for, while I do not read it in the budget or in the budgetary adjustment that we have taken into account. That's gonna have to be looked at. What is also difficult in communication is the fact that doctors who have been through covid have received a first vaccine and have chosen that the second vaccine was not necessary because they already have a built-up immunity, so far do not know how to proceed. They don't know if they're gonna get a second vaccine or if they're gonna have to take a PCR test every once in a while if they're gonna go on vacation. As far as the self-tests are concerned, Minister, you also have a great deal of freedom. You can decide via a KB that the self-tests will no longer be sold in the pharmacy, but in the supermarket. You do not have to answer for this in Parliament. Why can't this debate be held in Parliament? The same applies to the export restriction of medicinal products. There you may even deviate from the legal deadline if necessary. However, that cannot be the intention. Our group has been saying for months that the debate and control are lacking while they are of the utmost importance in this covid crisis. We have already given you the concerns about the training of the general practitioners and the specialists. That the covidstages can count is correct, but we must ensure that we do not graduate covidologists and that the internship can be accomplished effectively. I also keep wondering why the combicliff was included in this text. The program law, there is already a new program law... You argue that the combination preparations would become too cheap, creating a risk of unavailability. Actually, it's a correction of what you didn't see in the previous program law. This again indicates a lack of analysis of the measures taken in the near future by this government. In fact, you are going to include those analogue countries in the new programme law, which was not the case here. Ladies and gentlemen, as I have already said, we will abstain. The main reason for this is that we no longer want to stand in the way of all those who work very hard in the vaccination centres, who work so hard in the corona crisis. Madam President, I will explain our group's amendments very quickly. Amendment No We'll re-table 20. The Council of State asked for clarification on the channel where we would prefer to reserve the distribution of those non-granted medicinal products in ambulatory therapy. We propose to divide outpatient, non-granted therapy initially through the home pharmacist instead of through the hospital pharmacy. A second amendment, on which the Council of State had no comments, is a consequence. A third amendment, on which the Council of State did not have any comments, is still before us, because I think it is certainly legal. It is a matter of amendment No. 23, in which we state that the identity of the vaccineator should not necessarily be communicated on Vaccine Network. We are asking this because we do not think it is necessary to give that vaccineer that responsibility. Mr Gijbels has Amendments Nos. 25 and No. 26 resubmitted. Amendment No 25 we have adapted to the Council of State. There was a remark there about the deadline. We propose that the term be adjusted by royal decree, to reflect it by royal decree. In the case of Amendment No. 26 asks the Council of State to clarify the fourth paragraph. It's about the caregivers. The substance of this amendment is the difference between the advances paid and the needs that exist.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u136	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, since yesterday there has been a wind of freedom. We have the impression that the sun has returned not only physically but also in our minds. If the light seems to be present today and the prospects are very positive, it is thanks in particular to the vaccination – which must be continued and accelerated – thanks to the solidarity and positive behaviour of all our citizens. But we must remain cautious and pragmatic. Covid-19 is not yet behind us, unfortunately it is also a reality. In order to be able to take useful measures quickly, if necessary, we need a clear framework, legal certainty to take these measures and for our citizens. This framework is what you are proposing today through this bill. We also need a framework for other potential crises. This project therefore provides a legal basis for a series of measures already taken during the first wave, which must be sustained, but also a legal basis for a series of new measures which are essential to ensure the safety and continuity of care. Measures refined following the opinion of the Council of State and also following discussions with the European Commission. This text provides a legal basis for the establishment of a strategic stock of medicines but also means of protection. It is well known that both are essential to protect, in particular, those on the front line. It also includes measures to regulate the use of unauthorized medicines. This is important for both prescribers and patients. There are also measures to avoid the shortage of essential drugs in the covid. There are still measures that regulate the testing policy and measures to enable the follow-up of the side effects of the various vaccines. We have a legal basis in this text which opens the way for a new advance for hospitals, who must know clearly what to do with any recovery. A royal decree had been adopted last October to set the framework, but let us not forget that many hospitals were already, before the crisis, in complex financial situations and that they therefore need security and sustainability. We will have to stand by them in their daily efforts by guaranteeing them a long-term vision of their financing for the future. As you know, my group will support this project, knowing also – this is an important point – as the minister himself pointed out in committee, that these measures and this text are waiting for the recommendations of the Covid-19 special committee which will soon be formulated. We're working hard with the experts right now. Thank you all, Minister, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u137	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, what we are voting on is an amalgamation of rules and measures. In the past, most of the measures were regulated by royal or minor decrees, but they expired on 31 March 2021. In order to be somewhat legally correct, such a law is therefore necessary. However, we do not have the role of Parliament, as the honourable Member said. A great deal of power is being given to the Minister for Health and Parliament is being sidelined again. The speed with which Parliament wanted to push the draft is a good example of this. The second reading has therefore rightly given us a little more time to go through everything more thoroughly. It is stated that the measures apply only to the current pandemic, but we believe that the legal text provides for certain measures to apply to other situations. That's what's bothering us. There is a great deal of uncertainty about the strategic stock. The FPS public health is responsible, but there is nothing about the composition or the stockage. It may be assumed that more will be devoted to domestic production or enlargement in Europe in order to be less dependent on distant countries, but there is no word on this either, although the dependence on China, among other things, became painfully evident during the corona crisis and also cost human lives. Apparently, that's still not a priority for the government. In the article-by-article explanation of the FAGG's exceptional powers during the crisis, we see some ambiguity, not to say contradictions. On the one hand, the FAGG has the task of ensuring the regular supply of the health system. On the other hand, the market authority is mentioned when it comes to independence. The FAGG will therefore carry out inspections on the manufacturer of medicinal products, but it will also have to ask the same manufacturer to supply certain essential medicinal products. Minister, it seems to be no problem for you to be a judge and a party. I don't know exactly what to think of the export ban. Looks like you want to, but you can't. Your socialist mind will say that you should, but unfortunately there is Europe. Perhaps there is also an extinguishment post waiting for you and you should not drive too much against the cart of Europe. So you want to be able to declare an export ban, because you probably feel the hot breath of the PVDA, but you cannot, because Europe does not want you to, and you want to keep it to yourself, of course. That is a pity, because other countries do that too, when the point comes to a close. For the current crisis, funding can indeed be regulated in the proposed way and for the time being, but in the future it must be reformed urgently and thoroughly in order to avoid such situations. What was already limp before the crisis was reinforced during the crisis. So let us look at the funding of hospital beds and the IC beds right away, so that we can get rid of the perverse system where patients are kept longer in IC because it is more advantageous. Furthermore, we regret that a genuine test policy is not being chosen decisively. From the beginning of the crisis, we stress the importance of testing, but it does not seem to be getting through. In fact, we know that measuring is not the government's strategy, but we also now see that it is not the government's strategy. Tests in the light of prevention and occupational medicine are excluded from reimbursement. What about the vaccination passport or the coronapass? Vaccination is not mandatory, but free. Testing will be mandatory if you are not vaccinated, but will not be free, or only twice. Even Unia thinks that is a form of discrimination. For data collection in the framework of pharmacovigilance, we follow the comments made by the GBA in order to minimise data collection in order to maximise data management. We believe that that rule is not being respected here. As regards the procedures under Title 12, I would stress that consultation and communication are also important in times of crisis. This has certainly been demonstrated by the current corona crisis. By the way, the crisis has led to alternative forms of consultation such as Zoom, Skype and Teams being introduced. Therefore, allow me to doubt the sincerity of the words 'if possible' or 'if necessary'. Who decides when it's necessary or not? That's the Minister. We have often found here that consultation is often treated as a stepmother. A crisis is just the perfect time not to have to do that difficult consultation "if necessary." That's what we're gonna do. There is also a need for consultation in times of crisis, perhaps even more than usual. Finally, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, too much power is being given to the Minister. There is not enough consultation and advice. The proposed text was tabled too late for discussion in committee and was forwarded very quickly. There is no full place for quick tests. There is insufficient attention to domestic production, which would, however, make us less dependent on distant countries. We are afraid of the creeping re-federalisation of health care and the lack of respect for the Länder. Minister, I will not say that the text does not contain good elements, but all the comments make that we will not support it. We will abstain later this evening.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u138	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the health crisis that we have been going through for almost 18 months is absolutely unprecedented. Undoubtedly, we must be humble in view of the scale of the challenges we face on a daily basis. Above all, we must be responsive and inventive. Indeed, we had probably never had to face a health crisis of such a dimension. It has called into question some of our fundamentals in several areas, including medical matters, but also in terms of the functioning of our institutions. Therefore, in order to combat this pandemic as effectively as possible, it was necessary to take prompt measures and complementary measures, including through the royal decrees of the special powers, in order to ensure the proper functioning of our health system. We know that at the time of our consideration of this draft, the Special Commission covid is still in progress, that several hearings have been held and that the drafting of the recommendations is continuing. Of course, it will be important to take into account the conclusions of the Special Commission and all the lessons of the health crisis, in order to take the lead and to have measures already in place in the event of a future pandemic, which we obviously do not wish, but which remains an eventuality. The Commission's conclusions will naturally be decisive in refining our various proposals in the future. During the successive waves we had to face, we had to face a number of challenges to which we were not necessarily prepared. We are thinking of the establishment of strategic stocks of medical devices, but also of certain medicines. It was therefore essential that this project provide a legal basis for maintaining the strategic stocks of these different products. This is the first part of this project. In this respect, it seems to me that the principle of subsidiarity must be fully applied. I consider it important to establish a general register for the whole country, both for stocks of devices such as masks and ventilation appliances and for stocks of medicines, but also to pay particular attention to what I call the "local dimensions" of storage. Every region, every hospital, every medical facility must be able to dispose of the necessary stocks. The stock allocation policy must be clear and efficient so that care providers are immediately effective and available in the event of an alert, regardless of where they are located. It is also important to fine-tune the regulation of unauthorised medicinal products, in accordance with existing European rules. It also seemed important to anticipate the risk of drug shortages...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u139	I am listening carefully and I fully agree with you, my colleague. The principle of subsidiarity is very important. I'll ask myself questions. You're in the government. You're talking about the strategic stock. We read a great deal in this draft law about powers that are attached to regional powers. How then is it that the government has not asked for advice from the Länder? How is it that, like your government colleagues, you voted away our question for advice? I fully endorse what you say, but you do not apply it!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u140	Mrs Depoorter, I think that blaming any government, whether it is the federal government or the federated entities, not to proceed by concertation of the different levels of power is really against everything that has happened in the last 18 months. In general, all decisions have been taken under cooperation agreements, all decisions that have been implemented since March have been taken in consultation with the federated entities. This kind of reprimand doesn't seem to me to be justified at least. I come back to what I said before you said. It seems important to me to anticipate the risk of a shortage of medicines and medical devices, in particular by equipping the Federal Agency for Drugs and Health Products with the necessary skills that are consistent with its role throughout crisis management. This crisis has obviously had very important effects on hospital structures, which have to cope with different additional costs but also with revenue reductions compared to their usual functioning. Many general medical consultations and hospitalizations did not take place throughout this period, and it was therefore necessary to think about preserving the financial situation of our hospitals. It is known that various royal decrees have already been taken in the past to support these financial needs, allowing an advance of two billion euros broken down between general hospitals, but also psychiatric hospitals. It was possible that the need for such a mechanism would still arise in the future, and it was therefore important to allow hospitals to carry out their tasks, pending a count and the management of definitive compensation for the costs of the pandemic.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u141	Mr Bacquelaine, we are all concerned about the financial situation and the continuity of care. However, you are talking about the thesauri. Mrs Gijbels has tabled an amendment on this, which you have not supported in committee either. Care dome Zorgnet-Icuro says very clearly that advances for hospitals that do not need them can actually be negative. We all know that we are in a situation of negative interest rates. I just said it's not a trigger at all for hospitals that are already in the red, to show some financial orthodoxy. Why do you not seize the opportunity to take part in our amendment on demand and tailored to hospitals and to inform the hospital, firstly, and, secondly, to guarantee advance payments to the hospital, if it is necessary, in such a way that it becomes interactive? We both know that our budget is very red, that our financial situation, very euphemistically, is not optimal. It will all have to be paid for, and it is therefore of the utmost importance that, when we do a financial intervention, it is well founded and that it will apply in the short term. You yourself say that we must find a definitive solution. Hospital funding will indeed have to be adjusted, but I do not understand why the majority cannot support our amendment, which comes from the sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u142	Your comment is not at all contradictory to the project we are looking at today. Everyone is well aware that at some point a count will be required and that definitive compensation for the costs of the pandemic will have to be based on a precise count and analysis. I do not think there is any contradiction with that. As things stand, a cautious approach should therefore be taken. I agree. It should allow resources to be adjusted to meet the needs of the evolving situation that still needs to be calculated, in a repetitive manner. Another major issue in the fight against the pandemic is the testing strategy and its funding. Here too, various measures have been taken in the past. Naturally, it is necessary to offer the possibility of reacting as quickly as possible in the light of the evolution of the epidemic and technological advances in testing. In addition, a testing strategy should be provided that is most appropriate with the most appropriate reimbursement interventions as well. When we talk about the testing strategy, we think, first of all, of the PCR tests that remain the most standard model. However, there are other forms of testing that require special attention. I am thinking of salivary tests, antigenic tests, auto-tests that will also have to be part of an integrated and comprehensive strategy. The other way in which we hope to return as quickly as possible to a certain freedom, to the freedoms dear to us, is obviously the vaccination strategy. Again, I see that there is a focus on raising public awareness and seeking the highest possible rate of membership. However, a few pitfalls still have to be avoided. I understand that patient awareness and adherence to vaccination must be given very strong attention by healthcare providers in particular, and that pharmacists may be able to participate, but I would like to stress two concepts. The first is the need to avoid infantilization of patients and the population. Infantilization is in my eyes counterproductive. It is always true, in particular, with regard to the concept of responsibility. Let us avoid infantilization! Everyone has the necessary useful information and is now in a position to take decisions that are of personal concern to him and that certainly deserve to be respected. The second challenge is to override the concept of consent. Whatever the importance of a health crisis, we must keep in mind the need to count with the patient's consent. About 20 years ago, I took part in the establishment of a law with Magda Aelvoet with whom we did a very extraordinary job at the time: the law on patient law. Today, this law still needs to keep its meaning whatever the seriousness of the crisis we are going through. Indeed, if we want to benefit from public support, respect for personal, individual and privacy data – perhaps the most important in the field of health – we must always count and integrate the need for patient consent, also in the field of vaccination. That is why we decided that vaccination was not mandatory. If it is not, it means that the patient has the choice to decide if he or she is being vaccinated. I advocate it, of course, and, apart from individual protection, it is also a gesture of general solidarity in relation to the overall well-being of society. But I once again stress the role to be played by general practitioners who are, in this context, probably the best able to ensure that adherence to vaccination is as effective as possible. However, I believe that we must clearly recognize that the role, capacity and potential of general practitioners in our country in this area have probably not been exploited to the maximum of what would have been necessary. I also believe that we must move on today to a stage where vaccination must leave the collective field in order to regain its fundamental concept of a medical act. General practitioners must clearly be integrated - much more than they have been - into the future vaccination strategy. As soon as we reach a vaccination rate that gives us collective immunity, which is coming very soon, we will have to go back to a mode of operation that is more based on the relationships between patients and doctors because vaccination is a medical act and must be considered as such. I am, of course, well aware that the use of vaccines naturally implies the introduction of measures relating to traceability and pharmacovigilance. It has to be adapted to the situation. In this context, it was indeed important to implement a system to collect information on the possible adverse effects of certain vaccines on the health of certain people. In this capacity, as I said in one of my previous speeches, it is absolutely necessary to play "vaccine sur table". It's an expression I used at the beginning of the campaign. This is one of the major elements of the population's adherence to the vaccine. Another aspect is the price of medicines. The price reductions under the savings measures relating to reference refunds and the "old medicines" measure are temporarily postponed. I think it was important that this be the case because we must be careful not to create a shortage of medicines today. I am therefore pleased that this project leaves room for this policy, which aims at avoiding the disappearance from the Belgian market of medicines which may be necessary for the care to be provided to patients in the context of the fight against epidemics.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u143	Another aspect of this project, the current era allows us to use new technologies and it is certainly an excellent thing. These technologies are ubiquitous, in our private life or in our professional life. Although the bill is not intended to reduce the possibility of physical contact between health care providers and patients, I wanted to draw attention to the notion of teleconsultation that took on an unprecedented scale during the pandemic. In my view, it must remain a particular method. Indeed, I have deep doubts as to their effectiveness if they were to become a sort of rule. I don't think anything can replace the physical contact between the doctor and his patient. In this regard, teleconsultation does not always allow for the quality that could be expected of a health care system. So I think we need to have some reservations about the extension of this technology in an area which, if we want to focus on quality, remains extremely focused on the singular colloquium. The singular teleconsultation conference seems to me to be an illusion. I said it, and I mean it. Finally, it seemed important to consider the considerable assistance that has been provided by specialist medical candidates - I come back for a moment on this issue. The generalist candidates in training also played a highly significant role in the context of this crisis. Let us remember that a royal decree had already been adopted in the past in order to guarantee the continuity of the internships and to ensure sufficient capacity in the care sector. It was necessary to extend this so that these medical activities carried out by these candidates could be validated as part of their training. It will now be possible. I also think that this brings us back to the condition of medical specialists in training today. I am pleased that an agreement has been reached in this area, but we must probably not stop in such a good way. It will be necessary to go a little further in the status of these medical specialists in training. These are the few remarks that I wanted to make in reviewing this bill. In conclusion, I would like to stress the need to maintain parliamentary scrutiny. There must always be an interaction between the executive and the legislature in relation to all the provisions that are made in this bill. Of course, this bill is not a way to circumvent parliamentary control. There is a need for clarity in this regard. That is the way we see it, and it is in this spirit that the MR group will support this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u144	Madam President, I am somewhat surprised that so few colleagues from the Health Committee are here today for the debate on this important bill. We have been working on this for a year and a half and the lack of interest surprises me. First of all, I would like to comment on the method used by the government. The urgency was requested for a draft law of 66 articles and at first reading the Minister explained a quarter of an hour. That seemed very brief to me. In addition, the committee's entire planning was thrown apart in order to get the draft law through quickly. Although this draft deserved a thorough debate, there were few comments from majority members in committee. We do not agree with these measures, but our criticism is quite different from that of the N-VA colleagues. After all, they called here today for budgetary orthodoxy in the context of health care. After all our hospitals and caregivers have been through, I find that quite amazing. Why do we want to go further into this? We have heard this this afternoon in the debate on the numerus clausus. I am still surprised that there is such a strong case for this today, when we have now seen that we need a lot of healthcare professionals and doctors. We really need to invest in health care. Our criticism therefore goes a whole other way, because with this draft law, the government is in fact putting a failed policy into practice. That is unacceptable to us. The question is whether the government thinks it has handled the pandemic well and that there is no lessons to be drawn from the way it has dealt with the biggest crisis since the Second World War. With this draft law, it certainly seems that way. The government is just going on like it's been going on for a year and a half. The crisis was a real stress test for our healthcare system and its weaknesses emerged. However, no lessons are drawn from this about the years of savings on healthcare staff and, in particular, the lack of preventive and public health care. The draft law does not mention the inefficiency and absurdity of nine Health Ministers, the failure of the test strategy, the vaccination campaign that started with bumps and bumps. It doesn't mention the lessons from the first wave to prevent the second wave and nothing about how in a possible next pandemic we could really succeed in smothering the virus in the germ. Crisis moments are tipping moments. These are moments when the population also learns the workings of society at a rapid rate. After all, the contradictions are being sharpened. Sometimes it's interesting to hear people who are a little further away from us about that. That was the case when the hearing of the special COVID Committee Richard Horton, editor-in-chief of the renowned medical journal The Lancet, said that the Belgian political system has failed. The 14,000 deaths at that time in Belgium could have been avoided. So I will come back to some of the lessons that we need to draw. Firstly, the complex state structure with nine Health Ministers who were literally on each other's feet. It took time and lives. We really need a re-federalisation of health care: one federal minister and not nine. With vague words in the bill such as 'federal loyalty', we will certainly not solve it. The federal level must once again be the focus of political decision-making and there must be a hierarchy of standards. It is absurd to want to further regionalise health care. A recent poll of the VRT and De Standaard shows that a third of the population sees health care as the main theme in the elections and that the preference of almost two thirds of the population goes to more powers at the federal level, more Belgium. Health care must also be brought close to the people. This is not done by transferring the powers from the Wetstraat to Martelarenplein, but by investing structurally in public and preventive health care, close to the people, at local level. That brings in the best health, not looking at what can be most profitable. What we have also learned is that our fragmented, pruned and tired healthcare system was already ill before COVID-19. The division of care, the savings in hospitals, the care staff, the focus on the mainly curative turned out to be the perfect cocktail for a failed approach, with not one, not two, but three waves. In our view, it is time to turn the wheel and invest in quality, public and centralised health care, based on the right to health, which is based on the needs of the community, and which is primarily and much more focused on prevention. Think, for example, of public, local, flat-rate health services that can work on preventing diseases in demarcated populations. In pandemic times they can then guarantee local testing, tracing, vaccination support and sensitisation. With the mask saga, the strategy and now the vaccination, we also learned that the market does not solve our problems. What attitude did the government take? Stand by and look at it. Blips trust that the free market will be able to protect public health, nothing less is true. We need an active government that intervenes actively to set the bar very high, much higher than we have done, to really protect public health and human health and not just to ensure that hospitals are not flooded. A public health strategy that is demand-driven and where the key to health and medicines policy is not in the hands of the pharmaceutical industry, which defends purely private interests, but really in the hands of and with government control, which sets the priorities. These are things we expect to read when the government submits a bill to tackle a pandemic. These are measures that we need to deal with differently, not pour a whole of failed measures into a legislative text. That doesn't make us move forward. There is also an important part of the measures that the government intends to adopt, apart from the pandemic law, which aims at the repressive approach. Apparently, the government does not consider it important to indicate what social measures should be taken in the event of a pandemic. What happens if someone has to go into quarantine and lose pay? What happens if sectors are closed down and can no longer function? What measures are being taken in the event of a next pandemic to support self-employed and workers in sectors that need to close down? I do not know whether you have already looked at the government's website, on which you can read the provisions on quarantine and isolation measures. The bottom line is that people have to stay in their quarters, because otherwise they will be fined and punished. There's not a word about where they can go to ask for or help with quarantine or isolation. A fine won't stop a virus. We must support those people who have to go into isolation or quarantine because of the risk of infection. Let us inspire ourselves on a region like Kerala in India. There is not much money available and yet there is public and preventive health care, local and close to the people. No less than 26,000 health professionals have gone door-to-door to help, guide and isolate patients with onset symptoms. That is what this is about. When people need to be quarantined or isolated, what help can they get to do their shopping or to take care of the children? What's there to do with unemployment and loss of pay? There are many practical issues and concerns which the government does not foul up. I would like to comment on the concrete measures contained in the draft law. The PVDA advocates the possible use of compulsory licences. That possibility was still included in the preliminary draft, but apparently under pressure from industry and perhaps also from certain parties. Mr Minister, during the discussions in committee you indicated, on the one hand, that compulsory licences are already possible in the current legislation, even though you know that this is not the case. On the other hand? You didn't see what patents have to do with an emergency law to fight a pandemic. I find that hard to understand. Today, we are bumping into the wall of intellectual property. We depend on a handful of companies, which, for example, hold the vaccine against COVID-19, despite the fact that billions of public money were invested in it. Surely it is not possible for the government to take action against this? After the biggest crisis since the Second World War, it would be expected that a health emergency law will at least provide an impetus, so that there are guarantees that the millions of euro subsidy and the hard work of dedicated scientists at the end of the journey will not only fall into private hands, purely to make a profit. The concrete instrument of compulsory licences was in the original draft, but the government has withdrawn its tail. That is unacceptable to us. The crisis has taught us that we need concrete tools to scale up the production of essential medicines and tools to meet the needs of the population at some point. For that, compulsory licences are a good instrument. But there is nothing about that in the legal text. The draft law also contains a number of smaller measures, for example with regard to the strategic stock. This is really necessary, but it seems to us to be very vague and shallow. We therefore support Mrs Fonck's amendment, which seeks to ensure that there is more certainty. We need ambitious measures that go beyond just building up a strategic stock. We must also look at our own production of resources in the strategic stock, including medicines and medical devices. We believe that ambitious public investment plans are needed to meet these challenges. A strong public administration needs to maintain its strategic stock in a systematic way so that it can be scaled up quickly. We must agree with companies and impose binding rules on production, which, if possible, must meet the needs of the population. The government then takes a number of measures around the testing strategy. However, it lays down measures which, in the past year, were simply insufficient to implement an effective testing strategy. That decisive test strategy is still not there, by the way. The tests were really the mouth masks of the second wave. The government does not take any lessons from this. What we need is a collective testing and tracing strategy. We also need a strong central and preventive health care system, which can be efficiently scaled up. Testing, tracing and isolation are an essential part of the fight against a pandemic, and we are not able to do it right to this day. In this respect, the public testing platform was a good measure. It went in the right direction, but that good measure is not laid down in this draft law. There is nothing in that and we do not understand that. That public testing platform should be more encouraged and exploited to the fullest extent. That is why we need investment in staff, including the reduction of testing, because we know that there is a problem in this area. A good testing strategy is a public service that we need to be able to deliver to people. We need to take active action in this area, for example against the commercial players who also put profit interests in the labs ahead of health. Think again of the lack of test material, which was partly motivated by a shortage of reagents and wipers. The problem was also that commercial large companies retain control of the technology needed to produce that material. This is still a global problem today, which prevents the rapid roll-out of test kits. I would therefore like to express the opinion of the Nobel laureate Joseph Stiglitz, who said that this type of monopolisation costs human lives. The government must act actively to make clear agreements with industry to ensure that the needs of the population come first. We are thinking of monitoring commercial labs in the field of personnel and delivery of test results. Source detection, cluster and contact studies should be used as much as possible to identify and nip the buds of infections in the bud. We are still nowhere with that either today. The source search is still not there, although we really need it. The longer the infections continue, among other things, in the farms, the longer people need to be quarantined unnecessarily. It is also unacceptable to us that no social measure should be laid down to support the population. It's just about repression and control. Social support in case of quarantine, but also in case of illness and mental problems is passed on to the population itself. The government has not made it a priority and it is one-sidedly focusing on sanctions and repression. However, today's scientific consensus is increasing that workers who, for example, need to be quarantined should not suffer income losses. The British Committee of Experts Independent SAGE and the renowned medical journal The British Medical Journal call for compensation for income losses. As early as June 2020, GEES issued an opinion calling on the federal government to clarify and ideally expand financial compensation during the quarantine. The quarantine policy should be based on maximum support measures, with 100% income retention. Nowhere in the law is there talk of banning the charging of supplements in patients who are admitted to hospitals because of COVID-19. There are other things in this bill that we cannot agree to. The medicines for COVID-19 are taken out of the law on price reductions. All parties supported this, including the Flemish Interest. However, we are talking about old medicines which should be reduced in any case. It is clear where the priorities of the government, but also of the nationalists, lie: to secure the profits of industry and not the interests of patients. The question is what the 'combicliff' will do in this law. What the hell does he have to do with the pandemic? Finally, I would like to make two observations. Firstly, when do these provisions apply? When does the crisis start and end? The first version of the draft law said that a quarterly report had to be submitted to Parliament, but that has disappeared. Finally, we also regret the fact that no action is being taken to bring about genuine consultation in the context of a pandemic. Consultation with the people on the ground, the care providers, the people who work in hospitals, the people who work in the first line and the trade unions. This is also very important for us, because we have seen that the support for the measures was very low. So we will not support this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u145	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make three brief points. This crisis has happened to us over a year and a half ago, if I may put it that way. No one knew at that moment what the future was going to bring. How big it was gonna get, how contagious, how fast, no one knew. The government in current affairs and then the current government, have constantly learned to do so. Agree, react, adapt, constantly learn lessons and adapt legislation and regulations. The fact that all of this, this titanic work that has been opposed, is now laid down in a law, a law that creates a framework for the further development of the approach to this crisis, is, of course, a positive thing. It offers security, it offers a number of anchors. The second element I would like to mention is the special co-vid committee, which has now completed its hearings and is preparing or preparing a number of conclusions and recommendations. It is a good thing that this draft law clarifies that, of course, changes can be made on the basis of these recommendations. So this government is taking lessons from the past, Mrs Merckx, and I trust that it will take the recommendations of the special co-vid committee to heart. A third element, Madam President, as I have said a number of times, is that the trio 'testing, tracing, quarantine' was one of the bases on which we have built to tackle this crisis. Later this was, of course, supplemented by vaccination, during what we already call a very long exit strategy. The fact that this bill builds on the previous laws and ministerial decisions on quick tests and self-tests is, in our view, a good thing. In this way, it provides a basis for rapid response to future evolutions and possibilities of testing, tracing and quarantine. I hear Mrs Merckx say that there is nothing in it about the prohibition of supplements. The ban on supplements is laid down in a legislative text, on a proposal from this Parliament. You know very well, Mrs Merckx. I think we are dealing here with a good design, with the ambition to improve ourselves. That is a good thing in this ongoing crisis, where we never know what the next element will be. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats will vote for this draft law with conviction.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u146	Mrs Jiroflée, I hear you mention the special co-vid committee. We've both been through hours of hearings there. That was very interesting and sometimes very enlightening. I hear you say that the recommendations that take shape in the special co-vid committee will be included in this draft law. I do not understand why the evaluation of the FOD and the FAGG, I think we both agree that mistakes have been made there, is not mentioned in the draft of this legislative text. How do you see that we would take these recommendations with us in concrete terms, while the analyses and findings we have made and on which we have reached a fairly large consensus, together with the experts, are mentioned but not discussed here? There is no mention of this at all. Those flatters, including the fact that the strategic stock has been destroyed and has not been rebuilt, leaving our caregivers naked on the frontline, are not mentioned. It is not said that this evaluation will take place here before we proceed. What you do not mention in your speech, and that is very special, are advances for hospitals. Mr Merckx has just raised the matter. Yes, our group is in favour of financial orthodoxy, but this is important to ensure that the funds are spent on patients and not on expensive structures of loss-making hospitals, which have not been dealt with for years. I understand that from the Forward Group, because you feel the left breath of the Communists in your neck. Defending your left flank is very difficult. But what I do not understand is that our partners in the Flemish government do not consider that financial orthodoxy necessary. They therefore do not consider it necessary to listen to the umbrella of care, which clearly indicates that these advances should be arranged in a different way.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u147	Firstly, it is quite clear, Mr Depoorter, that this law can be amended with elements from the recommendations of the special committee. The Minister has made this very clear. Secondly, it would not be good deontologically, should this draft include a number of elements before our special committee has completed its work. Let's take it easy. We can discuss this tomorrow, and I am sure that the government will take these recommendations into account. For the rest, I just wanted to mention a few elements. I will not repeat the whole discussion in committee here. You seem to like doing that. I believe that this is about expressing whether or not we support this bill and briefly explaining why. That's what I did.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u148	Colleague, I was just about to say it. I think it's brave of you to intervene. A number of members of the majority feel that it is even worth not intervening. Of course, it is not intended to repeat the whole discussion, but I do think it is important enough to consider this. I think we can agree on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u149	We'll think about that all day tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u150	Minister, I will not go back to the way in which the discussions took place in committee, in a terribly one-sided manner on your part and on the part of the parties of the majority government. I should probably be used to it, but I can't really get used to it, nor can I understand how the majority government continues and persists in this terribly partial logic. This may be the evolution of politics, but I must admit that, as far as I am concerned, this way of doing things makes me particularly uncomfortable. It is true that a wind of freedom blows with the approach of the summer, and especially with the successive stages of deconfination. It is also quite paradoxical to note that it is at a time when a wind of freedom is blowing that we are discussing your project. At the same time, minister, your bill comes in a context in which the figures are rather good in Belgium, but also in a context in which clear threats persist, especially with the variants, including the famous Indian variant – renamed Delta – which circulates much faster than the English variant, which itself was already circulating much faster than the covid strain. This Indian variant is responsible for more severe pathologies, especially in relation to the English variant and therefore, a fortiori, in relation to the covid strain. There is also a series of questions about the partial resistance of the Indian variant to the vaccine, especially when there is only one dose of vaccine, or when there is much more fragile or immunocompromised people. Your responsibility as Minister of Health, even in a context that reveals an improvement in figures in Belgium, is to strengthen our lines of defence. Our lines of defence on vaccination, which must indeed be further accelerated, not only because of this Indian variant, but also because some cities and municipalities are clearly behind schedule and have a lower vaccination rate. There is therefore a weakness with regard to the general approach to vaccination in our territory. Your duty is to strengthen our lines of defence on a much more massive systematic screening and on a much more thorough tracing, in order to track variants in every corner. You must also strengthen our defence lines through a policy of accompaniment and isolation – the effective character of which is still lacking in Belgium. Our "test, trace and isolate" strategy is too light, while a combative mode should have been deployed in the last year. Your responsibility as Minister of Health is also to strengthen our defence lines to track these variants, as well as to limit and prevent their arrival in our territory. Finally, it is to consolidate our defence in terms of ventilation. Indeed, for the past year, we know very well how fundamental it is, given the aerosolization of the virus, as the scientific publications have shown in a multiplying way. So few concrete measures have been taken in Belgium in this area. It's catastrophic. We're almost at the end of June. Soon, it'll be back in class. Schools will be at risk again: with the fall and the closing of doors and windows, they should all be equipped, at least, with a CO2 sensor. It is the responsibility of the authorities to make it available in each class, as well as in crèches. All these aspects remain the subject of vague discussions. Ministers recognized the importance of this, but from speech to speech, the point of achievement. And don't tell me that this is not within your jurisdiction, minister; I'm telling you as I think it is; I don't care! A strategy to combat the pandemic is being discussed. Your responsibility is that of the nine Ministers of Health: make us much more effective in case, in the coming weeks and months, we experience difficulties with the Delta variant or others – which I obviously do not hope for. The standard gold clearly defined scientifically, to avoid bad evolutions and new transmissions, while maintaining the open economy is not just vaccination. However, our country is focusing on this strategy. Of course, it is indispensable and fundamental. However, rapid screening – at the time and place chosen by each citizen, especially for those who are not vaccinated – is part of a strategy that is perfectly accepted in the gold standards. A vaccination-only strategy is an error in dealing with at-risk variants. Focusing most of the resources only on vaccines to the detriment of virtually all other public health efforts for more than a year has cost too many lives. On this point, minister, your bill is a terrible weakness. Where your duty as Minister of Health, in the international pandemic context, was to include in your bill a much stronger strategy in case, it is in a completely different context that you present the content as it will be voted on today. My first criticism of your bill is that you are reproducing the mistakes of the past twelve months. As far as vaccination is concerned, you persist in not closely and strongly involving general practitioners in home vaccination. You have invoked all possible and imaginable logistical reasons that allegedly prevented vaccination, in addition to vaccination centres, by general practitioners at home or at their office. The reality today is that a whole series of countries have done so without any worries. On the contrary, this has enabled them to deploy vaccination more effectively by combining a mixed approach, vaccination centre and vaccination centre where patients are, i.e. in general practitioners and hospitals. As I have just said, logistical reasons that allegedly made things impossible have been presented to us. Was there only a communication in Belgium to explain that the Pfizer vaccine could be stored in the refrigerator? No! Either the doctors followed up on PubMed with all the publications on the covid-19 and were aware of it, or they did not and were not aware of it. Did this motivate the authorities to change their strategy and stop calling for bad logistical reasons? No! We come to such a point that in Brussels, Mr. Minister, it is people on a bicycle who are going to vaccinate at home while general practitioners still have to follow a lot of procedures in order to be able to vaccinate their patients at the office or at home. This is a mistake all the more important as the delay in vaccination in a number of cities and municipalities which have a significantly lower rate than the Belgian average or, even, the average in their region or province, demonstrates how crucial the proximity vaccination approach is. This strategic choice of the nine Ministers of Health is, for me, very bad. You also reproduce the errors of the last twelve months on the testing. In a model that remains light, while warrior mode is needed, you refuse an approach as applied now for benchmarks in a series of other countries. You remain focused on PCR tests while antigenic tests were considered effective in the literature for massive screening to control contamination. Slovakia has been a pioneer in this area. Antigenic tests in Belgium are still strictly limited for political reasons that I do not explain. You repeat this now during vacations for travellers. To go to France or Italy, an antigenic test is enough. In Belgium, we have to do a PCR test. Moreover, there is no consideration of the possibility of an antigenic test, which is much cheaper for public authorities, which is less invasive since the sample goes less far. I would also point out that antigenic tests can be carried out either by salivary or by oropharyngeal sampling. Finally, as far as self-testing is concerned, it is also strictly limited, where a much more ambitious public health policy, free of charge for all those who have not yet benefited from double vaccination, could bring a major added value, not only for travel but also for high-risk activities in Belgium. This should become a form of reflex, such as wearing the mask and barrier gestures, especially in the area of hand hygiene. But Belgium considers this to be expensive. Yes, it costs but it costs a lot more not to do it, it costs a lot more to confine, it costs a lot more both human, social and economic. You also reproduce the mistakes made with regard to stocks of protective products and equipment – strategic stocks – since you deliberately renounce a coherent inventory system. The majority make the deliberate political choice not to include, for example, nursing homes (MR) and nursing homes (MRS) in the obligation to provide AFMPS with a record of stocks of protective products and equipment. I had introduced, in particular on this point, an amendment to incorporate, since we know how much it is necessary, a cross-sectional vision in order to be as effective as possible. You argued that my amendment was not correct, because we are in the federal government, and the federal government does not have jurisdiction over MR and MRS. The Council of State has validated my amendment, Minister. The Council of State therefore says exactly the opposite. Despite this, I am representing him today, but there is no doubt that, in its partisan logic, the government and the parties of the majority will not support him. But through this, you are abandoning a much more coherent system through a more effective approach to these strategic stocks and thus to the fight against pandemics. Is it worth recalling that not having the information on stocks of NRs and SRMs - whose management of the pandemic has shown that they have a major role to play and that they may suffer from a cruel shortage of products and equipment - is likely to be a major problem? Should it be recalled that half of all deaths occurred in MR and MRS? Despite this, despite the convergence of all experts to say that an approach is needed between all levels of power and that on the strategic stocks side, it is crucial not only today but also tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, you persist and give up an approach that is validated by all experts. Is it necessary to recall here the disarray of NRs who did not have adequate stock available? Should we recall, Minister, the recent deaths of a series of residents – who have been vaccinated – in an MR in Nivelles, clearly linked to the delta variant? This demonstrates the need for the strategy to integrate all levels of power, including NCMs and SRMs that are places where people are particularly vulnerable. You also repeat the mistakes of recent months, when you decide to leave aside some fundamental points such as, for example, clarifying political governance in the event of a pandemic. Should we recall the incessant ping-pong games between the various health ministers? In my view, your predecessor will agree with me on this point. You also leave aside the importance of a permanent health safety device. You also leave aside the importance of integrating hospital contingency plans with the front line and institutions, such as nursing homes. So you said, with the whole majority behind you, you want to wait for the conclusions of the Special Commission Covid. I think it's unheard of. It is unheard of in view of the seriousness of the pandemic. It is unheard of in view of the vital importance of strengthening, not for future pandemics but immediately, our defence lines. In addition, you even go, for some points, just in the opposite direction of everything that the experts plead and have pleaded in the Special Commission covid. They insisted that these devices be urgently modified. As you understand, this is my first major criticism of your bill, which I have supported with a series of examples. My second criticism relates to the continuing blurry on various points of your bill and your refusal to clarify these points to remove the blur. This is the case, for example, of the point on the splitting of vaccines by doctors and nurses. I look at an excerpt from your draft in the explanatory memorandum and in the commentary to the articles. You note that these vaccine fractionation and preparation operations should be limited to pharmacists in a pharmacy, pharmacies in a hospital setting or, if necessary, pharmaceutical experts outside a pharmacy. When I asked you at first reading, minister, you told me loud and clear that no doctor and no nurse had done or had split covid vaccines. I explained it to you. I have illustrated this to you, since, personally, I am also involved. Like many others, I split this vaccine. You then changed your speech at second reading. But there is still a major ambiguity in this regard. In fact, if there was no problem, I would not understand why you drafted specific points in your bill on this aspect. Yet it is a question that could come back through the question of responsibility. To remove any ambiguity on this point, I have proposed and continue to propose, to be able to improve your bill by explicitly providing that not only pharmacists, but also doctors and nurses, will be able to perform fractionation or preparation as part of this covid vaccination campaign. Again, on this aspect, the Council of State has validated my amendment. I always speak about the criticism of the blurry and your refusal to clarify certain points. You have refused to clarify the various potential responsibilities for the occurrence of vaccine-related side effects. That was and remains extremely important. I am thinking of patients who, tomorrow, will experience side effects, whatever their type, but especially when significant side effects occur. I am thinking of the way in which all this risks being brought to justice. The procedures are likely to be lengthy and difficult. Unfortunately, in the face of people who would have been victims of side effects of the vaccine, there will be ping-pong procedures between a doctor, the state, and pharmaceutical companies. There is still a lack of clarity regarding procedures relating to medicinal products or in-house devices, in the light of the opinion of the Council of State, which makes a general reservation as to the compatibility with European law. My third criticism of your bill is about how you arrogate power over the whole aspect of telemedicine. You want to regulate it by royal decree. Telemedicine can bring the best, but we must also avoid the worst, and especially think of beacons that guarantee the quality of care and medicine, to protect the most fragile people. All these reasons lead me to believe that a particular law is necessary for telemedicine. Now, through this bill, you choose to arrogate all power over this matter by passing, in the future, by a simple royal decree. For us, this is unacceptable. My fourth criticism relates to how this project puts into practice the capacity of the Minister of Health – yours, in this case – to boycott consultation with health actors. However, history in general and that of this pandemic in particular have shown how much it was a mistake and how much more effective we would have been collectively if the people concerned had been more and better involved from the beginning – and even more recently – in the development of procedures for the control mechanisms. In addition to these criticisms, we support two aspects of your bill: on the one hand, the extension of the recognition of internships for medical candidates specialists (MACCS) and, on the other hand, the financial advances to hospitals. However, on this point, let me repeat, for the tenth or twentieth time, in general, that the recoverable nature of these advances – which could not be recovered for several years – is likely to weaken the situation of hospitals whose financial health is already precarious. Of course, a reform is being considered. However, in the transition from their current funding to that provided for in their reform, we need funding guarantees that remove uncertainty from hospitals and enable them to function properly, all the more so in view of the three waves that we have been through. Therefore, we will support both aspects of your bill. That is why I asked for a separate vote. For the rest, minister, we will vote against your bill. Indeed, where your duty was to strengthen defence lines when necessary, where it was intended to maximize public health efforts through stronger and more effective mechanisms – not just for future pandemics, but already for the coming weeks and months – your bill completely misses the goal. In this pandemic, Minister, we must plan, plan for the worst and hope for the best. Your responsibility was also to predict the worst, hoping, of course, that you would no longer need it. It is for all these reasons that we will vote, apart from the two points I have made, against your bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u151	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we discussed at length earlier the added value of referring amendments to the legislation section of the Council of State for bills such as this one, which are necessary, it is true, when it comes to obtaining a framework that draws lessons from this crisis management. Indeed, when we read the opinion on the amendments to this bill, we can see how much it can inform our choices and how much it, even if it is essential, could be corrected on certain points. With regard to the identity of the vaccinator, the bill states that it must be included in the registration data for the Federal Agency for Medicines and Health Products. During the panel discussions, Minister, you highlighted the importance of knowing the identity of the vaccine provider as it would be useful, in the event of side effects, for the vaccine provider to be able to provide information about the patient. However, in the vast majority of cases, the vaccine doctor cannot provide this information because he simply does not know the patient's file. Therefore, the State cannot require that it assume responsibility for an obligation that it would in fact be unable to fulfil. The amendment to remove the identity of the vaccinator from the data for the Federal Agency for Drugs and Health Products therefore makes sense. As far as splitting is concerned, it is inconceivable that the bill will retroactively legalize the actions taken by pharmacists, but not those carried out by nurses and doctors, even though they have largely contributed to the preparatory acts for vaccination. These doctors and nurses must also have their responsibility covered by a legal framework retroactive to December 1, 2020, as is the case for pharmacists. With regard to the amendment on this issue, the Council of State has also indicated that this amendment will have to be supplemented by other relevant health professionals. With respect to strategic stocks, the bill allows you to put in place rules on the operational management of stocks. The terms used under Chapter 1 of Title 3 of the project also leave a wide margin of appreciation to the Minister. Therefore, the bill does not require the maintenance of a strategic stock of protective equipment and drugs. The observation of the special committee covid is however crazy since without this obligation we had a strategic stock that was destroyed without ever being renewed. The bill probably remains problematic on a whole series of points that have been developed by some colleagues. So I'm just going to stick to a few. I regret, for example, the complete freedom of the government to dispense with any consultation with the actors on the ground if it considers it necessary. It seems to me that prior consultation is a minimum, even in the event of a health emergency. This is also the unanimous observation made by the actors on the ground who were interviewed in the special committee covid, namely that the lack of consultation is just totally counterproductive. Another point of inquiry is that of testing. While we know how much it has been and is still a pillar of our exit from the crisis, this bill does not allow the costs of testing required by employers, private bodies or for preventive purposes by the public authorities to be reimbursed. The cost of the equipment for these tests is also not reimbursed. Of course, the project indicates that the King will be able to determine which indications will be reimbursed, but it does not in any case provide sufficient assurance in the face of repeated tests which can eventually become extremely expensive. There is also telemedicine or teleconsultation. Some voices have legitimately stood to regret that such an important part of our health care system is ultimately left to the discretion of the government and not to Parliament. I fully agree with this finding since the bill allows the King to define the modalities that will surround telemedicine. Mr.Minister, you have also indicated in committee that the bill only regulates a number of essential points, but there is no detail in this bill. You also announced that a broader debate on telemedicine would be held later in consultation with all the actors involved. It is certain that my group and I will ensure that this is the case. For all these reasons, colleagues, you will understand that we will only be able to abstain on this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u152	Madam President, I listened very carefully to the speeches. For many punctual remarks, I refer to the debate in committee. I am thinking, among other things, of the whole debate on advance payments, stocks in residential care centres, the role of doctors and other doctors and paramedics in vaccination centres. Let me remind you of a few broad lines. This is not a general pandemic law. If that were the case, this draft would indeed be very inadequate. I explained in committee that we are waiting for the conclusions of the special COOVID-19 committee to determine, in a structural and final legal way, how to deal with a crisis. I could count on the support of the majority and even part of the opposition. This draft law contains a set of measures and the legal basis for measures that are urgent and necessary in the context of this crisis, with the possibility of applying or re-applying such measures for a number of years. It is therefore indeed a collection of specific interventions and a legal basis for specific interventions. Thematically, it is very important that this bill should enable us to secure the supply of medicines and medical devices for our health care. It is also very important that we make arrangements for the financing of hospitals. Essentially, we are ensuring that hospitals are compensated according to the costs incurred and the lower revenues during the COOVID-19 pandemic. This concession is not provided for in this draft law. She has to be adequate. The hospital sector has been consulted for a very long time on this concession and an agreement has been reached. The possibility of an advance on that allowance is regulated here. Mrs Depoorter, wanting to deal with the excess of advance payments and thesaurus again only brings with it additional administration and bureaucracy. Moreover, it brings too much thesauri and on advance no interest costs. I have said this many times in the committee debate. So there's no downside for hospitals. Mrs Fonck, in principle we are talking about compensation for costs and other comprehensive income. There's an advance on that. If the advance is more than what is justified by the idea that costs should be reimbursed and lost revenue, there is too much advance. We're just gonna sit there and argue with each other. I will not repeat all the arguments. Mrs Depoorter, I have often said that there is no obligation for us to seek an opinion from the Länder. This draft is essentially about federal powers. There is therefore no need to seek advice from the Länder. We are trying to work well with the Länder, but I would also like to refer to what I said in committee. I would also like to refer to what I said in committee regarding entry into force and non-entry into force. Indeed, there are different dates in this draft for its withdrawal. This also has to do with the fact that the design is a collection of a number of punctual elements, which indeed require different dates for non-entry. That can be complicated, but that's very motivated. Monsieur Rigot, Monsieur Bacquelaine and Mrs Jiroflée have correctly summarised the objectives of this draft. I have already given two thematically, namely the provision of supplies and the correct financing of hospitals. Thirdly, this is a legal framework to enable new developments in testing, in terms of admission, reimbursement and so on. We will also use this when we make a PCR test twice free for those who have not had the chance to be vaccinated. That decision will apply this legislation. Nor will I repeat what I said in committee about the responsibility of doctors and the debate on fractionation versus medication preparation. Mrs Fonck, as far as stocks in nursing homes are concerned, it is not because the Council of State says that it is legally correct that this is relevant. I said in the debate in committee that stocks in nursing homes are not relevant to the objective that is being pursued here. I have explained it; I am not going to explain it again. Small stocks are intended for use by residents. This is not what needs to be listed when making a stock policy. But we have had this debate, I am not going to resume it. Madam President, I would like to make some general comments, because there were some elements that struck me in this debate. Mrs. Fonck says, "You repeat the mistakes." The vaccination campaign was, according to Mrs Fonck, a "accumulation of errors". May I say something positive, perhaps?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u153	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u154	All right, general practitioners. May I return, now, today, to something that has been debated here many times? We have organized a centralized invitation, and therefore collectively, of patients with co-morbidities. How many times have I been criticized in this chamber because we were organizing a centralized invitation for patients with co-morbidities? It was obviously based on the data of the general practitioners. How many times have we been criticized for this? I believe that we are one of the few countries that has been able to give priority in the campaign to patients with co-morbidities, massively and early. The effectiveness of our campaign so far has been to first vaccinate the elderly, and then vaccinate patients with co-morbidities, who are vulnerable. In fact, I think there are few countries that have been able to achieve this. We have done so through instruments such as the Global Medical Record (GMD), thanks to the efforts of general practitioners, in this spirit of a collective approach. I think it's a great success. That was not a mistake. It's a great success! If, today, vaccination in Belgium seems to have an even more positive impact than one might have hoped, it is perhaps precisely because we had this organization: first the elderly, then the people with comorbidities and who are ultra-vulnerable. It's a hypothesis, but at least I think it's a great success to which general practitioners have contributed. Mrs Depoorter, you have repeated how terrible the vaccination campaign has been. You spoke of state conduct. I'll tell Wouter Beke that the N-VA in the Chamber thinks that Minister Beke and I are organizing a terrible campaign, a state-led campaign. I do not know whether your group is saying the same thing in the Flemish Parliament. I suppose. I hope Prime Minister Jambon can finally stop Minister Beke's malheur. It must be bad in the Flemish government, if I hear you. You think that this campaign is state-led and terrible, and you keep repeating it. I look and listen to that with surprise. I think Minister Beke is doing an excellent job and I am grateful to him for that. I don't have a problem with that. He is not a member of my party, but he is doing an excellent job. I am grateful to him for that in a very well organized campaign, which of course has not been easy. Because we need to protect ourselves from dangerous variants. We need to run PCR tests to do the sequencing. That is one of the reasons, and we can debate it at length. We are not totally stupid in the decisions we make. Sometimes there are a few reasons to make a decision, to define a strategy. I allow myself to say this in this way because, to hear you, it seems to be an accumulation of illogical, implausible decisions. The reason why we prefer PCR tests also as far as travellers are concerned is just that! Madam President, I am going too far in the debate. However, the design is necessary and I am glad that we have got this far. The measures are necessary and when the draft is published as a law, I will immediately be able to provide free PCR tests to those who have not yet had a chance to be vaccinated. We will also be able to conduct proper stock management in order to protect public health. We will be able to give the hospitals a correct advance, for the third time, in order to implement the scheme of reimbursement of the costs they have incurred. That's important. There are some elements of reaction.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u155	Minister, I thought it was an enlightening statement. In fact, you admit that you come here with a faint cook-off of what you would have liked to present. You have admitted it: it is not a general pandemic law, it is a mess of measures that stop and can come back into force on different dates, for which you also have no derived criteria when one stops and the other does not. You have actually admitted it, and it is to your credit that you admit that in your second sitting you are actually only taking half a test. We agree on that. What you did not answer and what I would like to receive a punctual answer to is whether you have provided an evaluation. Is there an evaluation under way by the FAGG at the moment? Is there an evaluation under way by the FPS Health Department? I would like to have a precise answer to that, because that is important to me. You say you're coming up with urgent action. Urgent surgery after a year, that's very fast, isn't it? What you're saying about the hospital advances, that's the essence of it, but the execution isn't, I'm sticking with it. You say that this was discussed with the sector, but how come you have not heard the main Flemish dome of care about this? Can you give me an answer to the question whether they can evolve into a five-year interest-free loan? After all, we have that concern. Then there is the obligation to consult the Länder. In fact, you have given a very good answer. You're saying it's essentially about federal jurisdiction. After all, you say that it is essentially about federal powers. However, you forget to mention that you are touching on regional powers and that you do not consider it necessary to consult. However, you do use the words 'federal loyalty'. The message about the vaccination campaign brings you very positive. You're a very good communicator. We all know that. You present the positive points of your vaccination campaign. Of course, there are good things about that. However, you still have a problem, namely the willingness to be vaccinated and the fact that the latest invitations have already been sent out in Wallonia and many patients are waiting for a vaccine in Flanders. If you are working so well with the Länder, I invite you to ensure next week at the IMC that the Flemings who are waiting for a vaccine will also receive that vaccine, and that you do a redistribution of the vaccines for the benefit of the regions in which patients are effectively waiting and want to start their summer. You are talking about 'efficacity' and a very efficient campaign. However, do you dare to ask how many extra sick we count in our country because of the slowness of the campaign? Do you dare ask that question? What you do do is bring a hypothesis of comorbidity. I'm not used to you bringing no facts, but hypotheses. Finally, Minister, I would like to talk about state discipline. It's a pleasure for you to mention that. Of course, it is a good thing that you are constantly putting forward your ideology. I just heard it when another speaker was talking about the national testing platform and about being the devil about making profits. It's the devil that the pharmaceutical sector and the clinical private labs would make a profit. That's right. The National Test Platform means paying for 2,000 tests that are not carried out. What struck me was that even the liberal parties did not even feel the need to react. Why should we have an opposition if the liberals are not even liberal anymore? Mr. Secretary, that's conduct. I shall come back to vaccination, because you put words in my mouth that I did not say. I was talking about the reboost, the vaccination 2.0, about the lack of foresight, about the lack of the situation with which we live today, which was chosen, on which there was indeed consensus at the Inter-Ministerial Conference. However, you refuse to think in this text about a vaccination 2.0 that can be carried out in the first line with the general practitioner. That's state-of-the-art conduct. If we are talking about the Flemish Government, I repeat, you have subscribed 50 million in order to buy rapid tests, which the entrepreneurs in Flanders can order from you, free of charge. You'd rather play distributor than give our companies, which are already struggling, who have reoriented themselves, the chance to sell these quick tests to their customers. That's too bad. It is a good thing for you, because you have your ideology, but I am really asking a lot of questions. There must have been discussions in the drafting of this bill. I take it you can't choose everything you put forward in it. Your coalition partners have agreed to this and will support that dark red regime. Even in a discussion like this, they do not think it is necessary to take the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u156	Mr Minister, in substance, we agree on one point. You say that your bill contains the basic features. Indeed, they are basic devices. But more than a year after the outbreak of the pandemic, we can no longer settle for basic devices. What was expected and should have been achieved is a strategy to reinforce our defence lines to avoid the strategy of containment/definition known for many months now and in the event that variants hit our door or multiply in a particular way. Epidemiological data from the United Kingdom are, for the time being, quite intriguing, while the vaccination rate is higher than in the United Kingdom. This must lead us to use this summer to strengthen our defence lines massively - not like last summer to take advantage of a better situation because we all want a little relaxation. I come to a few more specific points. You tell me that it would not be interesting to have an overview of stocks (protection equipment, various products, etc.) by integrating the rest homes, because they represent only a very small number. It's not just the residents who put masks in the rest homes, minister. There are also all the caregivers. Unfortunately, they are a potential vector in this area. In addition, in your section 7 bill, the various structures must be able to communicate information to the AFMPS on the status of their stocks. Among these structures, some actually use an extremely small number of masks. But as far as rest homes are concerned, in a pandemic situation, this can be very large quantities. As far as vaccination and general practitioners are concerned, I hear your answer. From the beginning, I've pleaded that we associate general practitioners, not just to give lists. And again, remember: it was the mutuals who made the lists, then the general practitioners had to recover the things because a series of information was obviously not available. My point is not to ask that general practitioners be involved in determining which patients should be vaccinated as a matter of priority. My words have never changed since the beginning. The aim is, in addition to vaccination centres, to allow general practitioners to vaccinate patients where they are. Where the most difficult patients are, those who hesitate and have doubts, those who will only be vaccinated if it is by a trusted person, such as their general practitioner. I say this again: we see some communes, in the Brussels-Capital Region, but also in Wallonia, in the province of Hainaut, in the province of Liège, which sometimes have significantly lower vaccination rates than those of the region's average. This must challenge and push the authorities to deploy reinforcement devices, including, I repeat, by involving the general practitioner. I think he will be able to vaccinate people who so far had doubts, hesitations, unwillingness or inability to travel to the vaccination centre. Existing systems do not necessarily allow this. The third point I wanted to mention is the PCR, for two reasons. On the sequencing side, we are not going to go into a technical question here, but I do not share your point. I'm not talking about the usefulness of sequencing. On this point, I fully agree with you. On the other hand, I am not on how we can also work on variants and on antigenics. In short, we are not going to go into this debate. On the other hand, you are motivating the PCR for travellers who return to Belgium, whether they are foreign tourists or travellers, or Belgians who return to Belgium and who may have been contaminated by a variant in the outside countries. All right, no problem. That's not what I was talking about, minister. I was talking to you about Belgians going to another country, who have not had any special contacts in Belgium, who are not people in contact with people at high risk, who are not symptomatic and who have to go to a country X or Y for tourism. In a number of European countries, an antigenic test is sufficient. It was in this sense, of course, that I questioned you earlier. Madam President, I do not think it would be useful to extend the debate. Not everything has been said about what could be discussed on this bill, but in any case each one's positons have been expressed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u157	Madam President, I asked the Minister another question, but I did not receive an answer. Is there an evaluation study conducted by the FAGG and the FOD?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u158	I refer to the repeated replies to this frequently asked question in committee. I believe that I have already replied to this question here in connection with the oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u159	Madam President, I just want to ask whether there is an evaluation going on. Minister, the answer is yes or no.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u160	The Minister claims to have replied.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u161	Madam President, as regards the report, I wish to make it clear that the Minister is not giving me an answer to the question of whether there is currently an evaluation within the FAGG and the Public Health Office.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u162	Mrs Depoorter, your memory seems to be short, but I don't blame you. You have asked this several times, and I have already said several times that we are taking this into account in the existing evaluation procedures. We do not carry out a specific evaluation of the FAGG's actions during the period of the pandemic or the period during which the purchases were made, but the current evaluations of the senior officials and the implementation of administrative agreements and so on are taken into account. I have said that many times, so I will repeat it again.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u163	Can you confirm that for the FOD, Mr. Secretary?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u164	For the 35th time, I confirm the same thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u165	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u166	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1929/5) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1929/5) The bill has 66 articles. The draft law has 66 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u167	· 28 years old Kathleen Depoorter (1929/11)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u168	· 29 years old Kathleen Depoorter (1929/11) · 32 – Catherine Fonck (1929/11)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u169	· 34 – Catherine Fonck (1929/11)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u170	· 41 " Kathleen Depoorter" (1929/11)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u171	· 21 " Kathleen Depoorter" (1929/11)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u172	· 40 – Sofie Merckx (1929/11)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u173	· 22 " Kathleen Depoorter" (1929/11) · 33 – Catherine Fonck (1929/11) · 27... Kathleen Depoorter (1929/11)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u174	· 42... Frieda Gijbels (1929/11)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u175	· 43... Frieda Gijbels (1929/11)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u176	· 39 – Catherine Fonck (1929/11)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u177	· 23 " Kathleen Depoorter" (1929/11) · 35 – Catherine Fonck (1929/11)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u178	· 36 – Catherine Fonck (1929/11)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u179	· 30 – Catherine Fonck (1929/11)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u180	· 37 – Catherine Fonck (1929/11)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u181	· 24 years old Frieda Gijbels (1929/11)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u182	· 31 – Catherine Fonck (1929/11)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u183	At the request of Mrs Catherine Fonck, a split vote on Articles 29 to 33 and Article 60 will be taken at a later stage. This before the vote on the whole. At the request of Mrs Catherine Fonck, there will be a split vote on Rules 29 and 30 and on Rule 60. This was before the vote on the whole. The discussion of the articles is closed. Subsequently, the vote on the amendments and the articles and, at the request of Mrs Catherine Fonck, the divided vote on Articles 29 to 33, 60 and on the whole will be taken. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the Rules will take place at a later date and, at the request of Mrs Catherine Fonck, the split vote on Rules 29 to 33, 60 and on the whole.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u184	By e-mail of 7 June 2021, the Ecolo-Groen Group sent MM's candidacy. Kristof Calvo and Guillaume Defossé respectively as an effective member and alternate member of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly. By e-mail of 7 June 2021, the Ecolo Green Group gave me the candidacy of Mr Kristof Calvo and Mr Guillaume Defossé, respectively, as effective member and alternate member of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly. Since there are no other candidates, there is no vote, in accordance with Rule 157(6) of the Rules of Procedure, and I declare Messrs. Kristof Calvo and Guillaume Defossé elected as effective and alternate members respectively to the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly. As there are no other candidates, Rule 157 (6) of the Rules of Procedure requires no vote and I declare Mr Kristof Calvo and Mr Guillaume Defossé respectively elected as permanent members and alternate members of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u185	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 9 June 2021, I propose that you extend until Thursday 17 June 2021 4 p.m. the time limit for: - the appointment of the alternate member of Mr Didier Dochain to the Boards of Directors of Unia/Myria (No 1987/1); - the appointment of the alternate member of Ms. Shaireen Aftab to the Boards of Directors of Unia/Myria (No. 1988/1); - the appointment of effective members in the context of the renewal of half of the terms of office of the Commissions of Appointment for the Notariat (No. 1989/1); - the appointment of a French-speaking member and a Dutch-speaking member of the Knowledge Centre of the Data Protection Authority (No. 2039/1); - and the appointment of two members of the Chamber for the Conference on the Future of Europe. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 9 June 2021, I propose that the deadline until Thursday 17 June 2021 be extended to 16 hours for: - the designation of the Deputy Member of Mr Didier Dochain on the Boards of Unia/Myria (No. 1987/1); - the designation of Mrs Sharieen Aftab's alternate member on the boards of Unia/Myria (No. 1988/1); - the appointment of permanent members as part of the renewal of half of the mandates of the Notarial Appointment Committees (No. 1989/1); - the appointment of a French-speaking member and a Dutch-speaking member of the Knowledge Centre of the Data Protection Authority (No. 2039/1); - and the appointment of two MPs for the Conference on the Future of Europe. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u186	In accordance with the decision of the plenary meeting of 22 April 2021, a second call for candidates was published in the Belgian Monitor of 26 April 2021 for the term of office of Dutch-speaking member in the category ′′magistrat or professor of law′′ and for the term of office of French-speaking and Dutch-speaking member for the category ′′former agents′′′ of the Federal Commission of Ethics. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 22 April 2021, a second call for candidates was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 26 April 2021 for the mandates of the Dutch-speaking Member for the category ′′magistraat or professor′′ and for the mandates of the Dutch-speaking and French-speaking Member for the category ′′ former officials′′ of the Federal Deontological Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u187	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 9 June 2021, I propose that you publish a new call for candidates to the Belgian Monitor for the terms of French-speaking and Dutch-speaking members for the category ′′former agents′′′ of the Federal Ethics Commission. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 9 June 2021, I propose that you publish a new call to candidates in the Belgian Official Journal for the mandates of Dutch-speaking and French-speaking Member for the category ′′ former officials′′ of the Federal Deontological Commission. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u188	In accordance with the decision of the plenary meeting of 22 April 2021, a third call for candidates was published in the Belgian Monitor of 26 April 2021 for the terms of office of: - effective French-speaking member for the subcategory ′′ in charge of medical courses or professor′′ and for the category ′′ in charge of the problem′′;
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u189	In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 22 April 2021, a third call for candidates was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 26 April 2021 for the mandates of:
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u190	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 9 June 2021, I propose that you publish a fourth call for candidates to the Belgian Monitor for categories for which the number of applications submitted is insufficient. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 9 June 2021, I propose to publish a fourth call to candidates in the Belgian Official Journal for the categories for which insufficient applications have been submitted. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u191	In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 22 April 2021, a call for candidates was published in the Belgian Monitor of 26 April 2021 for the term of office of a Dutch-speaking effective member – member of the bureau of the Central Prison Supervision Board. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 22 April 2021, a call for candidates was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 26 April 2021 for the mandate of an effective Dutch-speaking Member of the Office of the Central Supervisory Board for the Prisons.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u192	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 9 June 2021, I propose that you forward the curriculum vitae of the candidates to the political groups and the Committee on Justice will proceed to the hearing of the two candidates. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 9 June 2021, I propose to deliver the curriculum vitae of candidates to the political groups and both candidates will be heard by the Justice Committee. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u193	The government requested urgency pursuant to rule 51 of the Regulations when the bill on temporary support measures was introduced in response to the VOCID-19 pandemic, No. 2002/1. The Government has requested the urgency statement, pursuant to Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure, when submitting the draft law providing temporary support measures as a result of the COOVID-19 pandemic, No 2002/1. I give the floor to the government to develop the emergency request. I give the floor to the Government to explain the urgency question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u194	Ladies and gentlemen, the provisions of the draft give effect to the decisions taken in the context of the granting of temporary support measures to mitigate as quickly as possible the fiscal and socio-economic consequences of the emergency measures taken to limit the spread of the Covid-19 corona virus.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u195	Madam President, is this a project that is already in committee and which, despite that, would call for urgency?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u196	Exactly. The request for urgency is justifiable even if the text is already under consideration.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u197	From now on, everything goes through the urgency of the government and the majority! I do not see much interest if the text is already in committee. Of which act.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u198	I think it's a question of reporting, Mrs Fonck. I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u199	You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. If there are no comments on this subject, I consider that these proposals have been taken into account. I refer the proposals to the committees responsible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If there is no objection, I consider the consideration of these proposals to be adopted. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be forwarded to the committees responsible. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. There are no emergency requests.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u200	Vote on Amendment No 28 by Kathleen Depoorter on Article 2.(1929/11) Vote on Amendment No 28 by Kathleen Depoorter to Article 2.(1929/11) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u201	Yes [[39]] Yes No. 97 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u202	Vote on Amendment No 29 by Kathleen Depoorter to insert an article 3/1 (n).(1929/11) Vote on Amendment No 29 by Kathleen Depoorter to insert an Article 3/1 (n).(1929/11) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u203	Yes [[39]] Yes No. 98 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 137 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 32 by Catherine Fonck to insert an article 3/1 (n).(1929/11) Vote on Amendment No 32 by Catherine Fonck to insert an Article 3/1 (n).(1929/11) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u204	Yes 54 Yes No. 83 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 137 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 34 by Catherine Fonck on article 7.(1929/11) Vote on Amendment No 34 by Catherine Fonck to Article 7.(1929/11) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u205	Yes 54 Yes No. 83 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 7 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 7 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 41 by Kathleen Depoorter on article 10.(1929/11) Vote on Amendment No 41 by Kathleen Depoorter to Article 10.(1929/11) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u206	Yes 44 Yes No. [[84]] No Abstentions 10 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 10 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 10 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 21 by Kathleen Depoorter on article 12.(1929/11) Vote on Amendment No 21 by Kathleen Depoorter to Article 12.(1929/11) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u207	Yes 44 Yes No. [[84]] No Abstentions 10 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 12 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 12 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 40 by Sofie Merckx to insert an article 15/1 (n).(1929/11) Vote on Amendment No 40 by Sofie Merckx to insert an Article 15/1 (n).(1929/11) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u208	Yes [[10]] Yes No. 105 No Abstentions 22 Abstensions Total 137 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 22 by Kathleen Depoorter on article 16.(1929/11) Vote on Amendment No 22 by Kathleen Depoorter to Article 16.(1929/11) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u209	Yes [[43]] Yes No. 94 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 138 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 33 by Sophie Merckx on article 16.(1929/11) Vote on Amendment No 33 by Sophie Merckx to Article 16.(1929/11) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u210	Yes 53 Yes No. 83 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 136 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 27 by Kathleen Depoorter on article 16.(1929/11) Vote on Amendment No 27 by Kathleen Depoorter to Article 16.(1929/11) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u211	Yes [[40]] Yes No. 93 No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 16 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 16 was adopted. Vote on Rule 29.(1929/5) Vote on Article 29.(1929/5) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u212	Yes 134 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 137 Total As a result, Article 29 was adopted. Accordingly, article 29 was adopted. Vote on Rule 30.(1929/5) Vote on Article 30.(1929/5) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u213	Yes 133 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 137 Total As a result, Article 30 was adopted. Accordingly, article 30 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 42 by Frieda Gijbels on Article 31.(1929/11) Vote on amendment No 42 by Frieda Gijbels to Article 31.(1929/11) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u214	Yes [[38]] Yes No. 93 No Abstentions 6 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 31 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 31 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u215	Vote on Rule 31.(1929/5) Vote on Article 31.(1929/5) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u216	Yes [[109]] Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 27 Abstensions Total 136 Total As a result, Article 31 was adopted. Accordingly, article 31 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u217	Vote on Rule 32.(1929/5) Vote on Article 32.(1929/5) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u218	Yes 119 Yes No. [[17]] No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 137 Total As a result, Article 32 has been adopted. Accordingly, article 32 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u219	Vote on Amendment No 43 by Frieda Gijbels on Article 33.(1929/11) Vote on amendment 43 by Frieda Gijbels to Article 33.(1929/11) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u220	Yes [[41]] Yes No. 91 No Abstentions 7 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 33 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 33 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u221	Vote on Rule 33.(1929/5) Vote on Article 33.(1929/5) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u222	Yes 111 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 28 Abstensions Total 139 Total As a result, Article 33 was adopted. Accordingly, article 33 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 39 by Catherine Fonck on article 39.(1929/11) Vote on Amendment No 39 by Catherine Fonck to Rule 39.(1929/11) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u223	Yes [[37]] Yes No. 104 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 141 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 39 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 39 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 23 by Kathleen Depoorter on article 45.(1929/11) Vote on Amendment No 23 by Kathleen Depoorter to Rule 45.(1929/11) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u224	Yes 58 Yes No. 82 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 140 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 35 by Catherine Fonck on article 45.(1929/11) Vote on Amendment No 35 by Catherine Fonck to Rule 45.(1929/11) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u225	Yes 58 Yes No. 82 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 140 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 45 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 45 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 36 by Catherine Fonck on article 51.(1929/11) Vote on Amendment No 36 by Catherine Fonck to Rule 51.(1929/11) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u226	Yes 58 Yes No. 82 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 140 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 51 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 51 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 30 by Catherine Fonck to omit Article 57.(1929/11) Vote on Amendment No 30 by Catherine Fonck to delete Rule 57.(1929/11) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u227	Yes 58 Yes No. 82 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 140 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 57 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 57 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 37 by Catherine Fonck on article 59.(1929/11) Vote on Amendment No 37 by Catherine Fonck to Rule 59.(1929/11) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u228	Yes 58 Yes No. 82 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 140 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 59 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 59 was adopted. Vote on Rule 60.(1929/5) Vote on Rule 60.(1929/5) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u229	Yes 137 Yes No. 1 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, Article 60 has been adopted. Accordingly, article 60 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 24 by Frieda Gijbels on Article 63.(1929/11) Vote on amendment No 24 to Rule 63 by Frieda Gijbels.(1929/11) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u230	Yes 49 Yes No. 89 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 63 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 63 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u231	Vote on Amendment No 31 by Catherine Fonck on article 65.(1929/11) Vote on Amendment No 31 by Catherine Fonck to Rule 65.(1929/11) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u232	Yes 59 Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 65 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 65 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u233	Vote on Amendment No 38 by Catherine Fonck on Article 66.(1929/11) Vote on Amendment No 38 by Catherine Fonck to Rule 66.(1929/11) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u234	Yes 59 Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 140 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 66 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 66 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u235	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u236	Yes 82 Yes No. [[18]] No Abstentions 41 Abstensions Total 141 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u237	Vote on Amendment No 1 by Tomas Roggeman cs to omit Article 10.(1935/4) Vote on Amendment No 1 by Tomas Roggeman cs to delete Article 10.(1935/4) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u238	Yes [[47]] Yes No. 83 No Abstentions 11 Abstensions Total 141 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 10 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 10 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 2 by Tomas Roggeman cs to omit Article 16.(1935/4) Vote on Amendment No 2 by Tomas Roggeman cs to delete Article 16.(1935/4) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u239	Yes [[55]] Yes No. [[84]] No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 141 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 16 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 16 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 3 by Tomas Roggeman cs to omit Article 18.(1935/4) Vote on Amendment No 3 by Tomas Roggeman cs to delete Article 18.(1935/4) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u240	Yes [[47]] Yes No. 83 No Abstentions 12 Abstensions Total 142 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 18 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 18 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 4 by Tomas Roggeman cs to omit Article 19.(1935/4) Vote on Amendment No 4 by Tomas Roggeman cs to delete Article 19.(1935/4) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u241	Yes [[47]] Yes No. 83 No Abstentions 12 Abstensions Total 142 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 19 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 19 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 5 by Tomas Roggeman cs to omit Article 24.(1935/4) Vote on Amendment No 5 by Tomas Roggeman cs to delete Article 24.(1935/4) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u242	Yes [[47]] Yes No. 83 No Abstentions 12 Abstensions Total 142 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 24 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 24 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 6 by Tomas Roggeman cs to omit Article 26.(1935/4) Vote on Amendment No 6 by Tomas Roggeman cs to delete Article 26.(1935/4) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u243	Yes [[47]] Yes No. 83 No Abstentions 12 Abstensions Total 142 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 26 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 26 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 7 by Tomas Roggeman cs to omit Article 52.(1935/4) Vote on Amendment No 7 by Tomas Roggeman cs to delete Rule 52.(1935/4) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u244	Yes [[47]] Yes No. 83 No Abstentions 12 Abstensions Total 142 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 52 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 52 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 8 by Tomas Roggeman cs to omit Article 62.(1935/4) Vote on Amendment No 8 by Tomas Roggeman cs to delete Rule 62.(1935/4) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u245	Yes [[47]] Yes No. 83 No Abstentions 12 Abstensions Total 142 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 62 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 62 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 9 by Tomas Roggeman cs to omit Article 79.(1935/4) Vote on Amendment No 9 by Tomas Roggeman cs to delete Rule 79.(1935/4) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u246	Yes [[47]] Yes No. 83 No Abstentions 12 Abstensions Total 142 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 79 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 79 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 10 by Tomas Roggeman cs for the deletion of Articles 81, 82 and 84.(1935/4) Vote on Amendment No 10 by Tomas Roggeman cs to delete Articles 81, 82 and 84.(1935/4) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u247	Yes 57 Yes No. 83 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 142 Total The amendment was therefore rejected and Articles 81, 82 and 84 were adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Articles 81, 82 and 84 were adopted. Vote on Amendment No 11 by Tomas Roggeman cs to insert an Article 81/1 (n).(1935/4) Vote on Amendment No 11 by Tomas Roggeman cs to insert an Article 81/1 (n).(1935/4) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u248	Yes 57 Yes No. 83 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 142 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 12 by Tomas Roggeman cs to insert an Article 81/2 (n).(1935/4) Vote on Amendment No 12 by Tomas Roggeman cs to insert an Article 81/2 (n).(1935/4) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u249	Yes 57 Yes No. 83 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 142 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 13 by Tomas Roggeman cs to omit Article 85.(1935/4) Vote on Amendment No 13 by Tomas Roggeman cs to delete Rule 85.(1935/4) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u250	Yes [[47]] Yes No. 83 No Abstentions 11 Abstensions Total 141 Total The amendment was therefore rejected and Article 85 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 85 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 14 by Tomas Roggeman cs to omit Article 86.(1935/4) Vote on Amendment No 14 by Tomas Roggeman cs to delete Rule 86.(1935/4) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u251	Yes [[47]] Yes No. 83 No Abstentions 11 Abstensions Total 141 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 86 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 86 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 15 by Tomas Roggeman cs to omit Article 88.(1935/4) Vote on Amendment No 15 by Tomas Roggeman cs to delete Rule 88.(1935/4) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u252	Yes 56 Yes No. 83 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 141 Total The amendment was therefore rejected and Article 88 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 88 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 16 by Tomas Roggeman cs to omit Article 95.(1935/4) Vote on Amendment No 16 by Tomas Roggeman cs to delete Rule 95.(1935/4) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u253	Yes [[45]] Yes No. 83 No Abstentions 12 Abstensions Total 140 Total The amendment was therefore rejected and Article 95 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 95 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u254	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u255	Yes [[85]] Yes No. 1 No Abstentions 52 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-10-definitief-55-plenair-ip109x.u256	We must approve the agenda for next week's sitting. We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for next week's sitting. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 17 June 2021 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, June 17, 2021 at 2:15 p.m.
