ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic631x.u1	Mrs Houtmeyers is absent to ask her question No 55022892C.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic631x.u2	Madam President, Mrs Houtmeyers has tabled the same question twice and I answered this question yesterday in the Committee on the Economy, Consumer Protection and the Digital Agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic631x.u3	Question No 55022927C is not relevant, since Mr Colebunders is excused, but has not specified anything.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic631x.u4	Mr Minister, during the discussion of your policy paper, the right of bridging was already discussed. Unfortunately, the fourth corona wave chops firmly into it, with more than 17,000 infections a day and more than 600 people in intensive care. I therefore think it is logical that the Consultative Committee has decided to take additional measures, because they can save lives. These measures are taking certain sectors hard once again. The catering industry and the event sector in particular are calling the alarm bells. At some of the outdoor events I attended last weekend, during which I started to warm up inside, I only heard crying out loud. There are fewer customers coming by anyway because of the fear of contamination. In addition, major events cannot take place, but also the small events that are organized in a room behind a café, for example. Such events, which normally take care of customers inside, are all cancelled. Then I do not talk about the event sector or the discotheques, people who work at night and who are cancelled up to 40% of their events. Since October there has been an adjustment of the bridging right, but from signals I note that the water is not on but above the lips. As a result of the discussion of your policy paper, I have already asked you about the right of bridging, as new restrictive measures are in force. Minister, the right of bridging is now valid until the end of December. Will you review that so that you can support the hardest affected sectors? If the situation does not improve after January, what will happen if the system expires? Will the new reformed system be ready by then? How will that respond to the situation? Are you also thinking of other measures, possibly to submit them to the government? I'm thinking about a bank deal and the commercial lease. I have noticed that café owners have to pay their contractual rent, which is starting to weigh very heavily.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic631x.u5	Mrs Vanrobaeys, the government makes a decision when there is consensus. The government has made a decision and it is supported by the entire government. It goes without saying, following the decisions of the Consultation Committee on Friday 26 November, that the government is considering and working on new support measures for our self-employed, SMEs and enterprises. These measures are the same as those applied in the past. The government will inform Parliament about this once agreement has been reached on the package of crisis measures. Mrs Vanrobaeys, large companies create jobs, economic growth and prosperity. I admire your attention to the small self-employed and SMEs that I share. A country needs small self-employed and SMEs, which are the engine for the economy. In addition, however, a country also needs larger structures. Every man's place, every man's interest, every man's merit. I can assure you that the government will seek and find the right balance.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic631x.u6	Mr Minister, it is indeed all happening quite quickly. This also applies to the necessary reinforcements imposed by the Consultative Committee. I am pleased that the government is still looking at how it can provide additional support for the self-employed and SMEs hard hit by the fourth wave. In the past, the aid measures have already proved that it will enable those concerned to survive, that the economic revival will immediately attract, as in the early autumn, when we were in a better situation, and that an economic battlefield will be avoided. I look forward to the measures that are being discussed in the government and will be presented.
