ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip156x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip156x.u2	Madam President, Prime Minister, first of all, thank you for coming to explain. The question is not so much, and not only, to come and explain to you in front of us, the opposition, but to come and explain – and the whole of this majority – to you in front of the world of culture, but also in front of all citizens. I listened to you this afternoon, Prime Minister. It is not enough to repeat ten times "clearly, clearly" to allow decisions to be accepted and digested that are nonsense in terms of health. Yesterday, in Codeco, you made a whole series of decisions. And yes, as a scientist, as a doctor, I think that indeed, unfortunately, the Omicron, because it is much more contagious than the Delta, will lead to additional contamination. Is it much more dangerous than the Delta? There is a great deal of uncertainty on this issue. The situation of hospitals remains very difficult. But we have very recent data from South Africa, the United Kingdom and Scotland. These publications, of course based on partial data, show that the risk of hospitalization seems – I am cautious – lower than the Delta. Although caution must be exercised, these elements are rather encouraging. Since the beginning of the crisis, I have always been extremely cautious. I never surfed, as we could easily have done since the opposition, saying, "No, we can open everything, we mustn't close." I have sometimes made a speech much more responsible than the parties of your majority. Still here, in pre-Codeco, we've been promised, things! The culture was going to reopen much stronger. The hours of the Horeca were to be expanded. There would be free self-tests. Did all this come from the opposition? No. It came from the parties that make up the different governments and your majority. I have always insisted, Prime Minister, that the measures should be strong and fully deployed, based on the weapons we have: masks, ventilation, boosters, testing, tracing. Indeed, some of these measures are still not fully deployed. That's the reality. We started the vaccination booster at least a month later than we could and what we should have. I understand some things in yesterday's decisions. It's true that it's not nice for people who like to go to a football stadium. But deciding that the big football matches will no longer take place in the presence of spectators is something I understand and think reasonable. Indeed, there is the pre-game football and the post-game football. On the other hand, if there is one measure that does not make sense in terms of health, it is the decision on culture, Prime Minister. This afternoon, when I asked you to validate, from a scientific point of view, the reason why you decided to close the cinemas, the theatres and the theatres, you replied: "Because there is going to be an increase in contamination." That's not an answer! Why the cultural sector? That is the question. What justifies the decision, which I think is arbitrary, on culture? Culture has protocols in place. You know that. I'm not reminding you. Culture is not involved within the 31 pages of the GEMS report. No, GEMS was not advocating closing the world of culture now. I'll read you what Mr. Van Laethem, an infectious scientist, spokeswoman you know well: "Politics were invited to prepare, to press the brake pedal in case it was necessary. Not to crush it and send the passengers into the windscreen." These are the words of Professor Van Laethem, Prime Minister. This decision is not justified in health terms. You still haven't told me how much you think you are avoiding hazardous contamination in areas where there are such important and respected health protocols. I'm asking you again here. I'll even go one step further. I think it is worse in terms of health to close the culture sector than to leave it open. Children may regroup, ten or even fifteen, in front of a television or change places and friends every day, rather than go to the cinema where sanitary protocols exist. Yes, I think the consequences can be more harmful than positive. Yes, I also think that for psychological health, that's not a good idea. Cinema, for example, or these moments of escape to the theatre are among the weapons that make it possible to go through difficult moments; these are moments of breathing in a complicated context for the entire population. The damage to the culture will be major. They will hurt, very hurt a sector that is already in great difficulty and that has overinvested to minimize and control the risks associated with covid-19 as much as possible. Why did you choose culture? You did not answer this question in questions of current interest. Prime Minister, that is why, with the cultural world, I am waiting for you tonight. On the other hand, this afternoon, there has been a lifting of shields – and the word is weak – of many of your majority partners. These same partners, Ecolo, PS, MR, all the others who are also present in other governments, who also serve as the minister-chair of other governments, which are indeed around the Codeco table, have asked you exactly the same thing as me, Prime Minister. Just the same! You didn't answer them. They've moved on. The loss of confidence, as Marius Gilbert said this morning on the antennae of La Première, is total. There is no better way to decredify public speech than not to explain the reasons for the decisions taken. There is also no better way to decredify public speech when some validate decisions inside to denounce them illico, barely the press conference of the Codeco ended, as we saw yesterday, in front of the cameras, as we read on Twitter or as we heard again on the air this morning. There is no better way to outlaw all your actions, Prime Minister, than to manipulate the opinion of the experts in order to make them take the lead in a decision which is purely political, which is in no way scientifically validated and which, obviously, is arbitrary and the result of great political bargaining. This is a major moment to try to restore confidence. First with the scientific experts who, for months, have been investing without counting for the government. You need to restore confidence with the scientific experts who are now feeling blurred by the manipulation of their report. You must restore trust with all citizens. If we want to face the wave of Omicron in the best possible conditions, it will also be thanks to the measures that citizens will respect and to the efforts that they continue to make. Prime Minister, I would ask you, like some members of your majority have said, to urgently convene a new Codeco and to reverse this arbitrary decision to shut down cinemas, theatres and theatres.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip156x.u3	Madam President, Prime Minister, as I explained earlier, no one here, or even within the population, denies the need to act against this Omicron variant, of which we finally know little. We know, on the other hand, that it is extremely contagious and is spreading at V-V speed in all countries, and there is no reason why our country should be free of it. This need is even more important, even though we must avoid a fifth wave and we are still not done with the fourth wave. That is why the GEMS report was extremely valuable, because it was there to support you in your codeco decisions which, it must be acknowledged, are always difficult to make. This report highlights step-by-step and cumulative measures. You threw this report into their face by deciding to close the cinemas, the theatres and the theatres, claiming that it was based on an opinion of the experts. That's what you said to a Dutch-speaking journalist after the press conference. And so, in response to our topical questions earlier, you mentioned a report from the national reference laboratory, which would indicate a health situation that would be more serious the day after Christmas. In doing so, you explain to us that this measure would be a precautionary measure in response to the GEMS report, which did not propose this closure for today but for later if the health situation might worsen. Except that the report advocated this measure only in combination with others, because there is no valid reason to consider that the closure of this sector alone would today respond to the increase in cases which is now feared by this national laboratory in its opinion. This closure, therefore, is not a measure of anticipation, as you have tried to present earlier, but rather of harassment against a specific sector, and also the safest sector recognised from a health point of view, in a unanimous way by all the data and studies carried out on this subject. I am thinking of the contamination figures of Sciensano, the tracing data, the studies also carried out by the Institut Pasteur, by the Hermann-Rietschel Institute in Berlin or the universities of Leuven and Hasselt. The high safety of these places has also been attested by the various test events that have had the opportunity to be carried out in the theatres and from which no contamination has emerged. For the experts, this is due to the fact that these are the only public places where participants remain generally silent and masked. So you have completely broken the trust of the experts. For Marc Van Ranst, closing the culture was a mistake. This is not going to help fight Omicron. That's what he said. According to Marius Gilbert, "the GEMS reports are detrigued by political bargaining that leads to absurdities of which everyone is aware". He even added that "the Concertation Committee is busy having harmful consequences on trust and, ultimately, on social cohesion". You have, of course, also broken the confidence of the cultural sector, but also of all the other sectors that have been following strict health protocols for months. That's how you punish the right students. You even sacrifice them! So these are my questions, Prime Minister. What scientific studies do you use today to decide on the closure of a sector unanimously recognized as safe? What does the RMG's opinion say about this? Why do you finally trust the citizens for their private gatherings by means of self-tests, which is quite positive, but not the professionals who, for months, respect the ventilation devices, surface decontamination, social distance, wearing the mask, control of the CST? When will you stop sacrificing the cultural sector that cannot be held responsible for your government's wanderings? Do you agree that it is essential today to review without delay the measures taken by this Codeco on Wednesday? Why have you gone further than the measures requested by GEMS, when, so far, you needed at least three Codecos to follow his advice and take the strong measures imposed by the health situation? When will we finally have the barometer, the covid safe label and the ventilation plan demanded by experts and sectors for months? Finally, is it not time to have a parliamentary debate on health measures so that any arbitrations on health measures can no longer take place at the end of the Codeco, but at the end of a public and transparent debate in Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip156x.u4	Madam President, Prime Minister, yesterday in the Codeco, you decided to close the cultural sector. It's not just any sector! The cultural sector represents a society, its values. Culture is a factor of emancipation, expression, solidarity, but also an indicator of the well-being of a society. I will not recall that GEMS refers to the welfare aspect as an important factor to be taken into account in the measures chosen. Our fellow citizens have been facing difficulties for the past two years. Our youth is in distress. All need this sector to escape and break out of the tensions caused by the health crisis. And you, you decide to close this area! This sector has made a great deal of effort. Each time he was asked to put in place health measures to deal with the pandemic, he responded present. It is a sector that has invested a great deal of money to meet these criteria. And yet you've decided to shut it down! Prime Minister, how did you make this decision? I can understand that we are closing sectors, particularly the cultural sector, if the situation is serious, that all possibilities have been explored and that there is no choice. But today, the same cannot be said. You say you're based on the GEMS reports. The same committee tells you that prevention is the most important step a government can take in a pandemic. What have you done about prevention? Have you designed a ventilation plan? No! Did you generalize the tests? Neither! Immunisation centres, testing centres and their agents who follow the infected persons have even been restricted. And you continue with your yo-yo policy: close, open, close, open! You are not putting in place the necessary decisions and measures to deal with the pandemic. You're not strengthening the first line that needs it so much. You do not listen to the field when the health care staff shouts and sounds alarms about working conditions, about wages that are not attractive to the sector that is now experiencing a shortage. What are you doing in this regard? Nothing! Not all of the preventive measures recommended by GEMS are in place. You take the paper and choose, and it is always the most repressive, the most unjust, the most irresponsible measures taken. You call for responsibility; you call for solidarity, but you are the first, with your government, to break this solidarity, to mount sectors against each other! Prime Minister, when are you going to come back to this policy which has shown its limits and its failure for two years but which you are continuing as if nothing had happened? You continue with the same logic and you refuse to change it. Whether it's you or the Minister of Health, you're being told to push people to take the third dose. All right, but even the WHO says that it is more important to lift the patents on vaccines so that the rest of the world can be vaccinated and variants can be avoided. Today, if you take this step, it is because of the Omicron variant that comes from a country where the vaccine is not developed because patents prevent these countries from developing them. But you continue in this logic which does not work and which has a considerable and disastrous impact on society as a whole. Prime Minister, you want to get people's support, but you've done everything you can to make people not believe you. You continue to choose a policy that is challenged by the general population and, today, even by scientists. Marius Gilbert said this morning that trust was broken. You have lost the confidence of scientists with your measurements. We have to come back to question ourselves at some point.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip156x.u5	Madam President, since motions have been tabled, I have also tabled a simple motion and I ask for urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip156x.u6	I note that there are group leaders in the majority who have blind faith. Madam President, it is always a pleasure to be invited to this Chamber. But if we start again the debate that took place during the oral questions earlier, it is better only to make inquiries. But I'm adapting to your method. In your speeches you say that I, the Prime Minister, have decided. No! I am the Chairman of the Consultation Committee, in which all governments are gathered. It is composed of fourteen members who make decisions in college. There's never been a vote. A decision is not made if someone objects. Decisions are collective, even if they are not easy to make. If you're speaking to me, you're speaking to the Consultation Committee. The decisions are translated into a royal decree that is made at the federal level following the pandemic law. This royal decree binds all the governments that are present. You say that these decisions do not make sense from a health point of view, that they are not based on scientific advice and that the reasons are not clear. In this regard, I have little to add in addition to the argument I used earlier. So I'll say it again. We received a notice from GEMS dated December 21. This opinion is based on the opinion of a group of experts. Since I have twenty minutes, I will give you a list of the members of this committee of experts: Isabelle Aujoulat, Philippe Beutels, Caroline Bouluffe, Steven Callens, Mathias Dewatripont, Lode Godderis, Niel Hens, Tinne Lernout, Romain Mahieu, Christelle Meuris, Geert Molenberghs, Karine Moykens, Céline Nieuwenhuys, Michel Thieren, Pierre Van Damme, Dimitri Van der Linden, Steven Van Gucht, Yves Van Laethem – interesting! – Marc Van Ranst, Maarten Vansteenkiste, Erika Vlieghe, and Dirk Wildemeersch. The report we received was written by them. I imagine that, just as a decision of the Codeco binds all its members, an opinion of the GEMS binds its authors. I assume that in the event of disagreement, one of them may request that his name be not mentioned or that his disagreement be indicated. On the third page is a table entitled Proposed Measures, including the entries Actions to be taken now and Additional measures to take when the epidemiological evolution is unfavorable. You're saying I made a decision against culture. No, not at all: the decision we made is based on the opinion of GEMS and concerns activities within it. In this case, we are talking about Indoor located games, which may include cultural events, but not only. They can also be meetings, activities, and lots of things. We have not decided to point a finger at the world of culture. Not at all. In fact, we have closed other indoor activities. In the first column, the opinion mentions "Measures to be taken up to 200 people", but in the second, it says "Cancel all kind of games". So if the numbers are moving in the wrong direction, all activities must be stopped. You're going to say, "Yes, but for now, that's not the case." That's right. However, the national laboratory, which I mentioned earlier, predicts that the level of contamination will increase for Christmas. Maybe he's wrong. Honestly, I hope he's wrong. The measures we have taken come into force on 26 December. Precaution should be exercised when alarm bells are activated throughout Europe. I imagine you know the measures taken in the Netherlands. There is no question here of pointing at one sector or the other. In the Netherlands, everything is closed at 5 p.m. A country like Denmark, for example, which has a booster rate comparable to ours - it is a little higher - and which is much more confronted with the Omicron variant has taken similar measures: activities inside unfortunately closed. In a moment like this, when we know that the Omicron variant will become dominant, where we know that it is much more contagious, that its rate of spread will increase, at a time when uncertainties exist, it is true, the impact in hospitals is not clear. Let us not forget, however, that the impact in our hospitals at the moment is 700 occupied beds. We could say we're going to take a risk. It could be a strategy. We would've taken a risk and we'd have seen. Maybe we would have been right, but if we were wrong, what would have happened? Between Christmas and New Year, the situation in hospitals would have deteriorated again. This would have meant that, by the beginning of next year, we would have found ourselves again in a situation where you would have seen on the news of the doctors, nurses saying that they are completely ended after two years, just at the time when we would have wanted to open the schools. I hope that we have at least this in common, the hope of opening schools. Do we want to take that risk now? That's the question. Do we want to use the methods used a month ago? Many of you have been very critical: "Organising three consultation committees successively shows that you do not control the situation." I find this criticism relevant. Honestly, yes, we should have taken much stronger measures at first. Honestly, I hope to learn from my mistakes. I think we should have made decisions much sooner and gone further. That's what we're doing here. What would have been the alternative? The alternative would have been to decide yesterday and say that we would see each other the following weeks. Do you think this would have helped with membership? Would it have made things simpler? Every time this rise in power that is systematically made around a Codeco, does it take two days after Christmas? Would this be the right time? Honestly, I think that's a bad idea. I am fully aware that these measures are not obvious. I said that earlier in my answer. But to say that we manipulate the experts, that we do a selective reading of the reports, I find it insulting, honestly! It is quite insulting for all those who are in this committee of consultation. Virtually all but some of the parties present here are represented. It is the decision-making power of the country that lies there. The people who are here are not there to play political games, nor to make political deals. They are trying to take measures that are proportionate. We all know that when we take this kind of action, it is done on paper, but it has an impact on people's lives. That's right! Measurement is not easy. Could we have some patience and see if the estimates we have based on are correct? These estimates say that, normally, a little after Christmas, contamination will increase. If it turns out that this is not the case, we will have been too careful, and Minister Vandenbroucke has been very clear: at the beginning of next year an assessment will be made and if it turns out that the contamination has not increased, it is clear that we will not maintain the measures. But when a collection of governments rely on the opinions they have received and take precautionary measures at a time when the Omicron variant generates a great deal of uncertainty, as I said earlier, I think it is a good policy rather than being a little too careful instead of taking a risk. I mean it honestly: this is really not the time to take a risk. We relied on reports written by people who then spoke. It's up to them. But the names of the experts appear on the report I have here, and I imagine that when they state their names on a report, it is because they support the document. A period like this is difficult; it has disappointments and many doubts. Rather, we need to encourage ourselves instead of pointing at each other. Why this group here and why not this other group? I really think that's the last thing to do. Honestly, for two years, this pandemic has shown us that when we hold a political debate, in the sense that we try to destabilize, to point our finger at each other, nobody usually wins because the pandemic is much faster than we think. We are faced with something natural. This means that things that we didn't see coming and that we didn't think of happen from time to time. That is why we must show humility, including in the decisions we make. Perhaps it will appear in a few weeks that we have been too careful. I'd be the first to admit it, but I'd rather recognize it than admit to being reckless. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip156x.u7	Prime Minister, as before, I would like to thank you for your answers, as well as for your urgent response to this inquiry. Earlier, some of my colleagues, particularly from parties of the majority, who had spoken loud and clear on topical issues, then rejected the urgency of this inquiry. I therefore thank you for taking a different position than theirs. We do not start the debate again, but we expect answers to questions that you have not provided with any justification or clarification about the Codeco's decisions on the closure of the cultural sector. You are right to recall that this is a Codeco decision, not just your personal choice. When I said "you," it was obviously in your capacity as president of this body. Having said that, I would like to turn to the essentials, which of course is the question of the meaning of this decision to close the cultural sector. Yes or no, does that make sense in terms of health? You didn't answer that. I was just explaining how much more likely it is to be in a cinema with respect to the protocols, as they have been set up in a very professional way by the sector, in terms of controlling contamination, to agglutinate with ten or fifteen children in front of a television set. I also said that, among the weapons available, it is particularly important to have opportunities for escape times, given the psychological well-being of the affected population. You don't answer that and you try to present us with the GEMS report by saying, "But yes, but if, despite everything the scientists have said since yesterday, look, it was in the report." I've seen the two famous columns you're talking about. On that, we agree. There are two. You tell us that, in the background, we are no longer in the first column – which does not mention the closure of the cultural sector at all – but that we are already in the second column. That's what you wanted to convey as a message. However, if we are in the second column, we must close the cultural sector. But, Prime Minister, in the second column, in addition to the closure of the cultural sector, there are many other things. For my part, I think we are probably part of the first column. Either, let's skip this column thing! This GEMS report is still a central point. You have chosen to close the crop sector without any health arguments, thinking that through this you would be able to control contamination better. I think, Prime Minister, the effect of closing the crop on contamination is marginal. It is marginal in view of the protocols. It is marginal given the number of people involved. Basically, if you think that the risk is very high and that we need to take steps now to better control the Omicron tomorrow, it is not by closing the culture sector that it will change something. It would then have been necessary to apply the entire opinion of GEMS, which is this famous second column. But, as I say again, GEMS has never said that stricter measures should now be applied. On the contrary, it gave a timetable of measures according to the evolution of the situation. You do not provide any sound scientific arguments or justification for choosing the closure of this particular sector. You do not provide any information to reassure or to reconcile the government with citizens and experts. Your majority said loud and clear that this decision had to be reconsidered. This is the subject of the motion that I have tabled at the moment in order to convene a new Codeco and to review the decision on the closure of cinemas, theatres and shows.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip156x.u8	Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. You know the slogan "No culture, no future", but it is not, because it reflects reality. Indeed, culture is the life of thousands of professionals who are as anxious to brighten our sad daily life with their talent and creativity as they are to guarantee our safety. You present this measure to us as proactive, basing yourself on the report of this national reference laboratory which explained to you that, for Christmas, the level of contamination would increase. It would be wise to know the reasons. Is it not because, in the absence of supervision measures, for example, contamination will spread to the homes, while the shows are framed? In any case, Prime Minister, it is not by arbitrarily and unjustly stigmatizing an area that is anticipated. You then claim that the GEMS report was not about culture in particular, but about indoor located activities. That's true, but I'll ask you in this case to take on your own words. Indeed, during the press conference, you presented the closure of cinemas, theatres and shows. Anticipating is to provide a barometer capable of giving the sectors a course and prospects – closure or reopening. Anticipating is also about developing a "covid safe" label at places that are healthy, instead of targeting specific sectors to close them one after the other as we have been doing for the past two years, when we are now supposed to use tools that we did not have at the time. Anticipating is to present a ventilation plan before the winter and not to let say, in your Minister of Health's general policy note, that it will be presented in the course of the year 2022. Anticipating is communicating about how to use self-tests rather than just saying at a press conference: "Yes, ladies and gentlemen, you can use self-tests during parties, it's very good." But without explaining how their reliability is ensured and the safety of the people who use it. You think our speech is insulting! What is truly insulting, Prime Minister, is to make the price of your past lack of anticipation paid to this sector, to these professionals, to the lack of anticipation that you have at the moment recognized, which of course is to your credit. Many ministers before you did not have that courage and humility. All this demonstrates the urgency of a parliamentary debate on health measures. That was our speech during the work on the Pandemia Act. You didn't hear that call. I hope that today, in view of the situation, you intend to change your shoulder rifle. This will have the merit of enabling citizens to take ownership of the measures by understanding their merits, but also of putting an end to the double discourse of certain parties who cry out in their hearts "poor culture" when they have validated its closure. There is nothing worse than this hypocrisy to reduce the population's adherence to measures in particular, but also confidence in the political authorities in general.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip156x.u9	Prime Minister, I listened carefully. And now, when I tell you, I'm talking to the codeco as a whole. Because you made an important point: the decisions were taken by consensus. This implies that all participants agreed. I would like to point out that, in fact, there are parties who are insurgent about these decisions, while they have validated them during the codeco. We have to stop taking people for ass, we have to stop this hypocrisy. I have just read a press release from the Ecolo-Groen Group, which calls for a review of this decision. But what is it? What the hell is this? How is it that yesterday we validate a decision and that today, because everyone is insurgent, the cultural sector, scientists, the population in general, we come back and we ask for the decision to be lifted. This is really hypocrisy and taking people as jerks! This is unacceptable! But people understand! They see the game going on behind the scenes. Prime Minister, you have called certain words insulting, especially when they say that you choose the decisions that are right for you. I keep it, you make a choice! In particular, the closure of the cultural sector. In its recommendations, GEMS had given two scenarios: one with light measures and the other with stricter measures depending on the increase in the number of cases, such as prohibiting domestic events. There was a condition. They did not recommend closing the culture sector in the current situation. But you made that choice! When I say you, I'm talking about codeco. But, you have no choice to bet on prevention! Because GEMS also delivers prevention leads! Why didn't you choose those? Why do you choose closures, repression and not prevention? These are choices and I keep my sentence. And that is not insulting, Prime Minister. That's the facts! That's what happened! You said it was a mistake to hold two Codeco straight away and you had to make decisions not to have to meet all the time. Prime Minister, you're going to redo a Codeco! You will be obliged to repeat one since your decision has no scientific or sanitary basis. The difference with previous decisions is that today, even scientists, even experts, have all stood up this morning to challenge your decision. This morning on the radio, Marius Gilbert had tears in his eyes and the voice trembling so much your policy is irresponsible and next to the plate. When are you going to open your eyes? There is no point in telling us that these are difficult decisions. In fact, it doesn't work. If you really want to deal with the pandemic, you have to change your policy. How is it that the parties that tell us that we must be responsible are the same ones that voted against the lifting of the patent on the vaccine, when it was recommended by the WHO? Stop playing yo-yo and say something to the press and then make a decision to the contrary. People understand it, it doesn't work. That's why they're turning their backs on you. Prime Minister, if you want a health policy to work, we need popular support. You have completely lost this membership today, even scientists don't trust you. When are you going to come back to these Codeco decisions yesterday? Today, motions are being moved to that effect. Culture is not a secondary sector, as you see it, it is an essential sector. It is not for nothing that it is guaranteed in the Constitution as a fundamental right. It's an essential and not a secondary thing. Making this kind of decision is irresponsible in terms of the well-being of our society. A motion has been tabled. I invite all Members and parties who have stood up today to call for scandal to vote on this motion. Otherwise, it will be confirmation of hypocrisy: say things but do the opposite. That would be unacceptable, and people will no longer bear it!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip156x.u10	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A first motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms Catherine Fonck and Ms Sophie Rohonyi and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiries of Catherine Fonck and Sophie Rohonyi and Nabil Boukili and the Prime Minister's response, - considering the decisions taken by the CODECO of 22 December to close the cinemas and the theatres from 26 December; - Whereas these decisions are not based on the GEMS report; - considering the severe criticism made at the sitting of topical questions by majority parties of these decisions to which the ministers of these parties have subscribed; asks the Prime Minister - convene a new CODECO within 24 hours; - to propose at the meeting to review the decisions taken at the CODECO on 22 December with regard in particular to the closure of cinemas and theatres." A first motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Catherine Fonck and Mrs Sophie Rohonyi and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interviews of Mrs Catherine Fonck and Mrs Sophie Rohonyi and Mr Nabil Boukili and the Prime Minister's reply, - having regard to the decision of the Consultative Committee to close the cinemas and theatre and concert halls on 26 December; - whereas there is no basis for this decision in the GEMS report; - having regard to the fact that during Question Time, the majority of the parties were strongly critical of the decisions taken by the ministers of those parties; asks the Prime Minister - convene the Consultative Committee within 24 hours, - propose to review the decisions taken by the Consultative Committee on 22 December, in particular with regard to the closure of cinemas and theatre and concert halls.' A second motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Nabil Boukili and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiries of Catherine Fonck and Sophie Rohonyi and Nabil Boukili and the Prime Minister's response, - having examined the decisions taken by the Conciliation Committee on 22 December 2021; - after hearing in plenary session of 23 December 2021 the explanations of Prime Minister De Croo and Minister Vandenbroucke concerning the decisions of the Conciliation Committee; - after consulting the report transmitted by GEMS for opinion to the Conciliation Committee of 22 December 2021; - considering the need for a strong prevention policy against the Covid-19 pandemic; - considering the high price of self-tests; Whereas workers always lose 70% of their wages when they have to observe about 40 years; - Whereas cultural activities are not the main cause of contamination; Whereas the Consultation Committee has refused to take preventive health measures recommended by the experts, such as making available free self-tests for the whole population; Whereas the cultural sector has already shown that it complies with the measures and guarantees the organisation of safe events for the public; asks the government - to reverse the decision to close the cultural sector; - to provide the population with free self-tests; - to ensure that workers' wages are maintained in full in the event of quarantine." A second motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Nabil Boukili and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interviews of Mrs Catherine Fonck and Mrs Sophie Rohonyi and Mr Nabil Boukili and the Prime Minister's reply, - having reviewed the decisions of the Consultation Committee of 22 December 2021, - after hearing the explanations given by Prime Minister De Croo and Minister Vandenbroucke in plenary session on 23 December 2021 concerning the decisions of the Consultation Committee; - having consulted the GEMS report for the opinion of the Consultation Committee on 22 December 2021; - considering the need for a decisive preventive policy against the covid-19 pandemic; - considering the high cost of self-testing, - whereas workers still suffer 70% loss of earnings in the case of quarantine; - considering that the cultural experience is not the main responsibility for the infections; - whereas the Consultation Committee refused to take preventive health measures, which were indeed recommended by the experts, such as offering free self-tests to the whole population; - having regard to the fact that the cultural sector has already proved to comply with the measures and to ensure safe experience for visitors; asks the government - to return to the decision to close the cultural sector; - to make self-tests available to the public free of charge; - ensure full wage retention for workers in the case of quarantine.' A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Maggie De Block and Ms Melissa Depraetere and Mr MM. Ahmed Laaouej, Benoît Piedboeuf, Wouter De Vriendt et Servais Verherstraeten. A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Maggie De Block and Mrs Melissa Depraetere and Mr Ahmed Laaouej, Mr Benoît Piedboeuf, Mr Wouter De Vriendt and Mr Servais Verherstraeten. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip156x.u11	This interview was held at the public meeting of the Justice Commission of 20 December 2021. This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Justice Committee on 20 December 2021. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 21/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Marijke Dillen; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Katja Gabriels. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 211/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Marijke Dillen; - a simple motion was tabled by Ms. Katja Gabriëls. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip156x.u12	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Dillen and myself fell off our seats two weeks ago when the newspaper headlined "Justice is finally going to measure its backwardness." To date this has not been possible due to a mess of criteria and definitions. We are surprised that measuring is not possible and refer to the report of the Supreme Court of Justice in the Bakelmans case, which gives a very detailed overview of the lead time of criminal proceedings for the period 2015-2018. In a cooperation protocol with the College of the Courts and Courts, it was agreed to improve statistics and from 1 January 2022 the Minister starts a zero measurement. From then on, the evolution of the backlog will be monitored. Nevertheless, in its policy statement of 2020, the Minister states that he wants to address and resolve the issue of the delay in justice. This approach presupposes reliable figures, which is a contradiction with what has now been announced with this zero measurement. Our group naturally assumed that initiatives had already been taken to tackle the legal backlog. If a date of treatment is only set three years after the submission of a file to a court or court, then I do not need to have precise figures to conclude that there is a legal delay. The Minister states in committee that the College and he himself signed a cooperation agreement last summer to work out this zero measurement. The measurement is currently being prepared. The different parameters: the lead time, the complexity of the pending cases, whether or not to split up by legal domain or court of law, will all be considered. A final methodology will then be submitted to the College. That concerns us, because it is a zero measurement that should start on 1 January 2022. Today is December 23rd 2021 and the holidays are coming up. The criteria have yet to be laid down, and they have been under way since the summer months. We fear that this will not solve the problem and put it back on the road again. With this motion, we are immediately calling for a well-thought-out and effective overall plan, both in the short, medium and long term, to be drawn up which tackles and finally eliminates the causes of the delay in justice, and hence the delay in justice itself. As the minister says so well: justice delayed is justice denied.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip156x.u13	Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip156x.u14	Yes 86 Yes No. 50 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 136 Total The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses. The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip156x.u15	This interview was held at the public meeting of the Justice Commission of 20 December 2021. This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Justice Committee on 20 December 2021. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 213/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Katleen Bury; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Katja Gabriels. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 213/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Katleen Bury; - a simple motion was tabled by Ms. Katja Gabriëls. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip156x.u16	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the final expert panel report on cross-country adoption, published on 2 September, revealed a great deal of malpractice. It also contains 20 recommendations to avoid such malpractices. Recommendations 16, 17, 18 and 19 should be considered at federal level. In Recommendation 16, the Expert Panel recommends extending the possibility of recovery in criminal law and ensuring effective enforcement of the law. The expert panel is not aware of any case law applying the penal provisions relating to adoption. In Recommendation 17, the Expert Panel recommends that the review of adoption and other alternatives be more concrete and balanced as a means of recovery. Recommendation 18 recommends that, for past adoptions, at least an exceptional possibility for regularisation should be provided, with identification data such as name, place of birth and date of birth being easily adapted. This revision is intended as a correction mechanism in the event of serious problems in the establishment, such as the sale, kidnapping or trafficking of minors, without which the child would not have been adopted at all. The expert panel has no knowledge of such a review and the review procedure has also been incompletely developed. Recommendation 19 is the final part of the report, in particular whether the Minister of Justice will examine with the Flemish Government how a recovery law can be drawn up at federal level, so that actors can be effectively prosecuted, time limits should be extended and the procedure for revision and regularisation fully worked out. In committee, the Minister replied that he was not the only one competent and that the question of the drafting of a recovery law and remedial measures is therefore not at the moment at issue. He also stated that it was true that Articles 391quater and 391quinquies were hardly used. They are not aimed at the authorities legally responsible for adoptions in Belgium, but only at the candidates and non-approved intermediaries. The legislator did not provide for a specific sanction for official authorities or recognised adoption services, since the legislator did not consider that those persons would be affected by the legal provision, since it is their core business to comply with them in principle. Now, in my view, this seems to be an important loophole in the law. Hence this motion for urgent consultation with the Flemish Government, to draw up a recovery law to effectively prosecute actors, to draw up a protocol for this purpose, to extend limitation periods for this purpose and to provide for the review and regularisation procedure. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip156x.u17	Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip156x.u18	Yes [[85]] Yes No. 53 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 138 Total The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses. The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip156x.u19	These questions have been developed in plenary today. These interviews were held in today's plenary session. Three motions were tabled (MOT No. 223/1): - a first motion of recommendation was tabled by Catherine Fonck and Sophie Rohonyi; - a second motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Nabil Boukili; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Maggie De Block and Mrs Melissa Depraetere and Mr MM. Ahmed Laaouej, Benoît Piedboeuf, Wouter De Vriendt et Servais Verherstraeten. Three motions were tabled (MOT No. 223/1): - a first motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Catherine Fonck and Mrs Sophie Rohonyi; - a second motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Nabil Boukili; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Maggie De Block and Mrs Melissa Depraetere and Mr Ahmed Laaouej, Mr Benoît Piedboeuf, Mr Wouter De Vriendt and Mr Servais Verherstraeten. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Vote result / Uitslag van de steming.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip156x.u20	Yes 77 Yes No. 54 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 131 Total The simple motion was adopted. As a result, motions for recommendation are overturned. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motions of recommendation lapse.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip156x.u21	Vote on Amendment No 1 by Marco Van Hees on article 44.(2349/21) Vote on Amendment No 1 by Marco Van Hees to Rule 44.(2349/21) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip156x.u22	Yes [[27]] Yes No. 112 No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 143 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 44 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 44 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 2 by Marco Van Hees to insert an article 44/1 (n).(2349/21) Vote on Amendment No 2 by Marco Van Hees to insert an Article 44/1 (n).(2349/21) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip156x.u23	Yes [[27]] Yes No. 112 No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 143 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 3 by Marco Van Hees to insert an article 44/2 (n).(2349/21) Vote on Amendment No 3 by Marco Van Hees to insert an Article 44/2 (n).(2349/21) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip156x.u24	Yes [[27]] Yes No. 112 No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 143 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 6 by Sofie Merckx on Article 63.(2349/21) Vote on Amendment No 6 to Rule 63 by Sofie Merckx.(2349/21) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip156x.u25	Yes [[11]] Yes No. 112 No Abstentions 20 Abstensions Total 143 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 63 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 63 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 14 by Catherine Fonck to insert an article 65/1 (n).(2349/21) Vote on Amendment No 14 by Catherine Fonck to insert an Article 65/1 (n).(2349/21) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip156x.u26	Yes [[16]] Yes No. 110 No Abstentions 17 Abstensions Total 143 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 4 by Sofie Merckx on Article 68.(2349/21) Vote on Amendment No 4 to Rule 68 by Sofie Merckx.(2349/21) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip156x.u27	Yes [[27]] Yes No. 112 No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 143 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 5 by Sofie Merckx on Article 68.(2349/21) Vote on Amendment No 5 to Rule 68 by Sofie Merckx.(2349/21) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip156x.u28	Yes [[26]] Yes No. 111 No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 143 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 68 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 68 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 7 by Sofie Merckx on Article 73.(2349/21) Vote on Amendment No 7 to Rule 73 by Sofie Merckx.(2349/21) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip156x.u29	Yes [[26]] Yes No. 110 No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 140 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 73 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 73 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 8 by Sofie Merckx to insert an article 73/1 (n).(2349/21) Vote on Amendment No 8 by Sofie Merckx to insert an Article 73/1 (n).(2349/21) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip156x.u30	Yes [[25]] Yes No. 111 No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 140 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 9 by Sofie Merckx to insert an article 73/2 (n).(2349/21) Vote on Amendment No 9 by Sofie Merckx to insert an Article 73/2 (n).(2349/21) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip156x.u31	Yes [[26]] Yes No. 111 No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 141 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 10 by Sofie Merckx to insert an article 73/3 (n).(2349/21) Vote on Amendment No 10 by Sofie Merckx to insert an Article 73/3 (n).(2349/21) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip156x.u32	Yes [[26]] Yes No. 111 No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 141 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 11 from Sofie Merckx to insert an article 73/4 (n).(2349/21) Vote on Amendment No 11 by Sofie Merckx to insert an Article 73/4 (n).(2349/21) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip156x.u33	Yes [[29]] Yes No. 110 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 141 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 12 by Sofie Merckx to insert an article 73/4 (n).(2349/21) Vote on Amendment No 12 by Sofie Merckx to insert an Article 73/4 (n).(2349/21) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip156x.u34	Yes [[28]] Yes No. [[109]] No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 139 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 13 by Sofie Merckx to insert an article 73/5 (n).(2349/21) Vote on Amendment No 13 by Sofie Merckx to insert an Article 73/5 (n).(2349/21) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip156x.u35	Yes [[28]] Yes No. 106 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 136 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. This concludes the votes on the amendments, all of which are rejected. We can move on to voting on the articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip156x.u36	Madam President, you announced the vote on the split vote. We will abstain because the split does not allow us to express our voting behaviour in a sufficiently nuanced manner, because it concerns blocks. For our position on each article, we refer of course to the committee reports, where this has proved possible. But here we are obliged to abstain.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip156x.u37	In the same vein, even if split voting may sometimes be useful, so much here, we really do not understand the logic involved in this split of articles. It seems to me to be completely next to the plate. Just by taking the first block of articles 1 to 37, we have about ten different chapters. Of course in committee, on sports clubs, researchers, real estate companies, childcare, the non-deductibility of criminal transactions, we voted quite differently. Therefore, how to cast a single vote on ten different chapters. I think what applies to the first block applies to the next blocks. I'm looking for an adjective that might qualify this approach but to stay polite, I can't find one. We will abstain because, quite simply, it makes no sense, which will not prevent us from voting against the entire programme law.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip156x.u38	Madam President, I will remain consistent. With regard to the numbering of votes from 19 to 30, our group will abstain a number of times. These abstentions will have to be interpreted as being, for certain articles, a vote against, and for other articles in these blocks, a vote in favour, and for other articles, an abstention. Block by block, we will abstain unless we vote on some blocks positively. I would like this interpretation of these votes to appear. For the programme law as a whole, we will vote negatively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip156x.u39	Mrs Fonck, you spoke perfectly. It was understandable. Vote on Articles 1 to 37.(2349/20) Vote on Articles 1 to 37.(2349/20) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip156x.u40	Yes [[84]] Yes No. [[20]] No Abstentions 40 Abstensions Total 144 Total Articles 1 to 37 have been adopted. Articles 1 to 37 were adopted. Vote on Rules 38 to 43.(2349/20) Vote on Articles 38 to 43.(2349/20) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip156x.u41	Yes [[84]] Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 59 Abstensions Total 145 Total Articles 38 to 43 have been adopted. Articles 38 to 43 were adopted. Vote on Rules 44 to 47.(2349/20) Vote on Articles 44 to 47.(2349/20) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip156x.u42	Yes [[85]] Yes No. [[19]] No Abstentions 41 Abstensions Total 145 Total Articles 44 to 47 have been adopted. Articles 44 to 47 were adopted. Vote on Rules 48 to 55.(2349/20) Vote on Articles 48 to 55.(2349/20) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip156x.u43	Yes 105 Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 38 Abstensions Total 145 Total Articles 48 to 55 have been adopted. Articles 48 to 55 were adopted. Vote on Rules 56 to 63.(2349/20) Vote on Rules 56 to 63.(2349/20) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip156x.u44	Yes 105 Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 38 Abstensions Total 145 Total Articles 56 to 63 have been adopted. Articles 56 to 63 were adopted. Vote on Rules 64 to 73.(2349/20) Vote on Rules 64 to 73.(2349/20) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip156x.u45	Yes [[85]] Yes No. [[19]] No Abstentions 41 Abstensions Total 145 Total Articles 64 to 73 have been adopted. Articles 64 to 73 were adopted. Vote on Rules 74 to 79.(2349/20) Vote on Rules 74 to 79.(2349/20) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip156x.u46	Yes 101 Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 41 Abstensions Total 144 Total Articles 74 to 79 have been adopted. Articles 74 to 79 were adopted. Vote on Rules 80 to 94.(2349/20) Vote on Articles 80 to 94.(2349/20) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip156x.u47	Yes [[84]] Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 58 Abstensions Total 144 Total Articles 80 to 94 have been adopted. Articles 80 to 94 were adopted. Vote on Articles 95 to 97.(2349/20) Vote on Rules 95 to 97.(2349/20) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip156x.u48	Yes 102 Yes No. 3...................................................................................................................... 3...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... No Abstentions 40 Abstensions Total 145 Total Articles 95 to 97 have been adopted. Articles 95 to 97 were adopted. Vote on Rules 98 to 103.(2349/20) Vote on Rules 98 to 103.(2349/20) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip156x.u49	Yes [[85]] Yes No. [[19]] No Abstentions 41 Abstensions Total 145 Total Articles 98 to 103 have been adopted. Articles 98 to 103 were adopted. Vote on Rules 104 to 117.(2349/20) Vote on Articles 104 to 117.(2349/20) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip156x.u50	Yes 101 Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 42 Abstensions Total 145 Total Articles 104 to 117 have been adopted. Articles 104 to 117 were adopted. Vote on Rules 118 to 155.(2349/20) Vote on Articles 118 to 155.(2349/20) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip156x.u51	Yes [[84]] Yes No. [[19]] No Abstentions 42 Abstensions Total 145 Total Articles 118 to 155 have been adopted. Articles 118 to 155 were adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip156x.u52	Before we proceed to the vote on the draft, I would like to say a word to you, as usual, at the end of the year. Ladies and gentlemen, we come to the end of a year as complex as the previous one. We are willing to learn to live at the pace of this pandemic, surfing from wave to wave, varying from wave to wave, constantly adapting. The Special Commission for the Review of Pandemic Management, established in 2020, issued its final report. It was last September, when the Pandemia Act, on administrative police measures in an epidemic emergency, was adopted in August, after a long legislative process. A completely new procedure in our Parliament, since it was decided that the preliminary bill should be debated and heard in Parliament just after the government had approved it at first reading. The corona crisis was prominent in our debates, as demonstrated by the impressive arsenal of legislation we have adopted. For example, we have approved temporary corona support measures and our National Plan for Recovery and Resilience was approved by the European authorities. But many other subjects that have a direct impact on the daily lives of the population have been examined. I am thinking of the clarification of the energy bill, the evolution of energy prices and the control of the electricity market. To mention only a few other concrete advances, the bereavement leave has been extended, the brothers and sisters of separated parents now have the right to remain together, the Constitution has been revised to guarantee the right to full inclusion in society for persons with disabilities. The Chamber has been working for a long time to develop an inclusive society, through its parliamentary work, through its infrastructure or as an employer. Our debates can now be followed more easily by deaf and deaf people because Question Time is translated into sign language in plenary. Now that the end of the year is approaching, I have asked the services of the Chamber to review this project with the associations concerned for the first time from January onwards. I am well aware of the path we still have to take. I have therefore asked for a working group to be set up to examine how we can improve the physical and digital accessibility of our institution. This is an important factor for the democratic strength and effective transparency of our work. Another important special commission, the special commission to examine the independent state of the Congo (1885-1908) and the colonial past of Belgium in the Congo (1908-1960), its consequences and the follow-up that should be reserved for it, has heard from many experts over the past year. Their reports have been sent to the authorities of the countries concerned and are available on our website. In environmental matters, a number of important initiatives have been taken, including a resolution on COP26 and a law on greener mobility. In early December, the Chamber acted as a precursor by adopting a motion for a resolution to recognize the crime of ecocide in international criminal law. Our Parliament thus becomes the first of Europe to ask for such recognition from the International Criminal Court in The Hague. It's not nothing! Yesterday, the Chamber adopted the 2022 budget, and part of it was earmarked for the preservation of the Chamber's heritage. With the Sustainability Fund, we will be able to finance investments in energy-saving interventions over several years, such as insulation, photovoltaic panels or hybrid vehicles. We will also be able to invest in sustainable measures, such as greening the courtyards. More than ever, it is essential that this historic, yet modern, heritage be upgraded. In this respect, the Tondo, our gateway opened in 2021, sign of the alliance between the Palace of the Nation and the Forum is honored in the specialized press and contributes to the awards 2022 of visit from the Russians that reward the cultural and tourist initiatives of the capital. Many visitors have indeed discovered our gateway over the past year. The Tondo is also one of some 500 projects selected for the European Union's Prize for Contemporary Architecture Mies van der Rohe 2022. In April, we will know if the Tondo wins, which would give our institution greater visibility on the Belgian and European scene. Colleagues, as early as January 2022, another important project awaits us. The Belgian presidency of the European Union, which will take place in January 2024, will have strong implications for the work of the House and the Senate. The services are preparing for it now. Our two assemblies are working together to complete this presidency. I hope that this presidency will be an opportunity to strengthen synergies between our two assemblies and to demonstrate that Belgium is a democratic example in the Union. I would also like to point out that in October last year, citizens' debates on the future of Europe were held in our Chamber. As we know, the participative dimension becomes a fundamental aspect of project membership. It is up to each and every one of us to make it a reality. For as Pierre Mendès-France already said, because it depends essentially on the will of the citizens, because it presupposes a permanent effort, democracy is never acquired. Ladies and gentlemen, as this year is coming to an end, I would like to thank the Registrar and the entire staff of the Chamber for once again continuing to work efficiently in all circumstances, while the number of meetings continued to increase. (Applause) (Applause) I would also like to thank the government and the journalists who have followed our work. Finally, I must not forget the military commander, nor should I forget all personnel who are responsible for our security at the Palace of the Nation. I would also like to thank you for your daily commitment to our people and our democracy, for your many exchanges – sometimes lively – and more than ever before, I wish you all a good health and much success throughout this new year 2022. [[Applause from the European Democratic Group]] [[)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip156x.u53	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip156x.u54	Yes 78 Yes No. 57 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft programme law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. As a result, the House passed the program bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. ------------------------------------------------------------------ Vote/Vote 1(MOT211/1) - Mr. Daniel Baquelaine voted like his group. Mr Michael Freilich has voted like his group. - Mr Maxime Prévot voted like his group. - Mrs Caroline Taquin voted as her group. Vote/Vote2 (MOT213/1) Mrs Katja Gabriels has voted like her group. - Mrs Laurence H annoyance voted like her group. Mr Egbert Lachaert has voted like his group. Mrs Kathleen Verhelst, like her group, voted. - Mrs Caroline Taquin voted as her group.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip156x.u55	Votes/Stemingen 4-6(2349/21) - Mr. Nabil Boukili voted as his group. - Mr. Gilles Vanden Burre voted as his group.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip156x.u56	Vote/Vote 7(2349/21) Mrs Nathalie Dewulf has voted like her group.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip156x.u57	Votes/Voices 13-16(2349/21) Mr Pieter De Spiegeleer has voted like his group.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip156x.u58	Vote/Vote 17(2349/21) Mr Pieter De Spiegeleer has voted like his group. - Mrs. Sophie Rohonyi voted like Mr. François De Smet. Votes/Stemingen 19-30(2349/20) - Mrs Laurence H annoyance voted like her group. Vote/Vote 31 (2349/20) Mr Jan Briers has voted like his group. - Mr. François De Smet voted like Mrs. Sophie Rohonyi. ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-23-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip156x.u59	We must approve the agenda for the meeting on 13 January 2022. We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for the meeting of 13 January 2022. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, January 13, 2022, at 2.15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 13 January 2022 at 2.15 p.m.
