ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic528x.u1	Mrs Reuter asked to postpone her question No 55015201C.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic528x.u2	Minister, this question was tabled some time ago, but it is therefore no less important. When the relaxations in the catering industry were announced, there was a great deal of dissatisfaction and discontent among the catering operators who had taken certain measures, such as investments in plexi screens. What was on the website of the FPS Economy turned out to be completely different from what your colleagues Van Quickenborne and Verlinden communicated and then what was eventually included in the ministerial decision. It caused consternation all over the place. I found the communication from the government very strange, and I wonder how you feel about it. After all, you have had regular consultations with the various federations of the catering industry. What exactly was discussed during the preparation of the re-opening protocols? What lessons have you learned from this for the future? What will you do to ensure that such blunders are no longer made?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic528x.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, your questions relate to the reopening of the terraces on 8 May. Since 9 June, the catering industry has been able to reopen the indoor spaces. In addition, new facilitations will enter into force on 27 June. These were decided by the Consultative Committee on 18 June. The protocols are drawn up with the support of the Coronac Commissioner and are validated by the relevant ministers, the Minister for Economic Affairs and myself. There has also been intense consultation with the Joint Committee 302, which brings together representatives of employers and employees in the catering sector. As regards the use of plexi screens, preparatory meetings were held with the Commissariat and the Committee 302 with a view to the reopening of 8 May. At these meetings, the use of plexi screens when the distance of one and a half meters between the tables could not be respected was never questioned. The height of the screens was specified in the draft protocol, in particular 1.80 metres. During the consultations within the Consultative Committee, the protocols on the strengthening of ventilation were discussed in particular. This was also the case for the reopening on 9 June, with the mandatory CO2 meters. Managers must respect a ventilation plan so that the air quality standard of 1,200 ppm within is not exceeded. Before the reopening of 8 May, the political debate focused on this aspect of ventilation, as well as on the dates of opening and opening hours. It also dealt with the separate reopening of the terraces and the interiors of the cases, the number of people at a table and so on. However, there has been no real debate on the plexi screens. That is why we have not asked the sector not to use it. It is true, however, that the report of the Consultative Committee did not explicitly mention the possibility of providing plexi screens, nor did it exclude them. Afterwards, for reasons of public health and to reduce customer concentration, new consultations took place and it was decided not to allow the use of plexi screens at that time. We know that the hospitality operators invested in this in 2020. It was therefore decided at the meeting of 18 June that the plexi screens should be allowed outside again as from 27 June. With regard to the other measures, on 4 June, the Consultative Committee agreed to hear the questions raised by the sector on certain additional points: harmonization of opening and closing hours with other businesses, both outside and inside, the possibility of serving at the bar for sole proprietorships and the possibility of buffets. These new conditions were incorporated into the Protocol. On 18 June it was decided to allow 8 people per table, without counting the children under 13. In addition, opening hours now run from 5 a.m. to 1 a.m. The ventilation rules were also specified. The use of an air quality measuring device is mandatory in the indoor area, except for an open terrace. This device must be installed in a way visible to visitors in each individual room of the store where something can be eaten or drunk. The guidance standard of 900 ppm CO2 shall apply. Between 900 and 1,200 ppm, the operator shall have an action plan to air, ventilate or purify the air. Above 1,200 ppm, the case has to be closed. As far as the deadlines for the publication of the protocols are concerned, I understand, of course, that the sectors want to know all the conditions for reopening early enough to prepare themselves. That's a legitimate question. I am personally in direct contact with all the professional federations involved, often even directly with restaurant or café owners. We provide this information as it is stabilised, in other words when there is certainty about it. It should be known that the last amendments to the Ministerial Decision were submitted to the Council of State for its opinion. However, this passage, which is absolutely necessary for a rule of law, will lead to a longer set-up period. The protocols cannot impose more flexible conditions than the minimum sanitary conditions laid down in the Ministerial Decision. Before the reopening of 9 June, the protocol for the catering industry was published on Monday 7 June. The information on the amendment before 27 June was already clear in the notification of the Consultation Committee of 18 June. The Ministerial Decision will be published shortly and the Protocols can be amended by 27 June.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic528x.u4	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You say that this 8 May 2021 was mainly about the fact that the terraces were allowed to open, about the number of people at a table and so on. But the debate on the plexi screens has not been conducted so much. Then I wonder if the focus wasn't there. Was that an oblivion or not? What is certain is that it was actually mentioned on the website of the FPS Economy until one day before the reopening of the terraces. That's a very weird thing to say. You have often been in consultation with the various catering federations. Exactly at such an important moment, when the terraces are allowed to open again, all these protocols are not discussed in detail with those people. In the meantime, they have made the investments, and we know that this sector is already having a very difficult time. It has also adapted its staff to the situation, to be told a few hours before the opening that what is on the website of the FPS Economy is not correct. If these people get angry, then who can ultimately blame them? Minister, I can only hope for two things. Firstly, I hope that every time you relax, you will check everything in detail with the various federations, so that they can also communicate it properly to their members. Secondly, I hope you will think carefully about all the new protocols that will be put into use in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic528x.u5	Mr President, I can only join my colleague. It's actually unbelievable how this all worked out. It wasn't supposed to happen from today to tomorrow either. Restaurants have been closed for months. So all this should have been perfectly prepared in detail. Nothing should have been left to chance. It wasn't the first time we've faced this situation. One would think that one learns by doing so, but apparently that was not the case. It is incredibly unfortunate, especially for the sector that has already had such a difficult time. Hopefully, lessons have been learned for the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic528x.u6	Debates of the European Parliament 55017614C by Mrs Matz will be converted into a written question. Question No 55017825C by Mrs Kattrin Jadin is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic528x.u7	Mr President, Mrs Creemers, the very recent reform of the Code of Economic Law on Abuse of Economic Dependence, Unlawful Terms and Unfair Market Practices between Enterprises is a legislative instrument that will be able to use the agricultural sector to better defend its interests in its B2B relations. In addition, the future law transposing the UTP Directive should be an instrument that will allow for even safer relationships between suppliers and customers. Within the FPS Economy, the Price Observatory plays a very important role in analysing the evolution of consumer prices, price levels, market forces and margins. The Price Observatory will analyse the margins in the agri-food sectors in order to assess the impact of the health crisis on these sectors. The analysis will be carried out next year, when the annual data for 2020 will be available. In addition, the Price Observatory will also carry out an analysis of the functioning of the market in the pigmeat sector. With regard to points two and three, I have committed myself to giving our farmers the means to enjoy a safe income. In this respect, my cabinet is currently in contact with the FPS Economy to lay the foundations for a law on the protection of agricultural prices. The first meetings dealt with the analysis of the French projects in this field and the concrete effects of the French legislation, which was developed mainly by the ECLIM Act. The benchmarking should be continued and extended to other models. With regard to controls and sanctions, the Economic Inspectorate is competent to take criminal action in case of sale with loss of goods, including food, in accordance with Book VI of the Code of Economic Law. Reports of potential losses are initially analysed and then subject to criminal investigations. Criminal fines may range from EUR 208 to EUR 200,000, provided that bad faith can be established. Your last question falls within the competence of the Department of Health and must be addressed to the Minister responsible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic528x.u8	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. I look forward to the law on the protection of farm prices. Last time it was my colleague and chairman, Mr Van Hecke, who asked you a number of questions about the sale of meat products and, above all, the promotion of meat products. I had now seized the example of France to ask my question. In France, promotions on meat containing more than 33% of the consumer price are prohibited. A first step towards introducing the law on the protection of agricultural prices, by looking at this French example and acting proactively, would reassure me. After all, that would be a very good example to roll out in Belgium as well. I have, as you know, discussed very thoroughly your policy statement on agriculture and food safety with you. I welcome the fact that you want to do all kinds of things to give our farmers a fair price for their goods. So I'm looking forward to seeing that law transposed. You refer to the Minister of Health for my last question. I already asked him that question. However, there are also a number of possibilities in your competence package to intervene on prices through price strategies together with the Minister of Health, so that a healthy choice for consumers is also the most logical choice. However, I propose that, as soon as Minister Vandenbroucke comes out with his plan on healthy nutrition, I refer the matter to you again.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic528x.u9	Mrs Houtmeyers, as provided for in the summer plan, can indeed take place again since 9 June, provided that the minimum conditions laid down in the Ministerial Decision of 28 October 2020 are respected. The terms and conditions are also explained in the guide to the opening of the trade published by the FPS Economy on its website. There is no specific protcol for the bridles. Like the markets, the brocante markets and the fairgrounds, the bridles are subject to the same regime as laid down in Article 14 of the Ministerial Decree I have just mentioned. Until 26 June, now Saturday, this implies indeed checking the access to the site and limiting the number of persons to one person per one and a half meter stall. These conditions were deleted after the Consultation Committee of 18 June. Because I am aware of the great organisational difficulties that these conditions cause, I have argued for relaxations that I have also obtained. From 27 June onwards, the maximum number of visitors per one and a half meter of stalls on each side of the stall or attraction will be removed, as will the obligation to organise a system of access control. On the other hand, the wearing of a mask for customers and the outpatient trader is compulsory. Finally, when a market, an annual market, a bridle, a brocante market, a flea market or a carnival receives more than 5,000 visitors at the same time, a one-way circulation plan must be developed with a separate entry and exit into the market or fairground. The complete arrangement of these events is set out in Article 10 of the Ministerial Decree which should be published in the Belgian Official Journal during the week.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic528x.u10	Thank you, Minister. I think it is absolutely a good thing that the one-and-a-half metres were removed. This offers a lot of new opportunities for bridles and markets. People will therefore be very satisfied, and this can only benefit our trade. The fact that the duty of masking is maintained does not seem to me to be abnormal at all, as does the one-way traffic.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic528x.u11	Mr President, I would like to make a general comment. I was pretty confused when I was just looking at the agenda of the questions. Until last night, there were two questions on my agenda about poultry. This morning I received an e-mail from the secretariat that those questions had been referred to the Committee on Health. I find that very strange, because those questions were put on 22 March and I looked forward to getting an answer after three months. Now it seems that I have to wait again for a meeting of the Health Committee, as my questions were not there for the round of questions that took place there on 7 June. So I regret having to wait again. I can expect the services to refer a question directly to the appropriate committee as soon as she comes in, so that someone does not have to wait three months for an answer. So I hope to get an answer soon. As far as my written questions are concerned, I had to say on several occasions that the deadlines for replying had expired. We can do better in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic528x.u12	A few questions were transferred to the other committee, and a decision was taken today or yesterday. Could you explain what happened?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic528x.u13	To my knowledge, there are two questions about chickens, but they fall within the Health jurisdiction. These issues have therefore been transferred to the Health Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic528x.u14	The questions were tabled on March 22. Why did you wait until yesterday?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic528x.u15	In fact, the preliminary agenda is drawn up by the committee services. There is often confusion between matters decided by Parliament, and not by the cabinet. For our part, when we receive the draft agenda, we then correct it by informing the services that they have erred on a particular issue. This is not our responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic528x.u16	Yes, but if the question is filed on March 22nd...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic528x.u17	This is the distribution as decided by Parliament. If this is a matter for the Committee on Health, in this case the problems of avian and other influenza, the relevant questions are always addressed to the Committee on Health. We are systematically correcting, because there is never a correct agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic528x.u18	It may be necessary to communicate with the services in order to have good agreements, as it is not pleasant for the members of the commission. I will also ask the services to deal with this issue with the firms in order to avoid a recurrence of this situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic528x.u19	Minister, I refer to my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic528x.u20	Mrs Dierick, the Order of Veterinarians is a mixed public institution. In other words, it is a legal person governed by public law, the characteristic of which is that it has been established by unilateral legal act of the government and is entrusted with one or more public service tasks. The High Council shall be responsible for determining the general conditions, functioning and administration of the order. I have not yet received the statistics from the Secretariat of the Order. I'll get them to you as soon as I get them. The procedure for the appointment of veterinary members of the different councils shall be governed by the same law and the Royal Decree of 26 December 2015 laying down the conditions and detailed rules for the elections to the Order of Veterinarians. It concerns the High Council of the Order, two mixed councils of appeal and two regional councils. The duration of the mandates is also determined by law. I can provide you with an annex with more details on the composition of the organs. I propose that they be annexed to this reply. As regards the operation of the order, the orders of the Board of Order are laid down in the Law of 19 December 1950 establishing the Order of Veterinarians. The Supreme Court is the interlocutor of the government. One of its tasks is to advise on all matters relating to the practice of veterinary medicine and to propose any administrative and legislative measures related thereto. These deontological and advisory tasks are the main tasks of public service. As far as the evaluation of order is concerned, I was not informed about an audit carried out. It is true that in the past there were internal problems between the Supreme Court and the Dutch-speaking regional council. However, I do not have the authority to intervene in possible internal problems in the area of order. The law of 1950 provides for an internal procedure in the order and states that the authority of the order rests with the Supreme Court, the two mixed councils of appeal and the two regional councils.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic528x.u21	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive reply. I understand I'll get some more information. I'll take a closer look at it first.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic528x.u22	Minister, as announced in Minister Vandenbroucke's ventilation plan and confirmed in several media, there will be an obligation in restaurants to have a meter where you can see the indoor air quality rate in order to ensure the safest possible reopening of the Horeca as of June 9. For establishments that do not have enough windows, it is therefore logical to imagine that air purifiers will be necessary. In this regard, there is also a need to standardize such systems to prevent dangerous or ineffective infrastructure from being put in place. Many questions relating to this breakdown plan, particularly with regard to aids and usable equipment, remained within the horeca sector. Minister, how will these standards be defined and by whom will they be controlled? Are financial assistance provided to help horeca establishments to equip, where appropriate, with air purification systems? How will practical information be communicated to the sector?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic528x.u23	Mr Vanden Burre, with regard to the standards in force for air purification systems and control procedures, I would like to refer you to the Minister of Public Health, who is responsible for this. It adopted the ministerial decree of 12 May which you referred to. For my part, the protocol horeca for the reopening of June 9 was published on the website info-coronavirus.be on Monday, June 7. It is accompanied by a document drawn up by the Corona police station and the SPF Economy entitled "Disaggregation action plan for the horeca sector". This document is intended for the managers of the Horeca establishments in order to support them in the implementation of the ventilation obligations imposed on them under the ministerial decree covid-19, whose aim is to ensure good air quality and thus a less presence of the covid in the closed spaces of the establishments. The document recalls that the use of an air quality measuring device is mandatory in indoor spaces unless it is a covered terrace. This device must be installed in a visible manner for visitors in each separate room of the establishment intended for the consumption of drinks and meals. The target standard of 900 ppm CO2 is applicable. Between 900 and 1,200 ppm, the operator must have an action plan to ensure compensatory measures for ventilation, ventilation and/or air purification. In excess of 1,200 ppm, closure of the facility is required. The ready-to-use action plan template is available on the information-coronavirus.be/ventilation website.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic528x.u24	Minister, thank you for your answers. I will look at this in detail and question the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic528x.u25	Mr President, a great deal has already been said about catering and CO2 meters, so I shall refer to my written question. But perhaps a little extra emphasis on whether this will also become mandatory for other companies, for example in the case of teleworking in ordinary companies during the autumn?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic528x.u26	Mrs Houtmeyers, as I have already mentioned, the protocol for the reopening of the catering sector was published on the site infocorona on 7 June last. It includes in a detailed manner all obligations borne by the hospitality operators in respect of the air quality, ventilation and use of the CO2 meter. The obligations for the catering and fitness sector to install a CO2 meter have been known since the notification of the Consultation Committee of 11 May and have been communicated to the sectors. It is true that the placement of a CO2 meter in each individual room where customers can drink or eat was specified after the protocol. However, it is a matter of common sense that there must be a healthy air quality in each room in order to prevent COOVID-19. However, it is not mandatory to place a CO2 meter in the kitchen, the cloakroom or the toilets. Finally, this meter must be clearly visible and customers must be able to consult the screens. I understand that the operators who have not yet been able to buy such a meter are concerned. If they can prove their good faith by proving that they have ordered the material and are waiting for it, then common sense must also be shown here. I invite you to ask the Minister of Health about the approach he recommends with regard to controls. I am in permanent contact with the hospitality sector regarding the application of the protocol. You can be sure of that. As far as fitness centres are concerned, it is the Community Sport Ministers who are responsible for the protocol.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic528x.u27	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I did not receive an answer to one question, particularly on the possible extension to other sectors in the autumn.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic528x.u28	Anything is possible, but I have no knowledge of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic528x.u29	Then we hope to find out very quickly, if necessary, so that everyone can start well prepared for the autumn.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic528x.u30	The draft law transposing the UTP Directive represents a major step forward for the weakest parties in the agri-food chain and in particular for producers, who see their rights considerably strengthened. Some fifteen unfair commercial practices will now be strictly regulated. The most problematic of them, nine in number, will simply be banned. Control mechanisms will be developed and sanctions will be provided for. It is therefore a solid and balanced text. It shall contain a black list of prohibited practices and a grey list of prohibited practices, unless there is an explicit agreement between the Parties. When you refer to amendments, you will probably refer to the ceiling set by the directive for a turnover of EUR 350 million, which will determine which enterprises in the agri-food chain are protected by the new regime. Perhaps you think that companies with higher turnover should be protected in their relations with Belgian distributors. Of course, that is not the case. That is why the European Commission, the European Parliament and the Council of the European Union have agreed on this ceiling. You are also wrong to fear that the 30-day payment periods would be detrimental to farmers. The Directive provided for a maximum payment period of 60 days for non-corruptible foods and 30 days for perishable foodstuffs. The draft text for the transposition of the Directive has brought the two schemes into line with the best 30-day deadline for farmers. Your fear is therefore unfounded. I also confirm that the item is the subject of regular consultations with the agriculture ministers of the regions and that it was on the agenda of the latest Inter-Ministerial Conference on Agriculture on 17 June. Moreover, from the start of the transposition procedure, I organised regular consultations, not with one sector but with all the sectors concerned. I have undertaken to continue this consultation when it comes to finalising the implementing decisions. As for timing, the bill is now with the Council of State. We should receive the advice within one month. It will then be submitted to Parliament. So we'll probably be able to discuss it after the recess, maybe in September.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic528x.u31	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The agricultural organisations such as the Farmers' Union and the GBS are disappointed and concerned about the transposition of the European directive. I therefore suggest that you consult these agricultural organisations in order to work out the best possible solution. After all, at European level, the concerns and viability of the primary sector in our country are not always awakened. Companies in Eastern Europe are receiving massive aid, often at the expense of companies in Belgium and, of course, the taxpayer, who ultimately takes the fall. I refer to the trade agreements with which Europe wants to export, among other things, cars and pharmaceutical products worldwide, but which also open our borders to imports of cheap agricultural products from all corners of the world, from countries where labour costs, standards and regulations are much laxer and lower than here. This puts pressure on the viability of our farms and livestock farms. With the Flemish Interest, we expect nothing less than that you will do everything you can and will fight to safeguard the interests of our agricultural and livestock farms.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic528x.u32	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I had asked a number of questions about the turnover threshold of EUR 350 million. This is a directive with minimal harmonisation, which means that Member States may deviate from it. I have learned from articles in Velt, among others, that Minister Borsus is concerned that certain cooperatives are not protected under the EUR 350 million rule. He is concerned about it and dares to argue for it to be increased. Unfair is unfair, whether one is very large, large or small. Unfairness must be stopped. I would urge you to listen again to the concerns of the regional ministers about this, of Ministers Borsus and Crevits. We can set a higher limit. We should not let go of that provision; there may be an option to raise the ceiling. I hope that further discussions will take place. We are pleased that the text is coming. A lot of groups and agencies are waiting for it, so the sooner we can deal with it, the better.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic528x.u33	Mr President, Minister, in my rather comprehensive question, I am also asking for a lot of figures. It is also good for me if these figures are passed on in writing, as long as they are included in the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic528x.u34	Mr President, Mrs Dierick, I am not in a position to confirm or refute the figures you have quoted. The FPS Economy does not have the study mentioned and cannot provide any further figures. Furthermore, the FPS Economy does not carry out any study or monitoring of the problem of late payment between companies. However, the studies carried out annually by Graydon at the request of UNIZO and the UCL clearly show that the problem of late payment in the b2b is serious. These studies give an overview of the sectors in which this lag is most frequent or greatest, as well as the amounts involved. So the problem is well known. Therefore, the government agreement provides that measures will be taken to counter late payment. With regard to your bill on late payment, you know that I have delivered a positive opinion on it. The adoption of this bill could be a decisive step in the fight against late payment. Finally, I am also working on improving practices in b2g relationships under the common plan to improve access to public procurement for SMEs. In parallel, in order to avoid the bankruptcy of healthy companies, as you know, I have worked actively with the Minister of Justice with a view to reforming the judicial reorganisation procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic528x.u35	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his comprehensive reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic528x.u36	Mr Minister, I submitted this question in writing on 25 January. Since the deadline for the reply had expired, I turned it into an oral question. I refer to the question submitted and I would like to receive the figures requested in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic528x.u37	Mr President, I have figures in the annex, but I will first give the answer. I have precise figures. In summary, 120,000 self-employed people started their activity in Belgium in 2019. This is an increase compared to previous years. Of the starters, 37 per cent were women and 63 per cent were men. In 2019 there were 400,000 self-employed women in Belgium. This corresponds to 35% of the 1.100.000 active self-employed in our country that year. This is an increase of 12.2% compared to 2015. In the last 10 years, the number of self-employed women has increased slightly more, by 2.5%, than men, by 1.8 %. It is in the sectors of the liberal professions and commerce that we see the largest number of female start-ups in 2019. Next comes the services sectors in industry. The sectors with the lowest number of self-employed women are fisheries and the various categories. For more details, it is also possible to consult the category 'SMEs and self-employed persons in figures' on the website of the FPS Economy. The section is based on the official figures of the National Institute for Social Insurance of Self-employed Persons. More specifically as regards the agricultural sector, in 2019 there were 27,000 female self-employed persons, of whom 18,000 were in main occupation, 6,000 were in secondary occupation and 3,000 were active after retirement. In addition, 2,000 of these women worked in horticulture. In 2019 there were 6,000 women with the status of assisting wife in agriculture, of whom 600 were in horticulture. Between 2015 and 2019, the number of self-employed women in agriculture increased by 17.4% of the total of 27.000 in 2019. As regards the policy in favour of the self-employed women, to support the entrepreneurs in the current crisis context, a public contract was launched on 3 February 2021. The jury will discuss the selection of projects at the end of June. I will not fail to keep you informed of this. A total of four projects can be carried out, one in the Flemish Region, one in the Walloon Region, one in the Brussels Capital Region and one at national level. The budget is capped at EUR 70,000 per project, spread over 3 years. Projects should be organised in the hospitality, arts, events and recreational services, the commercial sector, specialised scientific and technical activities, administrative and support services. These projects may relate to other sectors if the objective is to accompany the self-employed in a process of conversion and/or reorientation of activities. The figures are more detailed in the annex to my written reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic528x.u38	Thank you, Minister, for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic528x.u39	Minister, could you give the annex to the secretariat?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic528x.u40	Yes.
