ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic366x.u1	Mr Secretary of State, in 2016, a Radicalism Unit was set up within the Aliens Office to carry out security screenings for migrant or refugee candidates. The risks arising from the establishment of such candidates on Belgian territory obviously call for a quick and precise response. The complexity of cases and the need for different public actors in such situations require a comprehensive and concerted approach. In this regard, in the context of your policy note, you indicate that you want to strengthen the work of the police officers in practice through comprehensive training, both to help detect trafficking in human beings and to inform about situations of transmigration. It's very important. Could you, then, tell me what training is currently being given to the members of this cell? What new training are you planning, together with your colleague from the Interior, for the police in the fight against trafficking in human beings? Will this training also include a focus on the terrorist threat and/or a strengthening of security screenings? What has been the evolution of the Radicalism Unit of the Aliens Office since its creation? Are there regular contacts with specialized services (SGRS, OCAM, State Security)? What procedures have been put in place and have they been the subject of a recent evaluation? What are the new objectives you want to give this cell in the medium term?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic366x.u2	Mr Pivin, to answer your first question, the agents of the Radicalism Unit of the Office for Foreigners have been trained with the main partners in the field of radicalism: State Security, General Intelligence and Security Service (SGRS), Coordinating Body for Threat Analysis (OCAM), and the Federal Police. In addition, they also receive ad hoc training with these same partners on topics falling within the scope of the dossiers dealt with by the unit. With regard to questions on police training, I must of course refer you to the Minister of the Interior. For your fourth question, since its creation, the Radicalism Unit has created and strengthened links with the intelligence and security services. Regular exchanges of information take place between the Aliens Office and its partners. In the framework of Plan R, the Office of Foreigners, through its Radicalism Unit, chairs a working group on Asylum and Migration, where are presented the migration services – Office of Foreigners, Office of the General Commissioner for Refugees and Stateless Persons, Fedasil – and the intelligence and security services – State Security, General Intelligence and Security Service, OCAM and Federal Police. In addition, the Radicalism Unit participates in the other working groups of Plan R. As far as Plan R is concerned, OCAM is responsible for evaluating the activities carried out in this framework. Finally, in addition to the monitoring of meetings and individual files, the unit aims to produce more analytical sheets to support the work of the internal services of the Office of Foreigners and to sensitize them, with explanatory sheets, for example, on specific movements or organisations, as well as with analyses of the topics addressed during the Asile and Migration working group of Plan R.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic366x.u3	Mr Secretary of State, I thought you were involved in the new police training, but I would be happy to ask the Minister of the Interior about it. I would like to take this opportunity to remind you that I have also sent you a written question on the same subject, asking you about the composition of the cell, the number of people involved in the crime that would have been referred to you following reports from the cell, etc. These are obviously numerical questions. I will wait until I receive your answers before I may come back to this issue. I thank you, in any case, for the elements that you have already transmitted to me today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic366x.u4	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, a few weeks ago we learned of the appointment of the new Managing Director of Fedasil, Mr Michael Kegels, to replace Mr Jean-Pierre Luxen. If I may, I would like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to the work done by the latter during all these years. It was not a long, quiet river for him. It has experienced political instability, repeated crises, but also the covid crisis. He has been able to stay on course and even more, as demonstrated by the Fedasil Public Enterprise of the Year award. This has been a tremendous recognition of the work done by all the employees of this Agency. He was also able to build a real reception network as well as real relationships with his partners. Michael Kegels is also a person I know well because he was my direct supervisor when I worked at Fedasil. You give a beautiful signal by designating an in-house person, who knows the network, who not only has a passion for migration policy, but also for Fedasil. I would therefore like to congratulate you and wish Mr Kegels good luck. My question, therefore, is not about this designation, but about the three main functions within migration-related administrations. Today, we can see that these three main mandates are carried out by Dutch speakers. This is the case of the Commissioner General for Refugees and Stateless Persons, the Director General of the Aliens Office and, now, the Director General of Fedasil. I do not, of course, question their competence. Nor is there any desire for communityism on my part. But I wonder about the concern for linguistic balance within your administration. Mr Secretary of State, my question is very simple: what measures do you intend to take to promote this balance and within what time frame?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic366x.u5	Mr President, Mr Rigot, let me first confirm your compliments on Mr Jean-Pierre Luxen and Mr Michael Kegels, who deserve them. With Jean-Pierre, I did not have the opportunity to work long, but during the few months I had the opportunity to do so, the collaboration was remarkable. He is above all a remarkable man, whom I greet and whom I will always thank for the work he has done in circumstances not always among the most obvious. As you also say, Mr. Kegels is someone who has worked with Fedasil for a long time and has experience with him. He takes his work to heart and I think he is the best man to guide this organization. Secondly, I must refer to the Royal Decree of 16 April 2015 setting out the language frameworks of the Federal Agency for the Reception of Asylum Seekers. Within this legal framework, the most appropriate candidate will be selected. So we analyze a person's qualities. Among these, it is important to look at a person's qualifications, and not, initially, his or her mother tongue. At the same time, I would also like to point out that Dirk, Michael or Freddy, whom I now speak, are three perfectly bilingual people, who have a perfect command of French. That's a good thing. Personally, as a bilingually educated young man, I find it good to see that people in an organization are fluent in both languages. A message must be sent on both sides of the linguistic border. I would also like to point out that there is no link between the various organizations that fall within my jurisdiction, so the language regime was respected when Fedasil's new Director General was appointed, but it is not linked to the fate of the other two. In any case, I think that the people who are within the organization, not just the directors general, but all the others, demonstrate qualities, on the Dutch-speaking and French-speaking side, and I welcome that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic366x.u6	Mr Secretary of State, I do not doubt the competence of these three agents of important public functions, as you will have understood. Simply, I wanted to stress the importance of having the best in the best places. You confirm that this is your wish. It is also important to have different sensitivities, which are related to beings, whatever they are, from the north or the south. I was wondering when the process would begin at the level of the Aliens Office and the CGRA. Not that I want to replace one or the other, but it is also good to question each other, to respect the timings, to bring back new ideas, and to build new things. This is undoubtedly done by competition and by its own questioning. I am not talking about you, but about those who are in charge of our administrations and who must also, at some point, be revived. But I have no doubt that you will be able to make the best of these three administrations which are essential in asylum policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic366x.u7	Mr President, Secretary of State, I refer to an article in Het Nieuwsblad and 't Pallieterke dated 7 January 2021, which shows that the Secretary of State is investigating cooperation with countries such as Spain to expel migrants along that road. It is sometimes difficult for our country to deport them directly, but countries such as Spain sometimes have better return agreements. Professor Vanheule was critical of this idea and that is why I wanted to ask about its success. How are the calls on the premises today? Does Spain answer your question? Perhaps an agreement has already been reached and Moroccans have already been sent back from our country to Morocco via Spain? Do you have any other countries in your sights and have you had any conversations with them? Is the system also working in reverse and have we already expelled asylum seekers from other countries via our country because we have a readmission agreement with the country of origin?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic366x.u8	Mr President, Mrs Van Camp, the return of troubled North African migrants has been quite difficult, especially since the outbreak of the covid crisis. I am therefore looking for alternative ways of improving this return through bilateral contacts with other European countries. In consultation with Spain, we are therefore considering the launch of a pilot project on return sponsorship. These are the famous return sponsorships that are also mentioned at European level. I wish return sponsorship had been my invention, but it's not. This is contained in the proposal, including the European Commission, on the new European Asylum and Migration Pact. The basic principles are clear. If someone does not have the right to stay in Belgium, he must return to his country of origin. Return sponsorship will enable a Member State which is unable to allow a particular person to return to its own territory to receive assistance from the other Member States. It is therefore a form of European solidarity that contributes to better migration management. The impact at European level with all Member States is far too slow, as I have already said on several occasions. So I hope to be able to go faster with Spain, and also, if we succeed, to share our results and experiences in a European context. In this way, we are in a way testing the idea that perhaps later could be extended to other Member States and who knows, hopefully, in the long term also at European level in the elaboration of the European Asylum and Migration Pact, to which we are so desperately in need. In the meantime, the Spanish Minister for the Interior has already confirmed in writing that I am interested in the project. The specific question is ahead of Madrid at the moment. In the next phase, we will have to negotiate the concrete parameters between us and Spain. Finally, you asked whether we have already returned persons from other countries. Well, it's an experimental project. Previous governments have not yet been able to return deported asylum seekers from another country. Philosophy has been in negotiations at European level for some time now, and that is why we hope that we will now be able to achieve results on this, in cooperation with Spain, so that all the other countries also recognise that the European Asylum and Migration Pact must be established and that all countries must cooperate in solidarity in order to achieve a return effectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic366x.u9	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. I think it is a very good idea and also good that you are already working bilaterally, with one country, to try to move faster, as you see that things are slow at European level. I certainly hope for the success of the project with Spain. I will certainly ask you further about this in this committee, so that you can re-connect how far you stand with it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic366x.u10	Mr Secretary of State, the Committee on 12 January referred to the fact that, pending a political agreement on a solution to the detention of minors, you have already imposed a moratorium on families who deliberately refuse to cooperate in their return. Until there is a political agreement, you have made the agreement that these families will not be held for forced return either. When exactly was that appointment entered into? How was this agreement made, with working arrangements with the competent services, for example? Has there been any legal basis for this? How many people and families are already covered by this moratorium? So these are families who deliberately refuse to cooperate in their return, but are not being held for the sake of that moratorium. In these cases, have you applied the return coaching you always refer to, and have you done so in those cases? Do you have a deadline somewhere to hold on to the moratorium and above all to lift it? When exactly are you aiming for a political agreement? It was always your intention to come up with a political solution to the problem, wasn't it? When do you intend to find that solution and to suspend the moratorium?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic366x.u11	Mrs Van Camp, there is already a political agreement among the government parties to stop locking up minors in the closed centres. You were able to read that in the coalition agreement. That's the first instruction the Foreign Office received from the new cabinet. As with everything that is illegal, we do not have a precise view of the number of families in illegal residence. That's not the case now, and it used to be. In 2019, 2,765 families with minor children were ordered to leave the territory. Currently there are seven hundred families on the radar for coaching by the Sefor Department of Foreign Affairs. During the period when families with minors were locked up, a total of eight families were locked up. Regular reference is made to locking up families. Then it is always important to put that in a certain perspective. So it's a total of eight families that have been locked up. I can also add that the Foreign Affairs Service, as part of the coaching project for families with underage children launched last year and running in full since September 2020, has already invited 150 families to interviews. Of these, 100 families, two out of three, responded to the invitation. Several families have already indicated their willingness to participate in a voluntary return. For most families the route is still running. The housing units spread across our territory are further used, including for families with minor children who oppose voluntary return after coaching and for families with minor children who are refused entry into the territory.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic366x.u12	Mr Secretary of State, if I understand correctly, this agreement has been in force since the beginning of the legislature and you have already tried to start a return with these families by coaching, but none of the families have been able to do so for the time being. It is significant that the moratorium has been in force for so long, but no one has yet signed up for voluntary return. No one has returned effectively, and that is especially important. You can make as many attempts as you like, also the experts on return say that the result is often absent from a voluntary journey via coaching. Maybe it'll come. I will certainly ask you about it and hope so. You mention a few numbers. That is not about a large mass, but the hearings clearly showed that the stick behind the door is particularly important as a signal that the return is really taken seriously and that if that return is not voluntary, it will be enforced. If that stick falls behind the door, a lot of people will not return voluntarily either. For the N-VA that signal remains very important and it is a pity that it has disappeared.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic366x.u13	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, since the beginning of the first confinement last March, life in reception centres, like the lives of many of us, has been terribly affected. Measures have been necessary to guarantee containment: prohibited visits, cancelled French courses, suspended training, improvised football games now impossible, stopped volunteering and so many things that make life in collective structures difficult. The consequences of these drastic measures, imposed with the aim of halting the epidemic and which I fully understand, have done and continue to do damage to the residents, especially morally. Minister, is mental health monitoring in place for minors and adults in reception networks? As far as bridge classes are concerned, I have heard the previous question, which referred to a question about children. I refer here to the best interests of the child. Many young people in the open reception centre have not even been able to start school. Secretary of State, do you have any contact with your colleagues to find solutions so that these young people can be enrolled in school and start classes? In adults, the discontinuation of courses and training leads to serious delays. Their important integration - and not only for the Socialist Party - within our society is also at a standstill. What are you proposing as a solution? It is a fact that applicants for international protection suffer from the digital divide. Is there a specific subsidy for reception centres to facilitate their access to digitisation? Some residents have family in Belgium and have come here to find them, see MENA referents. (...) Is it possible to find a solution for these minors without family contact, while respecting sanitary conditions?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic366x.u14	Apparently there's a connection problem, Mr. Rigot. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, who understood the majority of your statement. If certain points have not been answered, I invite you to repeat them in your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic366x.u15	Mr Rigot, thank you for your question; I am fortunate to have the written text. It's easier because I admit the connection wasn't very good. This question is quite important. As you say, when we talk about children, we must also talk about mental and psychological follow-up. Mental health monitoring is carried out for each resident, regardless of age, requiring care in response to a need identified by a worker, a caregiver or the resident himself. If the care cannot take place in person, consultations are arranged by videoconference, either via the resident's telephone or through the medical office. As far as bridge classes are concerned, via Fedasil, there have already been regular contacts since the end of October 2020 with the relevant education offices. Within the reception facilities, certain training courses which are so essential for residents are again allowed in strict compliance with health rules. The measures are based on the current measures concerning the organisation of education and training for adults. Fedasil will be able to use the covid provision for expenses related to the "distance school" measure for the purchase of necessary equipment. In view of the current health situation, permissions with overnight stays are not allowed. With respect to current health rules, young people can meet family members outside the centre. Like any other resident, they are not allowed to visit persons belonging to a risk group or who are ill. About the covid crisis, I must say that all the Fedasil centers are doing a remarkable job. We must congratulate them. Fortunately, we have not experienced any great drama at this level – I touch wood for it to last.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic366x.u16	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. As Unia pointed out, which we heard from representatives two days ago about the covid report, we must avoid the dangers of discrimination - voluntary or not - and stigmatization. Indeed, we are not all equal in the face of this pandemic crisis and we do not enjoy the same comfort or facilities. It is certain that in collective reception structures which, as you say, perform their work remarkably, it is difficult to make freedom effective. For this reason, things are made more complicated. Therefore, collateral damage should be avoided as far as possible, which would also be terrible for applicants for international protection. Let's keep an eye on it. You have indicated, and I agree with you, that priority must be given to the health guarantee and the operation of the centres. It's a community life. Fedasil's staff put their whole heart to it and the processes are deployed to help it and, you are right, to avoid stigmatization. Hat! Indeed, it is certainly not there that a danger arises, since discipline is exemplary, with the contribution of staff and applicants for international protection.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic366x.u17	Thank you, Mrs. Van Camp. Hopefully we can deal with all the questions today, or deal with them in advance. Mr President, Mrs Van Camp, Frontex is important. We have just talked about the importance of a new European asylum and migration pact, and this also implies stronger external borders. Frontex certainly plays an important role in this respect. The European Union is working to improve the protection of external borders. In 2019, a regulation on the European Border and Coast Guard was adopted to give Frontex more power. Among other things, the Agency will have more staff and better technical equipment. Frontex will also be given a broader mandate to support Member States' activities in the fields of border protection, return and cooperation with third countries. Frontex is a decentralised EU agency financed by the general budget of the European Commission. Frontex therefore does not receive direct financial support from the European Member States. The only exception is the separate financial contributions from the associated Schengen countries, as they are not part of the European Union. With regard to your other questions, perhaps you can guess my answer. For our country, the federal police are on Frontex's board of directors. The federal police are therefore best informed of the daily administration of the agency. I would therefore ask you to put all the questions on recruitment, combating fraud and management to the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic366x.u18	Mr Secretary of State, I will. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic366x.u19	Secretary of State, the war against Daesh in Syria and Iraq is not over. On the contrary, Kurdish forces and Arab, Christian and Yezidi allies are continuing their fight against the Daesh cells in north-eastern Syria. Some of these courageous fighters were seriously injured. They have received care in Syrian hospitals, but some of them require specialized complementary care, which is impossible for them to receive on-site. These include prostheses, complex surgical procedures or eye interventions. I met these wounded two times last year during a visit to Kameshli in northeastern Syria. The authorities in the north-eastern Syrian Arab Republic are asking for permission to treat the wounded in Europe and in Belgium in particular. To this end, they request the possibility of obtaining short-stay visas for these injured persons. The Kurdish authorities are prepared to cover all the costs associated with these trips and specialized care. The only thing they ask the Belgian authorities is for a temporary stay in Belgium. In addition to these soldiers, civilians also require specialized care in Belgium. Again, the Kurdish authorities would cover all costs. Given the immense services rendered by these Syrian democratic forces (SDFs) in our fight against the Islamic State, it would seem difficult for us to understand that this extremely reasonable demand cannot be met. Mr Secretary of State, do you intend to respond favourably to this request? What is the procedure to be followed to ensure that these injured persons receive appropriate care as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic366x.u20	Mr Dallemagne, it is clear that the situation on the ground is far from ideal. To date, I have not received a formal request from the individuals concerned. Given the geopolitical situation, national security and human profiles, an in-depth review of each case will be necessary. However, the EU Visa Code provides for the possibility of applying for short-stay visas on an individual basis. This is possible for example for medical reasons. The person concerned will have to apply to a diplomatic post and will have to fulfil the general conditions for a short stay as a sufficient guarantee of return to his country. In addition, the person concerned must provide proof that medical care is not available in the country, that an appointment has been made with a treating doctor in Belgium and that the costs of treatment will be borne. The Aliens Office will assess the conditions and will respond to the visa application. As I said, we must assess, take into account national security. An evaluation must therefore be carried out by the Aliens Office, especially for this type of visa. The SIS (Schengen Information System) is automatically consulted when each short-stay visa application is introduced into the VIS (Visa Information System). In addition, it is checked whether the person has not received a ban on entry into the territory. The Aliens Office also has the possibility to request the opinion of the State Security for a specific file. In some cases, it even has access to the VIS system.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic366x.u21	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. I hear you are not opposed to some of those injured being treated in Belgium. You have indicated the procedure to be followed, saying that this was done on a case-by-case basis and that, of course, security issues had to be taken into account, which I believe is normal. I understand that the competent diplomatic post is that of Jordan. Could you confirm this information? This is where diplomats are active, especially for Belgian nationals detained in north-eastern Syria. If I understand correctly, the authorities in north-eastern Syria must turn to this diplomatic post to introduce the file you mentioned. Thank you for correcting me, if I made a mistake.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic366x.u22	Mr Dallemagne, the Secretary of State has no correction to make.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic366x.u23	Who says no word consent.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic366x.u24	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, this question concerns your comments in De Tijd on the return figures. How come the return figures have fallen back like this? Are you planning a catch-up when sending back asylum seekers who have been tried and rejected? When and how?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic366x.u25	Mr President, Mrs Van Camp, I understand that you are asking the question and that you want a statement. I think you know part of the explanation with me. I communicated the number of asylum applications for January the day before yesterday. At that time, they were 50% lower than the number of asylum applications in January 2020. I can and will give the same statement here. So I will not say anything else here, namely that we are currently in very specific circumstances, with a corona pandemic that has a significant impact on the going and coming, and therefore also on the number of asylum applications and the return figures. Even under the present circumstances, the forced return is carried out to the maximum by the Foreign Office. The relapse can be explained by the following. The maximum capacity of the closed centres was halved in order to be able to respect the distance rules. Moreover, capacity was not fully exploited either because there was only a limited number of quarantine sites and all new residents had to be quarantined at the beginning of their detention period. At the beginning of January I instructed my administration to investigate how the number of quarantine places could be increased. After all, we had a bottleneck. If there are only a limited number of quarantine places, then one cannot fill in enough places either, because everyone has to stay in quarantine for seven days before they can join the others. Increasing the number of quarantine places resulted in 14 additional places, which means that the total now stands at 60 quarantine places and the effective occupation of the closed centres increased between 1 and 28 January from 158 to 196 residents, just because we were able to get rid of that bottleneck through the additional quarantine places. In addition, many countries have closed their borders. A limited number of countries are very restrictive in admitting their own nationals, especially when it comes to forced return. However, those situations may change and are continuously monitored. The entry conditions imposed by the countries of destination also make disposal difficult. That goes from PCR tests on PLF forms to installing apps. If a negative COOVID-19 test is requested, the necessary steps shall be taken. Moreover, there is still a limited offer of flights at present, which means that they are quickly fully booked. The flight schedules are still volatile. Flights are also regularly cancelled. Finally, there are also far fewer passengers than in previous years, which also means that fewer entries are refused and there are therefore fewer departures at the border. The drift-backs at the border were often very present in the return figures, if I may express myself in this way. As there are fewer passengers coming, which we can drive back immediately at the border, they are also much less visible in the statistics. The removals have never stopped. You are talking about an article in De Tijd, but for example in De Morgen there was also an article about the return of persons with a criminal past. These figures have remained relatively stable despite the sanitary conditions. I also have talks with countries of origin which are still refusing to accept forced return. I have already said a few times in committee that I have already had some discussions with the ambassadors of Morocco, Tunisia and Egypt and with the Consul General of Algeria, in which I have encouraged them to cooperate. The Department of Foreign Affairs closely monitors the situation and responds to every change. Meanwhile, investments are being made to encourage more voluntary return and to create places in closed centres. In any case, many efforts are being made by my services to maximise forced removals under the current particularly difficult conditions. Just as I have just thanked the people at Fedasil for their difficult work in covidtimes, I would also like to do this very explicitly with regard to the employees of DVZ, who are also doing a very good job here in particularly difficult circumstances, especially when it comes to sending people back, where physical contact comes in. That is particularly difficult in covid times. That is why I would also like to thank them for doing a very good job in difficult circumstances. We have also clearly ensured the necessary priorities, namely to ensure that people with a criminal past are expelled from the country.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic366x.u26	Mr Secretary of State, I find it a little strange. You say yourself that you want to fight fake news and deliver the right numbers. You say that you have been able to keep about the same figures in relation to the removal of criminal illegals. The article to which you referred speaks of 1,100 compared to 1,500 the year before. In my arithmetic head that is absolutely not a stable figure, but it is a fallback of hundreds. Those figures are absolutely not stable. They've fallen back a lot. I really hope you get them back on track. After all, we have made a great effort during the previous period of government to remove, above all, those criminal illegals, people without a right of residence, who have also committed acts. I note that the figures have fallen while you say that they have remained stable. You're hiding behind Corona. I hope you will be able to increase the number quickly. You say that some countries have just closed their borders. However, there is still an influx from those countries, which remains very high, while we cannot send people who do not have the right to stay from those same countries back. I can't do that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic366x.u27	Mr. Secretary of State, in the media, you announced that you would immediately expel the imam in question. The headline in a newspaper was: "He who comes to sow hatred in our society has no place here." That immediately reminded me of an incident a few weeks or months ago. Then it was an illegal one that had scratched several vehicles. You then said that you were not competent to act against it and you referred to the Minister of Justice. Why do you say in one case that you will tell the person in question and not in the other? Apparently, the man has only been given an order to leave the country if I have understood the contents of the articles correctly. Of course, that's not the same as pointing out. It's strange that a secretary of state who wants to fight fake news doesn't straighten that out. Or has the man been deported by now? Can you clarify that? Did you also give the order to leave the territory effectively? Or is his card just not extended and ended? When the man is deported from the country, I'd like to hear exactly when that happened and on which flight. If an order to leave the territory has been issued, is there an appeal against it? Was this file followed up, too, with a final expulsion? Can you comment on the facts that have been committed? How exactly did they come to light? How were you informed?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic366x.u28	Mr Secretary of State, on Twitter you announce that those who come to sow hatred have no place in our society." In an article from De Tijd with the title: "Mahdi evicts man country after homophobic statements," it can be read that this is a Turkish imam who would have been given an order to leave the territory. You shared the article. You also endorse the message and the title on your personal Twitter profile. Mr Secretary of State, do immigrants who support or even convey the message of imam Yesil Camii have a place in Belgium? Will these migrants be deported consistently? I would like a concrete and clear answer to that question. Is this an exceptional position, or rather a position supported by a large part of the Muslim community? Have you actually deported imam Yesil Camii" as you say on Twitter? Or did you just give Yesil Camii an order to leave the territory or perhaps just not renew his residence permit? In the event that it is merely an order to leave the territory, do you know whether imam Yesil Camii has complied with this order? In the event that it is merely an order to leave the territory, do you think that your communication, in particular the words 'deporting the country', is correct?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic366x.u29	Colleagues Van Camp and Van Langenhove, I want to start with a turkish lesson, because I once had a Turkish girlfriend. Yesil Camii is the mosque, that's not the name of the person. Camii means mosque. Of course, not everyone can know that. I'm just gonna give it to you. I did not intend to mention it at first, but since you said it several times, I wanted to make it clear that it is the name of the mosque. I understand your questions and I will be happy to respond to them. The most important thing is and will remain what we think of this decision. I actually expected you as MPs to hear your opinion on this decision. Do you think this is the right decision or not? That in itself is worth a political discussion. I have certainly been clear, there is no place here for those who come to sow hatred in our society. I made that clear when a Danish preacher of hate wanted to come here. I just made the same decision back then. In this case, we are talking about a different type of hate speech, especially with regard to Holebi's. We cannot tolerate that. I'm taking these homophobic statements very seriously that have been made within the community. Whoever stays here has to abide by our laws. I look forward to clarifying this, in discussions with the members of this committee on their opinion on it. Does anyone who makes such statements have a place here or not? That was the first point, the decision. A second point is communication. I'm against fake news, but I'm against undermining or influencing journalism. After all, I am Secretary of State, not editor-in-chief. Maybe I can be later when, who knows, there's a career twist coming at me. At the moment, however, I am Secretary of State. In this capacity, I have always made it clear in my communication on the file that it is a decision in cooperation with the Foreign Affairs Office not to extend the right of residence of the man in question, which therefore follows an order to leave the territory. That's what I told you. You can question me about the newspaper title that is then put on top of it, but I am not the minister of truth, as can be read in some of Orwell's books. You'll have to leave that to someone else. I can only be clear about the signal we have given and about the decision that has been taken. A communication was made about the mosque Yeşil Camii. As regards the execution of the decision, the order to leave the territory is closely followed by the services. As always, the Sefor procedure applies to the person concerned. You also asked questions about the reasons for that decision. Well, after an investigation, it had turned out that the man on social media had shared hate messages against Holebi's. The responses to these messages clearly show that the man incites hatred. There is an essential difference just there. One may have one's own opinion and express that opinion, but anyone who encourages discrimination, violence or hatred commits a crime. Because of his role as an imam, the man has an exemplary role for his community of faith and society. Thus, in the performance of his duties, he has a great influence and will also pose a greater threat to our public order and national security. You're asking if this is the first imam to be deported. Well, the Foreign Affairs Office does not keep statistics of removals by profession. I cannot therefore give you any figures on those decisions related to the profession of those concerned. However, I can tell you that this man has been staying in Houthalen-Helchteren since 2018. Before that, from 2006 to 2014, he was also active as imam in Belgium. In order to be able to come to Belgium as an operator of a recognized service of worship, a single permit or work permit must be requested. I do not know whether there will be an imam from Turkey to replace this man, but I can assure you that any request to obtain or extend a stay as a servant of a recognized service will be properly examined by my services. When we receive information from the security services, we will act accordingly. It is also important to make a good distinction between the imam in question and statements made, and the mosque. That is why I would like to stress once again that it is important to know what people are talking about and not to drag the mosque completely, knowing that there is also good work from the Turkish community and from a lot of mosques to teach people in Islam in a way that we want. So there too we have to see that we make the distinction certain. Further questions were asked about the individual dossier. Like I'm not a minister of truth, I'm not a magistrate or a judge. I can't give you any further information on the individual file, I'll leave that to someone else. Meanwhile, the decision was made. I hope you believe that the statements made have led me to the right conclusion, in particular to give an order to leave the territory. I hope you can support that, too. I can only hope that when newspaper articles are published in future, the questions will be asked to the right person, not to myself.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic366x.u30	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. You say you're disappointed that you're not being accosted for this. My question is that this is entirely justified, and my question is why you did not act so heavily with a grain of salt, albeit against illegals who attack cars or inspectors and spit in the face. You didn't answer that. You are very selective in what you share in media. You are also very selective in adapting and in what you say. You say you're the secretary of state against fake news, and today you're not saying you're the minister of truth. In any case, the latter is correct, in both sentences of the word. You're saying that you're not the editor-in-chief, that you shared that article because you came out well, acting heavily against someone like that. However, I have already seen several e-mails from your cabinet to various editors to change things. You lie when you say that you are really not concerned with changing articles and that you are not acting as editor-in-chief. So you are neither the Minister of Truth nor the Secretary of State against fake news. You selectively share what suits you and you only go against messages that don't suit you. So far the form, with regard to the content you have only given an order to leave the territory. You have not answered my question as to whether an appeal against the expulsion decision has been lodged. I am therefore not at all reassured that this man has also effectively left the country. If I understand you correctly, that is not the case, he is still in the country today, with his famous BVG paper probably in his back pocket, and he is spreading further hate reports against gays and minorities. If you're satisfied with a tweet that he's been deported, it's on you. I would have felt much better if you had acted effectively and said today that this man was deported and that you should have done the same with those illegals who scratched dozens of cars and spit in the face of inspectors. If you can do such things, you will indeed be haunted by Parliament, or at least by my group.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic366x.u31	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for the very interesting lesson Turkish. In recent years, I have seriously updated my French, but if we look at the future, it might be wiser to learn some Turkish. You ask my opinion on this case, you ask whether we are not happy with a firm policy. Mr Secretary of State, I would be pleased if there were at last a firm migration policy, but there is no such policy. You haven't pursued a firm policy, you've spread fake news. You may say that you are not the Minister of Truth, but you have deliberately chosen to share that article from Time. The title of that article is pure fake news, because that man has not been deported. Like so many other illegals, he has received a piece of paper that he will most likely ignore. And you can't even tell me if your orders have already been obeyed. So you spread fake news, you didn't deport that man from the country at all. It is difficult for us to support that. You say you will not influence journalism, but you do choose what you spread. In this case it is quite clear that you have chosen this article because you can come out with it toughly. You have accused your predecessors of this, but you are actually doing exactly the same thing. I suggest that you follow this case closely and that in future you consider what you are spreading through your social media.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic366x.u32	Secretary of State, teşekkür ederim ("thank you very much" in Turkish). In this way, we are improving our colleagues' knowledge of Turkish and demonstrating the great and beautiful diversity of this multilingual country. Tomorrow, February 6, will be the International Day to Combat Female Genital Mutilation. As you know, an action was organised this morning in front of your office and that of your colleague Mrs Schlitz. The initiators are the parents of these young girls, who came to shout their disarray and explain the extremely complicated situations they face. For example, mothers have no income. Secondly, although their daughters are recognized, they themselves are not recognized and therefore cannot access housing, various aids or property that would help them to lead a decent life. This is all the more true in this period of covid. While girls currently or potentially victims of genital mutilation must be protected under the right of asylum, we consider it particularly inhuman that such recognition entails a risk of separation within families. However, this is the risk posed by our asylum policy. As you know, a change in jurisprudence was made at the Foreign Litigation Council (CCE) on December 19, 2019. The secondary refugee status no longer applies to the parents of minor children. In other words, the maintenance of the family unit is not used to assign this status to the child's mother. Such an amendment clearly violates Article 23 of the European Qualification Directive, which Belgium has still not transposed into national law. In addition, this is a violation of the principle of mainstreaming the best interests of the child in every decision concerning the child. For parents, the only current solution is to ensure that discretion through Article 9bis is granted to them. This procedure is costly and gives rise to considerable legal uncertainty precisely because of its discretionary nature. Mr Secretary of State, would you be in favour of a legislative amendment allowing the systematic granting of a derived right of residence to the parents of children recognized as refugees on the basis of the maintenance of the family unit? My second question concerns the 9bis recognition figures of recent years. I would fully understand that you would reply in writing, since I submitted it late.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic366x.u33	Mr President, Mr Moutquin, thank you for this rather important issue. I will answer you in French and not Turkish. I share your concern for the protection of girls and women who are at risk of or have undergone genital mutilation. If the parents themselves do not meet the conditions of refugee status or subsidiary protection status, they must resort to the regularization procedure. This refusal by the Office of the General Commissioner for Refugees and Stateless Persons (CCRA) was confirmed by the CEC. My office is currently examining the possibilities and the opportunity of another right of residence for parents. I can also confirm to you that, at the moment, applications for regularization of parents are being processed as a matter of priority by the Aliens Office. The Aliens Office has even implemented a procedure with CGRA in order to be able to respond promptly to any 9bis applications submitted by the same authors. On the basis of information provided by CGRA, after each recognition of a child on the basis of a risk of female genital mutilation, the Aliens Office checks whether the child's parents have used the 9bis procedure or not. If so, the Aliens Office shall take a decision as soon as possible. As for your detailed and encrypted questions, the Administration has worked a long time so that I can answer you today. Thus, 201 cases of children who have been granted refugee status for this reason have been reported by CGRA since the beginning of summer 2020. In addition, 165 parents were potentially affected as some of them had more than one child recognized as a refugee as a result of a risk of female genital mutilation. Of these 165 parents, 52 have not yet applied for a humanitarian or other residence; 43 have already been granted a stay on the basis of another provision, usually in the context of family reunification; 70 of them have applied 9bis and 54 of them have already been regularised; 4 are not regularised and one application has been declared invalid because of a stay already obtained in another context. To date, there have been 11 requests for processing, which will be finalized in the very near future. It is therefore quite possible to identify specific cases and collect statistics in real time without having to open all the requests that come to us. The idea of distinguishing the reasons given in each application for regularization from the time of receipt of the application 9bis would not only require the examination of each application upon arrival, but would require that these reasons be identifiable at first reading, which is far from the case. The applications consist of a set of reasons that can be determined only by a thorough examination of the file. I'm glad we were able to answer your encrypted questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic366x.u34	Toda, Minister. Let's continue in the languages! I want to thank you, because the meeting you had was particularly exciting and interesting. Beyond the ideological differences that exist in this Parliament, I believe that there are inhuman situations which, even beyond different answers on migration issues, must be answered quickly. I count on you and I trust you to bring one. Urgent things can be done; I hear about families, concerned mothers who are unfortunately removed from Fedasil centres when the procedure is followed. There may be something to do at this level, time to fill a legal vacuum. I still have a question. It is not up to me to ask you because there is independence from the CGRA. But why did CGRA suddenly review its positions on these cases? Why, while the CGRA is an independent agency, have families that were previously recognized and whose little girls were protected by having their families and their mothers near them suddenly lost their right? Why was it no longer granted? It's worth thinking about later. Thank you very much, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic366x.u35	Mr President, I am surprised that figures are now being given. We have also requested figures on infections in closed and open centres, but we have been asked to submit a written question to which we have still not received an answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic366x.u36	Mr President, I do not go into what color I like best, or which politician I like best. Certain figures are simply hard to figure out. In fact, in this committee, I have already given a number of numerical answers, for which I could have perfectly referred to a written question. If those answers are available, they will also be given. If that is not the case, I cannot put pressure on my services to find a quick answer to questions. We are now also working on a digitisation project, and you are partly asking a question about this. I would also have liked to have become Secretary of State of a department in which in the past I had invested in digitalisation. However, that is not the case, so we have to work in a different way today. In spite of the difficulties, our services are still trying to provide answers as quickly as possible. I am glad that I can do that, and I can only promise you that as long as digitalisation is not yet complete, you will also receive an answer immediately when you ask a question that we have the answers right away.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic366x.u37	Those facts really contradict that. The question of the number of covid contaminations in the centres was raised on 15 November. As a trade minister, aren't you aware of those numbers? I assume you'll follow that. You put it all on your services if you cannot answer. There have been questions with very simple figures, on which you simply refuse to answer in a pertinent way and each time in principle refers to a written question. If there is a real technical, numerical question from your purple-green majority, you can suddenly magicalize all the figures out of your hat. You're gonna fall apart here, aren't you?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic366x.u38	We are not having a secondary debate on whether or not to answer numerical questions. Let us, above all, listen to the answer to the question you have put, about the European relay money for asylum and migration.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic366x.u39	Mrs Van Camp, the federal agreement that was reached indeed includes the digitisation of public services. In this context, the project Digitalisation of the management processes in Asylum and Migration was selected. This project mainly concerns the need to put a digital backbone through the chain that allows further integration of all relevant services and external partners and also allows for better capture of existing information flows. A digitised return system will also be deployed. The further development of the project is currently taking place in order to ensure maximum efficiency and fitability in the broader plan. Of course, the project will also be the subject of consultation with the European Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic366x.u40	Mr Secretary of State, I must admit that I am absolutely not a specialist in this, but is it correct that you have only raised the relay money for a digitization project? After all, I thought your answer was a little weird. You refer to a digitization project that you will sign up for, but is that the only project for which you have re-launched for your department?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic366x.u41	No, there's not gonna be an additional answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic366x.u42	Mrs. Safai apologized.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic366x.u43	Mr President, Secretary of State, since the end of last week the Begijnhof church has been occupied by sans papers. Their situation is one of total despair. However, they are convinced that a political solution is possible. I went there on Tuesday and talked to some of them, including Farida. She is 51 years old and born in Belgium, but she has no papers. In order to survive, she has been doing housework for several months for a family of top officials of the European Commission, for which she is paid a few euros per hour. Officially she should leave the country, but she has nowhere to go, because her only contacts live in Belgium. Or Mehdi, 28 years old and already 11 years old in Belgium. Until the corona crisis he survived by working on 3 to 4 euros per hour. However, this is not just about Farida or Mehdi. The people who are now sleeping in the Beguinage Church are all in such a difficult situation. That is why it is also striking that you label this action as blackmail and ignore the painful reality that it is now. It is the very last resort for them to survive, and it is an expression of their total powerlessness. Mr Secretary of State, I have the following questions. Do you think that this situation is acceptable on a human level? Will you answer their call and listen to their stories on the spot? Do you not think that it is time for a clear law with objective criteria and for an independent committee to assess each individual dossier?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic366x.u44	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, my question is on the same subject, but it has a very different approach. Have you actually said that you will not be blackmailed and that you will not carry out regularizations? You said there would be no collective regulation, but I would like to know if none of the occupying forces will be regularized? What are the trajectories of the people who occupy the church? You're also at least betting on forced return. Does this mean that a voluntary return coaching process has been started for all those people? How many people have you been able to convince to return voluntarily? What are the costs of this coaching process? How many people have returned voluntarily through coaching over the past few months? I have already asked a lot of questions about this, but I have not yet received a single specific figure. Has anyone actually returned voluntarily?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic366x.u45	Mr President, Mrs Daems and Mrs Van Camp, thank you for your questions, which do indeed have a different approach. I have already expressed my opinion on the regularisations several times in Parliament and publicly. I don't mind doing that again. There will be no collective regulation. That's not in the coalition agreement. I'm not gonna let you pressure me to do that all of a sudden. That doesn't mean nobody's getting regularized. Everyone has the possibility and the right to apply for regularisation. Besides, the number of regularisations in the previous period was much higher than in the previous period. That might also be a nice figure to take into account in the further approach to the theme. The applications are therefore examined on an individual basis, on a case-by-case basis. Therefore, no criteria for regularisation will be included in the law. I am also aware of the DéFI bill, but I am not in favour of it. You have already read this in my opinion, which I delivered to your Committee on Home Affairs. Of course, I am aware of the situation in the Beguinage Church and I realise that the situation there is difficult. I thought it was important to communicate about it publicly and to make clear what expectations people may have. Nor will I generally regularize the people who are staying there. However, I am prepared to consult with everyone in a respectful way. That is also the way in which this government wishes to function: listen to everyone who has a message, based on mutual respect. I have also had contacts with some of the Members of Sans Papers myself or with my advisers. I keep explaining the government's position and communicating honestly about what people may or may not expect. The latter is also a personal concern. People who decide to sit in a church usually do so in despair, with courage sunk in their shoes. They think that such an action will enable them to achieve a result. That's why it's important that they know what they're up to. As Mrs Daems pointed out: if these people are told that there is no future for them here, that they are not entitled to international protection and if they cannot apply for individual regularisation, then the answer is known. It makes little sense to say anything other than the clarity that needs to be provided. I would also like to say that people without documents have a number of, although limited, rights in our country. One of these rights is access to urgent medical care. In this context, I have read things that I would like to correct. The right to urgent medical care exists, and this is important in this situation. However, when all possible procedures are exhausted, the future of those people is not in our country. As you know, I want to make a great deal of effort on voluntary return, and that is also a possibility in this situation. Fedasil is working on a voluntary return in several ways. For example, Fedasil's outreach teams are currently mainly focused on transit migrants, and this will be further expanded in the future. I will therefore also focus on strengthening the staffing of this service. In addition to that team, there are also the Fedasil return desks and the return guidance in the reception centres. So the coaching of people towards voluntary return is indeed there. In 2020, 1,956 people returned voluntarily. I would like to repeat the figures on voluntary and forced return. In some years, one figure is higher than the other, but in the last few decades, the number of people has always fluctuated around ten thousand who have returned either voluntarily or forced. It is not possible to outline the cost picture of this because different services are involved. But the voluntary return is clearly much cheaper than the forced return. I would like to refer to the Bossuyt committee, which has calculated the cost. For the forced return that commission came in 2018 to 11,800 euros; for the volunteer returner it came in 1.653 euros.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic366x.u46	Mr Secretary of State, I will return to my first question. Is this situation acceptable in human terms? That's what this is about. These people are left to their own devices, and that is unacceptable. I would also remind you of the ambition in your policy statement concerning pilot projects in response to an illegal stay. You said that you want to provide a framework and intensive guidance to find a solution with the person concerned. You want to start a humanitarian process that is moving towards a sustainable solution. However, your attitude on this issue is in stark contrast to the words in your policy paper. If you really mean what you have written and said, come and listen to what these people have to say. Be open to their problems. It is punishment that you speak of blackmail, without knowing the story of these people and without knowing how these people live. Those concerned, who now reside in the Beguinage Church, are people who have a place to live and work. It is people who have been contributing to our economy for many years, albeit without rights and without being rewarded for it. It is unacceptable that we should turn our backs on them. They deserve better. Finally, I regret that you are not in favour of a fair, objective and independent procedure. We do believe in this and will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic366x.u47	What a weird vision I hear here. I normally have to reply to what the Secretary of State has said, but first I want to replicate the words of the previous speaker. Mrs Daems, I hear you pleading for regularisation for people who do not have a right of residence, knowing that they take the place of real refugees. I really don't understand that, and I never will. Mr Secretary of State, it is in itself a good signal that you have indicated that there will be no collective regulation. However, I can already hear you back and say that you will need to look at individual regularizations. You can also not give figures of the number of people for whom a route has already started. You can give even fewer figures of the number of people who have already returned. I can freely translate your words by stating that none of the persons concerned has been returned and that they are still illegally staying on the territory. That is a failed policy, which I do not support at all. I would have expected a much clearer signal on the matter. People without a right of residence must be returned, especially when they oppose and come here to blackmail us in such a way.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic366x.u48	Mr President, we should not turn it into a debate, but it is a socially important issue. Mrs Daems, I would like to let you know that I understand the humanitarian question and response. However, the question is how to enter into a dialogue with the political level. In that respect, I can only be clear, without wanting to sound heartless. If, however, a person thinks he can be trapped in a church or sit on the ground, wait there and exclaim that he or she should be listened to or that it is otherwise nothing, then he or she does not act properly. My cabinet has already had talks with representatives. I am open to that, there is no problem in starting the conversation, but I have a problem with the occupation and the call that came after to occupy as many philosophical spaces as possible, such as churches and mosques, has actually frustrated me even more. What's positive about that? How can the debate on this, which is not always simple, be improved by calling on people to occupy seats, no matter how difficult the situation of those people can be? That makes little sense, and it really doesn't help the debate. Mrs Van Camp, I am always open to written questions about the number of individual regularisations. I will be delighted to give you the figures for the period-De Block, -Francken and -Mahdi.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic366x.u49	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for the additional clarification. The fact that these people are now in the Beguinage Church simply demonstrates their desperation. They do that because they didn't feel heard in the past. However, you do want to talk to those people, and that is a positive thing. I hope you will actually do it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic366x.u50	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, during the discussion of your general policy note, you stated your intention to conduct an audit - both at organisational level and with regard to the quality of procedures - of the institutions under your supervision in the field of asylum and migration. Such an initiative is obviously to be welcomed, since it carries the promise of a learning administration, capable of a critical look at its functioning and thus to improve... forgiveness, to always improve for the benefit of users and society in general. Secretary of State, can you tell us where you are in the process of launching this process? Will the audit be carried out by internal or external bodies, public or private? Do you already have a timetable for the regulation... pardon, for the implementation, of this audit? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic366x.u51	Mr President, Mr Rigot, thank you for your question and thank you for taking your words. Me, sometimes and very often even when I speak in French, I shoot at a word. When I hear a francophone MP speak, I always wonder why he does it without fail, and not me. It's proof that we're all human, and I'm glad. As you said very precisely, it is one of my priorities and also of the government to carry out this audit of asylum and migration services in order to achieve an even more efficient system. I always said I wanted to get to it quickly. For now, we are preparing this audit. We have already had several discussions, including with the various asylum and migration services, which must be heard in advance. It is important to realize that an audit is not limited to interviewing services. Its purpose is to make these services even more effective, to allow them to work in cascades and to ensure that each strengthens the other. We opted for an external audit. Therefore, we are going to have to go through an invitation to tender, as it should be. In order to ensure the optimal start-up and conduct of the audit, we have decided to work with a steering committee and a drafting committee, which will be composed of members of my firm as well as the various departments. We intend to hold a meeting very soon, with the items on the agenda being the formulation of specific questions for research and the timing of the call for tenders. I hope to be able to give you a specific date soon. In any case, I welcome the availability of services to carry out this audit work and to strengthen the administration of the Asylum and Migration - all together, as it should be.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic366x.u52	Unfortunately, my Dutch is not as good as your French, Mr Secretary of State, but I am learning because that is proof of respect. You have such great respect for us. Thank you for that. I'll continue in French. I just want to say that I am delighted to see this audit move forward, because it is the first stone to the building of an evolution of how we operate. As I said earlier, it is essential to be able to take stock of the situation, to establish a vision of how we operate. This does not mean that our operation is not good. It is proof of maturity to do so. I very much hope that we will have the maturity to do so, not in a nominal manner, as was the case somewhat in the Bossuyt report, but with the ability to ask others to also devote themselves to auditing and to bring an external vision. It would also be good to call on beneficiaries and associations, so to open the field of analysis absolutely to be better tomorrow, even more fair, and more respectful of all beneficiaries than we are today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic366x.u53	Your Dutch wasn't bad.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic366x.u54	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic366x.u55	Mr Secretary of State, in 2019 the degree of protection of Salvadorans was still 90%, but last year it was only 10%. It would be thought that the situation there would be greatly improved. That is also what you indicated in the first charter flight you managed to organise in the context of voluntary return. The reason Salvadorans were protected was the widespread and intense gang violence. Today, however, these gangs are still active at 94% of Salvadoran territory. That does not seem to be a fundamental change in the situation at all. Meanwhile, there are voices in our country telling a different story. Jorge's story that was recorded in MO Magazine speaks volumes about this. Jorge had applied for asylum in Belgium after fleeing the years of terror of the MS-13 gang. The Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless (CGVS) has described his story as an economic problem, but he himself indicates that this is not true and he had the impression that the person interviewing him had insufficient knowledge of the situation in El Salvador. Lawyer Loobuyck confirms that in the same article: "If you compare the different negative opinions, there is an apparent lack of coherence in the criteria for approval or rejection. Sometimes the assessment appears to be based on a gut feeling rather than a thorough examination and a coherent assessment framework. Questions are also asked about the objectivity and expertise with which the interview is conducted at the CGVS. For example, according to some old-timers, a number of protection officers would not have received specific training for their interviews with asylum seekers from El Salvador. All these testimonies show that the CGVS is not working as it should. That's why I'm asking you the following questions. What information do you base yourself on to say that the security situation in El Salvador has improved? How is it possible that several bodies point to a lack of functioning of the CGVS? What's your reaction to this? Will you discuss this with the Commissioner-General?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic366x.u56	Mrs Daems, I am glad to be able to answer your question, because it has already happened a few times that I had to leave the committee at the time of your turn. I don't want you to see ghosts. So it is certainly not a conscious strategy. The assessment and examination of applications for international protection is the responsibility of independent bodies, namely the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless (CGVS) and the Council for Foreign Affairs. It is not up to the government or me to express a position or to evaluate the handling of certain dossiers by those independent bodies. Fortunately, politics doesn't intervene in this. The CGVS has developed a comprehensive system for collecting information in order to best assess the situation in the countries of origin. Every request is assessed individually and thoroughly, I would like to emphasise that. It is also important that there is a possibility of appeal to the Council for Foreigner's Disputes under full jurisdiction. I can't go into personal files or the names that have fallen here. I fully support our approach, namely that the CGVS can, in all neutrality, judge a particular issue without political interference. That would not be a good thing for the people who are looking for international protection.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic366x.u57	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, for the record, I do not think you should always leave the Chamber before you answer my questions. You do express your confidence in the services of the CGVS, but if different sources point to the same problem, I think that is sufficient indication and we need to address that problem. We'll keep following up on this.
