ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic381x.u1	Mrs Farih is sorry. Mrs Depoorter has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic381x.u2	Mr President, what is the state of the art with regard to CFTR modulators? We had a debate on this a few weeks ago. You indicated that there were conversations with the Vertex company. Meanwhile, articles have appeared in the press in which patients testify that there is a need for a refund for those modulators. I also asked you two weeks ago to review the reimbursement of the clusters. I would like to come back to that, because at the moment there are conversations with Orkambi and Symkevi, but as we heard yesterday, Kaftrio is in the pipeline and that is a combination of the different CFTR modulators. What's the status? Are there any evolutions towards cluster refund for 1,300 muco patients pulling the alarm bell?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic381x.u3	Minister, about EUR 170,000 for a treatment, that is the very high price Vertex is asking for. We do not know what the production price is. We do know that Vertex's turnover and profit figure by the CFTR modulator have risen enormously in recent years on the stock market. We see that it is available in Belgium for certain patients. Apparently it's very efficient, because it really changes their lives. Of course, it only makes it more scandalous that people dare to ask such a high price for it, because it is about life and death in this case. Minister, what progress has been made on the possible reimbursement? In the meantime, these medicines will be refunded abroad and not in Belgium. Where's the shoe wringing? How come there is still no refund in Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic381x.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, since this is a topical debate, the other groups can ask to speak now or during the reply, but I do not see any candidates immediately.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic381x.u5	Madam President, Mrs Merckx, there is indeed a compassionate use programme for Kaftrio for patients aged 12 years and older. In order to know whether a patient can switch from Orkambi to Kaftrio, it should be checked that the patient meets the eligibility criteria, as is the case for each compassionate use program. That's being looked at on an individual basis. You will notice that there are many similarities between the eligibility criteria for the Kaftrio programme and the Orkambi programme. However, their analysis must be carried out by the competent doctors and evaluators. So I cannot comment on that. The duration of a compassionate use or medical emergency program shall be determined in each programme separately. For the compassionate-use programme for Kaftrio, it is stipulated that it runs until the decision on reimbursement is taken, regardless of what the decision will be, reimbursement or not. The latest review of the current Orkambi programme reported that on 13 March 2020 five patients were on treatment. For the compassionate-use programs with Kaftrio we have no data, as they have not been evaluated in the meantime. The FAGG does not have access to the names of the patients included in both programmes. It cannot therefore make the link between both programs as long as they are running. The FAGG cannot assess the situation after the end of the programmes. As regards your question on the so-called negotiations for Kaftrio, I can answer you that I checked with the RIZIV. The Vertex company has not yet submitted a fee file. There are therefore no pending dossiers and certainly no negotiations. We have no idea when the company will submit its dossier for Kaftrio to the Committee on Medication Medicines (CTG), despite the fact that this is already possible for a long time and my administration has already urged the company to do so. For each medicinal product, an application may be submitted as soon as the company has received the approval of the European Medicines Agency (EMA). On 26 June 2020, Kaftrio received a favourable opinion from the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use and the adoption of the EEA on 21 August 2020. According to our Belgian procedure, the company could have applied several months ago. So I cannot tell you why Vertex has not yet applied in Belgium. The reimbursement for the medicines Orkambi, Symkevi and Kalydeco are ongoing and are in the final phase. As a result, I will be able to decide on the refund in the near future. Once the procedure has been completed, you will be able to review the CTG reports and read its evaluation, both on the therapeutic added value and on the other criteria, such as the budgetary impact and the importance of the speciality in medical practice. So we are talking about price negotiations. Agreements for medicinal products are used to address scientific and/or budgetary uncertainties and/or problems of some new treatment options at the time they request reimbursement. Large therapeutic uncertainty is often reported by the CTG. Files often contain promising, but immature data by early submission to the EVA, with, for example, only phase 2 study results. Refund may be accompanied by significant budgetary uncertainties, for example by a very high patient-to-patient treatment cost, or a high overall impact due to the fact that the target population is very broad and difficult to define. In order not to deny patients access to these new, sometimes promising treatments, and to give the pharmaceutical company the opportunity to demonstrate the value of the medicine in a reallife setting, these treatments can be temporarily reimbursed under certain conditions by agreement. These conditions are usually twofold. On the one hand, the company is asked to collect additional information and evidence on specific uncertainties during the temporary reimbursement. On the other hand, the company takes responsibility for the uncertainties and risks associated with the reimbursement during the temporary reimbursement. In practice, this means that a budgetary compensation scheme is included in the agreement. As a result, the risks are shared by health insurance and the company. The company collects all the data requested and processes them into an evaluation report, which is thoroughly evaluated at the end of the agreement. Taking into account the data provided and the probative value of that data, it will be evaluated whether an extension of the agreement or a re-evaluation by the CTG is appropriate. The CTG and I strive for a definitive and transparent inclusion on the list of refundable proprietary medicinal products. That's the preferred scenario that we're aiming for in every file. But often following a negotiation process is the only way to make medicines accessible to the patient and control the budget. You know that we want to reform this procedure within the framework of the government agreement. Of course, it is my wish, and from your questions I conclude that it is also yours, to make good therapies with real added value as accessible as possible to everyone. You rightly say that the cost of Orkambi is very expensive, like many other therapies on the market. We want to go to the limit of our ability to make these medicines available to patients, but we want to do so for a proper fee. This also applies to all medicinal products for which a fee is claimed. That must therefore be done in a sustainable way. This means that we must use the budget carefully. There is certainly a huge challenge in this area at Belgian and European level.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic381x.u6	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Actually, it's a mess. It is true that the system of compassionate use exists, but it does not reach a large number of patients, or at least in a sustainable way, which is your goal, as you yourself indicate. Especially in the case of muco-drugs, we must bear in mind that it is very often young adults who can still have an active life ahead of them. We must therefore take this into account in the pharmacodynamic analysis we are carrying out. The fact that our country remains a black spot for Orkambi in Europe raises questions. We are lagging behind in this respect in relation to other countries. It is not the first time that this problem has been raised in this committee. You are also talking about the fact that no application has been made for Kaftrio. I drew your attention to the clusters in a previous meeting on this issue, and I do so again. We do the same for cancer treatments. We make appointments with a company and see if we can give a refund for a number of patients with a CAB for a particular treatment. Since these are the same molecules that are administered in other combinations, I think this is appropriate. We can draw on the expertise that the doctors of the Muco association have built up. They have even indicated to the CTG that they are willing to work out a pay for performance and to then lay down very clear scientific criteria for the reimbursement of those medicines. You refer to the early temporary retirement period that can be followed, but you also know that this application was made for very few medicines because it does not appear to be optimal. It has existed for a long time, yet there are few companies that go along with it. Perhaps you could look into this thoroughly and see if we can work in a more efficient way in the future and treat more patients in this way. As you yourself have said, it cannot be the intention of the State to be left behind in these matters. I think we can add a tooth to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic381x.u7	Minister, sometimes secret negotiations take place effectively. I do not agree with you when you say that this keeps the budget under control. Mrs. De Block is here. I think that the budget has just been derailed, among other things, by these negotiations and, above all, because it certainly cannot be applied to many products which have already proved their worth and on which there is no longer any therapeutic uncertainty. After your explanation I still do not understand why, for example, Orkambi and Symkevi are still not accessible to patients in Belgium, except in the special programs of compassionate use. In 2016, a dossier was submitted for Orkambi for children up to 12 years of age and in 2018 for Symkevi for patients over 6 years of age. Of course, for a child born with cystic fibrosis, there are few......................................................................................................................................................................................... I did not actually receive an answer to my question today on 23 February, except that something might soon come out of the bus, as you said on 5 January. Why does it take four or five years to make an appointment and conclude an article 81 contract? That is still not clear to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic381x.u8	Do other groups wish to add something in the context of this topical and urgent debate?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic381x.u9	Madam President, Minister, the Medical Accidents Fund was established in 2010 to propose a simpler administrative procedure than a judicial procedure for patients seeking compensation following a medical accident. According to a report sent to Parliament last year by the Court of Auditors, the Medical Accident Fund has not yet achieved its objective of making procedures simpler, faster and cost-effective for patients suffering damage as a result of the provision of health care. According to the Court of Auditors, currently 8 % of the cases processed are considered to be well-founded and potentially compensable by the Fund. The number of applications is also relatively low (one in ten victims) and the use of the Fund has declined in recent years. Minister, have you read this report? What is your opinion on this? How do you intend to make procedures for patients more efficient and faster?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic381x.u10	Minister, the Medical Accidents Fund is not new in our debates either. Let me give you an example from my mailbox. This is someone who was operated on in 2016, suffered a serious medical injury, filed a complaint and was first heard by the experts after four years. Three months later, he would have been informed that the serious medical injury is being recognised and that compensation is being provided for. But there's still no way to determine that. The victim will therefore have to wait at least five years before an amount is granted. By the way, it has still not been paid out. Minister, what progress have you made with the reform of the FMO? After all, you said at the beginning of November that you consider this reform to be very important. Secondly, will you impose a maximum time limit on the FMO to deal with such problems, including the payout?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic381x.u11	Madam President, Mr Prévot, I have taken note of the Court of Auditors' report on the functioning of the Medical Accidents Fund. It is true that this Fund has accumulated a significant backlog in the processing of cases. This situation is not acceptable. Currently, the procedure with the Fund is free of charge for the patient and relatively simple. But, as you rightly pointed out, it is far from fast. The Court of Auditors has found that only a minority of applicants receive compensation at the end of the procedure from the Fund. The law of 31 March 2010 does not create any obstacle to the submission of an application since registered mail is sufficient, but it is very strict when it comes to paying compensation. In general terms, the Fund can only compensate if the level of seriousness prescribed by law is reached and if it is a liability or a medical accident without liability. A medical accident without liability is an accident linked to a health care provision which does not involve the liability of a healthcare provider, which does not result from the patient's condition and which causes abnormal damage to the patient. According to the law, this damage is abnormal when it should not have occurred, given the current state of science, the patient's condition and its objectively foreseeable evolution. Therapeutic failure and error of diagnosis without fault do not constitute a medical accident without responsibility. It cannot therefore be said that the Medical Accidents Fund can compensate for any damage resulting from health care. Nevertheless, the current situation of the Fund raises many questions. Mrs Depoorter, that brings me to your more precise question. I'll be in touch with the administration about that. At the beginning of December I met on this subject, including in January and February, and there will be a number of meetings. I hope to have a full plan of action for the Fund in March. My collaborators and the Fund's management committee are finely coordinating this so that we, the minister responsible and the management of the Fund, understand each other well, and we can be sure that what I present can be found credible and serious in view of the existing problems. You also ask a question about the payout. If it turns out that applicants are entitled to compensation, it must of course be paid as soon as possible. This is a time-consuming process, because the calculation of compensation requires the collection and analysis of evidence. The law provides for compensation to be paid in concrete terms, as in common law. After the collection and analysis of the documents, the Fund makes an initial proposal. Following comments from those concerned, the Fund shall make a final proposal. If the Fund reimburses in the event of a medical accident in which the fund held a liability and the degree of severity was achieved, then there is a further three months in which the liable person is given the opportunity to compensate for the damage. Only after refusal of compensation by the liable and/or its insurers will the Fund provide for compensation. I'll give you that as a reminder. I agree that every effort must be made to help the victims as quickly as possible. Now, of course, the Fund is not the only one involved. Except internally with the Fund, there is a lot of time between requesting and receiving documents, planning and the development of an expertise. Speed is therefore also a criterion of quality for me. The plan of action I have in mind must be able to bring about a real acceleration, which will also enable the delay to be eliminated sufficiently quickly, of course with respect for the position of all parties. You have asked questions about this several times. I hope that in March I will not only have a final action plan, which is fully coordinated, but that I will also be able to communicate it. It is an action plan to improve the current situation. This is certainly not the end of the debate on how such a fund should operate in principle and what kind of legislation is needed. I think it is important that I can create a short-term perspective for dealing with the pending dossiers. That seems essential to me. So this is a matter of great concern to me, Mr. Prévot. I hope to be able to present to you in March an action plan on the Fund, because this situation cannot really last any longer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic381x.u12	Minister, thank you for your response, which provided us with a snapshot of the procedures. As you said, the procedure is free and relatively simple, but its application is unfortunately neither quick nor effective. However, I note your encouraging willingness to improve the system. I hear that you, your staff and the Fund's officials are discussing this. I am also looking forward to the month of March for the tabling and submission of a final action plan to improve the situation. The debate is continuing. I hope that it will succeed very soon, so that you can come and present the plan to us. In any case, I understood that your will was present and I thank you for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic381x.u13	It's a good thing there's a plan coming up in March. I am absolutely pleased about that. Hopefully, therefore, we will be able to discuss the content in depth. There are cases that are lagging behind. Files dealt with have a lead time of five years, after which payments have yet to be made. That cannot be the intention of the Medical Accidents Fund. It was intended to be available to patients more quickly, efficiently and at a lower cost. A lead time of five years is far too long for a victim of such a medical accident. Please bear that in mind. I look forward to the debates in March.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic381x.u14	Minister, VIDIS is an important digitization project as it allows for the sharing of patient drug treatment data. It aims to promote the exchange of data on medicines taken by patients between pharmacists and other care providers in order to improve the patient's accountability or follow-up of treatment. Yet today, some doctors are concerned, according to the Belgian Association of Medical Trade Unions (ABSyM). ABSyM denounces the fact that the indications for which drugs are prescribed will appear in VIDIS, which will centralize all health data: diagnosis and therapies. According to the ABSyM, this could create risks of intrusion and this sensitive information could one day be sold to commercial firms. Minister, where is VIDIS today? How will this database be managed? When do you think it will be operational? What beacons will be put in place to avoid any drifts in the use of data? What is your opinion on the criticisms made by ABSyM?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic381x.u15	The VIDIS (Virtual Integrated Drug Information System) project aims to organize and stimulate the sharing of data and information between the actors in outpatient care, the outpatient sector and the hospital environment, and with and by the patient and his/her entourage, on all drug treatment by integrating the available data into existing data sharing systems and by better orchestrating drug-related processes. The VIDIS application, which visualizes the view of the medication dossier, collects data on medicines without saving them. This means that these data are stored at the place of origin (the authentic source). VIDIS does not save this data in an additional database. To view them, the e-Health access matrix is respected. These principles have been validated by Deloitte's external audit firm. A first release of the web ab VIDIS integrates the medication scheme with Vitalink source. This version is already available to the patient. A second release scheduled for March of this year will also post journal notes (source of the new Vitalink) and, in addition, the patient will also be accessible to the provider indicated in the access matrix. The third release scheduled for June of this year incorporates electronic requirements and the source is RECEEP and the electronic prescription. We are also planning a new release in the fall of this year. It also aims to integrate the medication scheme with the Wallon Health Network, Abrumet and the SAM, the authentic source of the medicine. The fear that VIDIS will save data in a database is therefore not justified. There is no central database. VIDIS does not record data in its own database. The databases that are called and viewed are all authentic sources. Today, the indication is already an optional field to fill in in the medication scheme. VIDIS does nothing but visualize what already exists today. The principle is that it is the responsibility of each individual physician to fill in this field. The VIDIS project therefore does not impose anything and follows the existing rules of the access matrix. Existing scientific research shows that the indication is an important data with a high added value on health care if it is shared among providers and provided that they have a therapeutic relationship with the patient. Scientifically, the desired situation is that the "indication" field is shared among all providers involved in the continuous care of the same patient. We therefore invite health care providers to reach a consensus in appropriate forums: on whether it is optional or mandatory to complete an indication with each line of medication in the medication regimen and/or to determine the rules on when it should be mandatory; on who, which provider has the right to view the indication and who or which provider does not. I hope that my answer will not only inform you but also reassure you and dispel your fears.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic381x.u16	Minister, thank you for your answer, which reassures me indeed. My question was divided into two parts, to which you answered scrupulously. First of all, with regard to the agenda for the next steps of VIDIS, I thank you for providing us with a snapshot of the situation. Secondly, with regard to the protection and non-use of data, I am grateful to you for your reassuring speech. Finally, I understood that the access matrix was respected and that the principles had been validated by Deloitte. Furthermore, there is no principle of data backup by VIDIS. Therefore, the fears expressed by ABSyM are not well founded, and I can only welcome them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic381x.u17	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Jadin's 55013566C lapses, since Mrs Jadin is not here and we have not heard from her. Debates of the European Parliament 55013662C and Question No 55013663C by Mrs Fonck will be converted into written questions. Debates of the European Parliament 55013681C by Mrs Rohonyi lapses, since Mrs Rohonyi is not here and we have not heard from her. Debates of the European Parliament 55013688C by Mrs Creemers is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic381x.u18	Madam President, Minister, in spring 2020 the number of organ transplants had fallen dramatically. There are probably several reasons for this, such as the available number of appropriate donor bodies and the postponement of non-covid care. What is the impact on the number of transplants from living donors, by making a comparison between 2019 and 2020? What is the impact on the number of post-mortem transplants, by also making a comparison between 2019 and 2020? In which type of organs is the greatest impact? Can you explain to what extent the corona crisis has increased the waiting lists? If there is indeed an impact, do you intend to work towards greater awareness of organ donation? If so, in what way?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic381x.u19	Mrs Gijbels, it is not the first time you have asked a question about this. I got a very documented answer with all sorts of numbers and graphs. I suggest I give you that on paper. I can't tell you that, of course. I'll tell you the essence. In terms of impact, there is a total decrease of 20% for livers and kidneys of living donors. During the two covid peaks, all programs of donations were suspended by life. Unfortunately, that is quite visible on the graphs. In all domains there is a decrease in post-mortem transplantation between 2019 and 2020. In kidneys, it's a fall from 389 to 326. In livers, this goes from 262 to 214. Lung transplants went from 119 to 113. Heart transplants decreased from 84 to 54. Those are remarkable figures, aren't they? We must ask ourselves what is happening there and what the consequences are. The figures I gave show that the greatest impact on heart transplants was 36%, followed by liver 18%, lungs 18%, and kidneys 16%. It has been a combination of concerns about infections and limiting the occupation of intensive concerns. Luckily, urgent transplants have continued. The waiting list has remained stable. In December 2019 there were 1,364 people on the waiting list and in December 2020 there were 1,371. We definitely need to sensitize. This year an extensive awareness campaign will be organised. The campaign will focus on citizens, general practitioners, public pharmacies and municipal authorities. A commercial will also be made which will be widely distributed through social media.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic381x.u20	Thank you. I'm looking forward to the numbers. It's a very clear answer. You also see the importance of sensitizing. We must be absolutely committed to this, especially if it turns out that these figures have now fallen somewhat.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic381x.u21	Mrs Sneppe, we come to your question No. 55013712C on "CVS/ME'.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic381x.u22	Madam President, Mrs Sneppe, I do not have an answer to your question at the moment. I have called for an answer to be drawn up within two weeks. You can postpone your question or have it converted into a written question, as you prefer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic381x.u23	Then my question may be converted into a written question so that I can get an answer more quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic381x.u24	Minister, your policy statement states that you want to rely on the principles of evidence-based medicine in particular: what is demonstrably effective and scientifically proven will be repaid more quickly. People with a congenital visual impairment ring the bell about the very expensive medication that offers them more quality of life. The Luxturna group was recently established, which groups patients with the same condition. From a patient angle, developments are closely monitored. Luxturna, a vaccine containing copies of the gene RPE65 and already being administered to a number of patients in a few countries, stabilises or even improves the patient's vision. In other words, it has been scientifically proven that the vaccine works and that the quality of life of patients is greatly improved. However, as with other rare diseases, this is a very expensive medicine and without public support such a vaccine is not available to patients. Firstly, do you have knowledge of the Luxturna group and the problem? Secondly, what is your view on the problem? Third, are you willing to talk to the patient group? Fourthly, are you willing to talk to the pharmaceutical companies to make a pay-for-performance appointment for the medicine?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic381x.u25	The problem of hereditary retinal dystrophy is rare, but indeed very worrying for patients suffering from it. The first symptoms occur at a very young age in babies. You're gonna get an irreversible progressive loss of vision. That leads to blindness at a young age. Obviously, this has a terrible impact on the quality of life of people affected by it. There is currently no treatment for that condition. The guidance of patients has so far been practically focused, by teaching them to deal with the progressive loss of vision. Patients with bi-allergic RPE65 mutations form a subgroup. Luxturna is the first and only treatment option registered for the treatment of patients with these mutations and is also, for the time being, the only registered gene therapy in ophthalmology. The current data available on the safety and efficacy of Luxturna cover a total period of 10 years. I do not know that a patient group bears the name of a medicine, but the patient associations for eye diseases are well known to me. The data of all patients treated in Europe should be followed in registers at the request of the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for 15 years. For example, all patients treated with Luxturna follow the same trajectory. An exchange of experiences between them is therefore highly recommended. I'm also really willing to talk to the Luxturna group, if that's what it's asking. I think we can see clearly the need and usefulness of the genetic correction. Gene therapies have a lot of potential, as you say, but the first examples are also very expensive. A pay for performance is one of the possible compensation mechanisms available for such therapies. The repayment procedure for Luxturna is ongoing. Negotiations were launched last year between the company and the responsible working group. They are now in the final phase, so I will be able to decide on the reimbursement of the medicine in the near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic381x.u26	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I'm glad the case is moving forward. In any case, medicines for rare diseases remain a thorny issue. They remain expensive, so something structural has to change there. We also had the discussion just now about the cystic patients. The problem needs to be addressed at source, which means that we have to start talking to the pharmaceutical sector and give clear guidelines. I am glad that the reimbursement procedure is ongoing and that you are talking about a decision in the near future. I can assume that the procedure will then be completed within the week and that you will then come up with positive news. I'll also put you in touch with those responsible for the Luxturna group, so you can make an appointment.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic381x.u27	Mrs Van Camp, my colleague says that an answer will not be available for two weeks. Shall I give you the answer in writing? Are you submitting a written question? Are you postponing your question? I'm open to all options.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic381x.u28	If the answer is available, you can give it to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic381x.u29	In two weeks, that's good.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic381x.u30	Minister, in the Special Committee on COVID-19 the representatives of the medical specialists in training (ASO) spoke. It was an interesting and very interesting hearing. There the proposal was made to set up a working group to deal with the hot issues of sui-generis status, pensions and temporary unemployment and other problems of the ASOs. Such hot irons have been known for longer than they are today. They have been a problem for longer than they are today. Because of the covid crisis, the problems are even more acute. The ASOs have been fully committed in the heat of the battle, but they are often forgotten when it comes to regulation or reform. Are you prepared to address the question of the composition of a working group? Will you take the lead in dealing, if necessary together with other colleagues, with the problems of pensions, of course, in consultation with the representatives of the ASOs? When are you planning a meeting?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic381x.u31	Minister, a great deal of work has already been done to understand how ASOs can step by step get a better statute. So they were asked what rights they wanted to build first. Of course, the covid pandemic has played a special role in this. A survey of the Flemish Association for Arts Specialists in Education (VASO) shows that almost 2 out of 10 doctors-specialists in training are thinking of quitting their training. Not only were working conditions very difficult, but the social status and the training environment also play a role. For example, the time their internships can invest in them is a well-known problem. Furthermore, the dual role of trainers and employers is not evident. After all, it makes it difficult to raise certain problems. Some steps have already been taken during the previous legislature, but there is still work to be done. At present, no minimum basic wage has been set and the number of watchkeeping services required by hospitals is not established. The conditions of employment are also very different according to the internship master. On the one hand, VASO calls for a review of the training so that the roles of the employer and the internship master are separated and, on the other hand, a legal definition of the conditions of employment. Minister, what steps do you intend to take? Is there a concrete timetable? Of course, all this cannot be dealt with all at once and you will also have to consult with your colleagues responsible for Work and Pensions. Can you give me a hint of the veil yet?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic381x.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the problem has already been outlined very well. The problem is not new and has been reinforced by the corona crisis. It is very specific about a sui-generis statute and the 'double cap'. The field of work has changed considerably, while legislation was drafted when sufficient jobs were available and doctors were able to build their own pension during a sufficiently long career. A lot of young doctors-trained specialists are worried today. We really need to do something about that. Moreover, this is reinforced by networking and by the concentration of care, a trend which we all support. For example, I was recently confronted in the hospital where I am active with some files of young people who have ended up in an internship in a smaller department for very specific pathologies. There were some problems due to a lack of objectification. Often, however, the landscape is so small that it lays a claim to the future for many young people. However, it does not always have to be this way. Under subquotas, for example, many candidates have been admitted to training in recent years. However, technological progress means that fewer people are needed, while there is a need for conversion and retraining. In some specializations one does not even get up and one cannot fall back on unemployment. We really need to do something about that. We must also do something about the problem of the double hat. As Minister of Work, I was concerned about this, as was my colleague De Block. I had checks carried out by the Labour Inspectorate at the time. This is not always evident in terms of working conditions. On average, the working time is 48 hours, with a fork of 36 to 60 hours. However, working time must be recorded correctly. But a common complaint is that registration is being made, but that a doctor-specialist in training must continue to work. That is the problem of the 'double hat', which has been in Parliament for a long time and which we must tackle. What are your plans on this? Are you prepared to cooperate with Parliament and ensure that we can move forward quickly? It should also be borne in mind that a scheme may have an impact on social contributions, among other things. An extension of the statute will therefore have consequences. However, it is really time to do something about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic381x.u33	(...) At the National Joint Committee on Medicine-Hospitals there is a working group that consults on the fees, with particular attention to the fees for watchkeeping services and also a model for generic training agreement. The National Joint Committee on Medicine and Hospitals has the power to conclude collective agreements, similar to the more well-known collective agreements. Additional information on the salaries of the doctors-specialists in training was requested from the public authorities to facilitate and objectify the discussions. The doctors-specialists in training are in that working group. I will also closely monitor the dossier and try to facilitate the conclusion of a collective agreement. An official of the FOD WASO is also currently following the work of the committee's working group. In addition, consultations will soon be held with the Minister for Economic Affairs and Labour, Mr Dermagne, on the working conditions of the ASOs. For the improvement of social security protection, please refer to the national agreement of 2021 of the Medicomut approved by the Council of Ministers. The agreement set aside EUR 10 million to improve the social protection of doctors in training, without any reduction in net wages. I'm following that file closely, too. In addition, there is a considerable preparatory work in my administration on the conceptualisation of a quality system for the training of doctors-specialists. The aim is to include a safe training environment for doctors-specialists in training in that system. Following the analyses of my administration, concrete steps will be taken in the future. My administration has already started to create a web page that will gather all the information about the legislation on the doctors-specialists in training. The website will contain neutral information, so that the doctors-specialists in training are made aware of the complex division of competences and so that they know who they can contact. The financing of general practitioners in training has indeed been done for many years through a separate non-profit organisation. In order to eliminate the differences between specialities between general practitioners and other specialities - and between university and non-university hospitals, a reform of the funding system for medical specialists in training has already been initiated by my predecessor. In a first phase, a fee was provided for non-university internships, doctor-specialist since 2016. In the second phase, in addition to non-university internships, university internships have been funded since 2019 for the pedagogical component of the internship. My cabinet and administration will continue to closely support and monitor the initiatives so that concrete steps can be taken to improve the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic381x.u34	Thank you, Minister, for the answer, but I do not know whether the ASOs are happy with that. You say there's a working party working on it, sort of a joint committee. You say the ASOs are represented in that. You'll keep an eye on it. That's all good, but I think it's going too slow. It would have been more pleasant if you had said that you would have grabbed the file with both hands in order to speed it up. After all, it is not a problem of yesterday or today. It's been dragging on for years. I do not understand why the problem is not solved. I hope that the doctors' assistants will be able to count on a speedier handling. The answer you knocked out doesn't tell you that right away. We'll see if we can take our own initiative.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic381x.u35	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. You have said that many first and important steps have already been taken. It is good that a new working group has been set up. Any decision that needs to be taken must be sustainable and financed, but in the long term it must also contribute to a fully-fledged statute for doctors and specialists in training. I think that will certainly motivate young people to choose the profession. I believe that the quality of work, the duration, the conditions in which they work should be regulated in a more uniform way. That could solve some of the problems already. I know it's not an easy assignment, but every step we take is every time good news.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic381x.u36	Minister, I agree with what Mr De Block said. Indeed, a lot has already happened and I am sure that with what is going on in the Medicomut today, there are still some levers to speed things up in motion. I can follow Mr Sneppe: young people have little message about this. They are looking for a new hospital today, falling between different assignments and getting very upset about their status. Anyway, there are some levers on the table. I myself am rather charmed by the financing system of the general practitioners. I am also very much in favour of the good initiatives on the WW7, but we need to go a little further and see how we can make this more objective. Perhaps the EUR 10 million is a start to grab what is in the Medicomut today. I would ask you to follow this very closely, and we will certainly remind you in the coming period of time to take initiatives in this area and make progress, because it has been too long. It's a wonderful profession. The case is now too often translated into the re-evaluation of the nomenclature and high wages of doctors, but there are also a lot of young people who want to do it in a completely different way today. We must not leave them in the cold and we must give them a sustainable future, including in terms of financing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic381x.u37	Mrs Muylle, I have also been familiar with the dossier for a very long time, from the 1980s, also at a very personal level. It is therefore very close to my heart, but it does take some time, because it is served by consultation mills. That does not mean, however, that we must not bring it to a successful conclusion. In the context of the COVID-19 crisis, we have also undertaken special funding and actions for that group, which was also right. We are certainly not where we should be, so if you'd like me to grab it with my two hands, I'll grab it with my two hands. It is a very important issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic381x.u38	Minister, my question concerns the decision of the Colruyt Group to work as a pick-up point for online pharmacies. I am asking myself about the safety of medication policy. I've asked a question about online drugs and the collection of medication from online drugs. Academics have also warned: when one goes on such an online platform, one can order painkillers or nasal sprays as much as one wants. They're very low-threshold. There is no shared pharmaceutical dossier there, and now we are going a step further. People can go to a grocery store to pick up a lot of medication there. Minister, do you agree with this? Are you prepared to take certain dissuasive steps to prevent multiple doses of nasal spray or painkillers or multiple packages from being collected so that health care protection is created?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic381x.u39	Minister, the issue of accessibility of drugs and parapharmaceuticals is essential for health safety. It is also a choice of design of the framework for the delivery of these products and medicines and, consequently, of self-medication. If a personal medication accompanied by its referent pharmacist, without the automatic passage to the general practitioner, is certainly a good thing for many situations, however, it is fundamental to know where drugs and products such as anti-inflammatory and painkillers are placed, because they are not anodizing products. It is therefore a question to see them appear in the retail distribution sector, by parcel. It is known that physicians rely on official pharmacists to protect some patients from the addiction and other excess consumption of certain products that are harmful to health and that can lead to new pathologies. Wider and more extensive access to these products, without any advice - as is the case today in large distribution rays - can undoubtedly create drifts. At the same time, we know how low the level of health literacy in the population is. The latest studies show how urgent it is to improve this competence for everyone and to adapt communication to the use of medicines and parapharmaceuticals. Minister, has a recent study on the consumption of these parapharmaceuticals been conducted? What is the trend? What process is currently in place to ensure the registration of this individual consumption purchased online and on a large area, from pharmacists, the pharmacist referring to the person purchasing it, and the attending physician? Considering the essential role of prevention and first-line advice - and therefore of proximity - played by pharmacists of officials, do you consider it necessary to adapt the legislation that regulates the conditions for the issue and sale of these parapharmaceuticals? What measures have you planned for the year 2021 with regard to health literacy?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic381x.u40	It is true that the Colruyt Group will be a take-out point and no more than that - from the pharmacy that has been notified under the name Newpharma to the Federal Agency for Medicines and Health Products to sell medicines at a distance. The distance selling of medicinal products from a pharmacy is regulated by Article 29 of the Royal Decree of 21 January 2009 on training for pharmacists. It stipulates that the delivery of the medicinal product or medical device ordered must take place from the pharmacy. Delivery is carried out either in the pharmacy or by a courier service recommended by the pharmacists. In the latter case, the medicinal product must be sent in a sealed package bearing the name and address of the patient or the person responsible for the animal. The pharmacist-titularis has an obligation to verify whether the courier service he or she selected is suitable for delivering medicinal products in this case. This also applies to pharmacists with a pharmacy website using bpost, Kiala or other courier services. As far as Mrs Taquin's question is concerned, it is important to distinguish between medicinal products and other products, such as parapharmaceuticals. As soon as a product meets the legal definition of a medicinal product, it must be sold in a pharmacy. Ms. Taquin, you cite examples of painkillers or anti-inflammatory drugs. Parapharmaceuticals are not medicines but may have health or welfare benefits. These products may be sold in pharmacies under certain conditions, in accordance with the ethical rules applicable to official pharmacists. Other products, such as cosmetics or food supplements, can be sold outside pharmacies. Certain categories of medical devices may also be freely purchased and sold throughout the European Union, in accordance with the Community legislation in force, provided that such devices bear the EC mark.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic381x.u41	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I do not, however, have any concerns about the issue. You fall back on European legislation in your reply. That's right. That is the case. Nevertheless, we note that more incidents are recorded every year concerning the excessive use of painkillers. In this respect, the use of non-regulatory painkillers that can be obtained in such online drugs is known. The academic world also points very clearly to the dangers. Therefore, hiding behind European legislation seems somewhat simple to me. That is not a public health policy. If we want to protect our patients effectively, we must ensure that the guidance given to patients is really a guidance to pharmaceutical care. You show that the pharmacist must have confidence in the distributor in the online platform. That's right, of course. In a physical pharmacy, the pharmacist can be assisted by three pharmaceutical-technical assistants. There is also a pharmaceutical file at the pharmacist's office and there is follow-up. The possibilities thus created are not guaranteed at the online Pharmacies nor at the pick-up at any pick-up point. You can talk about food supplements, which can also be dangerous, and about cosmetics. However, for the painkillers and the nasal sprays there is really work to be done. If we want to guide and protect our patients well, we need to develop dissuasive possibilities so that our patients do not poison themselves, which sometimes happens today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic381x.u42	Mr President, Minister, I thank you for the elements you have brought us, but I remain convinced that the necessary work remains to be done without delay. It is really essential, in your task and that of your department, to focus on this issue of the accessibility of these products not subject to the doctor's opinion. The race for profit should not take precedence over the quality of the treatments and the quality of the supervision of the delivery of such products. I know the difference between a drug and parapharmaceuticals, but it would probably be urgent and necessary to analyse what is distributed, especially in parapharmaceuticals, without the advice of a pharmacist. We know that official pharmacies are disappearing. There are still some 30 that have closed their doors recently. Pharmacists still remain professionals, who are trained, who are subject to imperatives to maintain their medicine, and who remain persons of contact, confidence and proximity to citizens, patients and general practitioners who also rely on them with confidence.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic381x.u43	Mr President, Minister, my questions concern the mental well-being of students. This was the subject of positive communication last week, but I continue to worry about the students' mental well-being. We have all experienced it in our own circle: it was a difficult period. Students have barely or no access to the auditoria. Then there was the block period and they were behind their screen again and there were no contacts. We hear from the universities and colleges that there are a lot of needs. Hence my question: what concrete steps can you take in the short term? One of the suggestions I make in my second question is to make more psychologists available quickly to the psychotherapeutic centres of the universities and colleges of applied sciences. That question was examined with the association of psychologists and with the psychiatrists. This is therefore well-founded and also one of the suggestions of the States General on Mental Health Care. We really need to get serious about this in the short term. The budgets are there: we approved EUR 200 million in Parliament last year, and that budget has not yet been updated. That budget is provided for and the needs are there. I know you're consulting with the psychologists to take sustainable steps, but the needs are huge today and we can do something. Are you willing to do that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic381x.u44	Mr President, Mrs Depoorter, one must be blind not to agree with your observation that there has been a great deal of pressure since classes in secondary schools were given half physical and half online and that the colleges and universities have organized distance learning on a large scale for students and students, together with the other covid measures. I believe that this situation also has the effect that the problems of young people, who used to be dealt with in a school context by the college, university or CLB, now remain under the radar and get worse. We do see the consequences of this. I totally agree with you. This is not the subject of your question, but if you were to ask me what is the top priority if we were to think about pandemic policy, this would be to look for solutions to improve the situation of young people, in particular by once again creating more opportunities for traditional contact education in secondary and higher education. However, this can only be done if the evolution of the epidemic and the vaccinations allow it. We cannot vote on this today. That is the great uncertainty we are facing. I think that's a top priority. In the meantime, we do have the findings you're describing. You're right. We have already programmed an important effort by allocating EUR 112 million of the EUR 200 million extra included in the government agreement for the development, in a well-organised and sustainable way, of first-line psychological support. I have consulted the Community ministers on this. That went well and we concluded a protocol agreement on 2 December. We agree on the vision. That's important. Then, at the federal level, I will consult on a transversal agreement committee that we have created specifically to strengthen mental health care. You have described it very kindly and constructively, but it is. We are trying to work out, agree and roll out a good concept in a sustainable way. That does indeed take time. Whatever concerns you, I am, frankly, concerned too, namely that this consultation takes a lot of time. I have already taken a small concrete measure which I do not want to exaggerate. As from 15 February, a budget of EUR 4,731,000 will be available to strengthen the mobile crisis teams that support young people with mental problems. At first sight, that is not a lot of money, but it allows to increase staff investment by 50% and operating resources by 75%. That's gonna be a help. I visited last week in Roeselare WINGG, where this is organized for West Flanders. I have found that the need is high. With this little injection, we're already doing something in the area of mobile crisis teams. You're making an interesting suggestion. This is not a courtesy formula, I will take your suggestion, because I believe that there is a great need and that action is required. I shall, of course, push on to the discussions in the transversal agreement committee, but if we want to do this right, it will unfortunately take time. However, I take your suggestion with me.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic381x.u45	Minister, that is a good thing, but I would like to give you the words of a medical student who shocked me. She said: "We are the forgotten generation in the covid crisis." You mentioned the students, but they were still in physical contact with their classmates. The students at the universities and the colleges had absolutely no such thing. Brilliant students are crashing right now. It can effectively be an underlying condition, but it can also be due to pure loneliness. Not everyone has an ideal home situation, with a lot of contact. I would therefore be very grateful if you would take my suggestion seriously. I was told by the support points that there are 3 to 4 times more applications per month than per year in normal circumstances. I'm sure you've been informed of that. So the problem is urgent. I can only welcome the fact that you are working on a sustainable solution, which is needed, but today there are also needs.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic381x.u46	Minister, this is the question that was not answered in the current day's debate. I hope you have one today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic381x.u47	On the bills?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic381x.u48	Yes, that's it! I will, however, rest her. This is the story of Michel, one of my patients whose story is published in the local newspaper. He was hospitalized at the end of March for serious covid-related symptoms: twenty-five days of intubation, six weeks of intensive care and then revalidation. When he returned home, the first bills were already waiting for him. A first of 700 euros, then another of 1000 euros, for a final total of more than 2000 euros of invoices that he receives, because Michel does not have hospital insurance. He lives on a small pension (+/- 1,400 euros) and pays what he can: one day a hundred euros, another two hundred euros. At the end of September, he already received a letter from a collection office announcing additional costs. On this, Michel contracts a loan to his bank to pay off his debt. First of all, I denounce the fact that Michel entered the hospital with the covid and came out, poorer. This is already unacceptable. Then the hospital sends a collection office with reminder fees etc., while the patient has not yet retouched the mutual the amount to be reimbursed the maximum amount to be billed. Do you think it is normal for a hospital to send reminder letters with additional costs by a collection office in such a short time, and this, in the context of the covid, is an exceptional situation? Finally, in the case of Michel, the maximum amount to be billed is 583 euros. Even that amount is huge for him. He is now afraid to go to the hospital because if he had a refund, he nevertheless had to contract a loan. So he doesn't want to go to the hospital for treatment because of the supplements. There is also a problem related to the ceiling of the maximum to be billed as in the refund of the maximum to be billed. In the case of covid-related hospitalizations, an exceptional situation, should we not ensure that they are better, if not completely, reimbursed by the mutual fund as we proposed in April?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic381x.u49	Mr President, Madam, there is a mediation service in hospitals to which patients can apply in the event of difficulties in paying their bills. You probably know that, but I have to say it again. As regards the maximum amount to be charged, in order to ensure its automatic character, its effective application requires a series of exchanges between mutual societies and different administrations, in order to determine the ceiling applicable to a household and to determine whether this ceiling is reached. These procedures take a certain amount of time which, in the context of a regular evaluation, the various actors try to minimise. Since the end of 2007, as soon as it is established that a beneficiary of the MAF has been hospitalized, his mutuality shall inform the hospital so that the latter shall invoice the mutuality for the entire operation of the insurance, provided that he has been aware of this information no later than the tenth day of the month following the end of the billing period. In addition, INAMI and insurers have been looking for some time at the possibility of the hospital also applying the MAF as soon as the ceiling is reached by the same care given during hospitalization, without waiting for billing. This approach, mentioned in particular by the Observatory for Chronic Diseases at INAMI, is, however, technically impractical in the short term, but is still under study. Finally, I can inform you that the law of 26 June 2020 protects the victims of the pandemic from charging extra fees and from invoicing additional costs, since 11 March 2020. This law was published on 18 January 2021 in the Moniteur belge. The law provides for the prohibition of fee supplements when admission concerns a patient infected or suspected of being infected with the sars-covid-2 virus. In addition, it provides that no additional costs in the form of non-reimbursable benefits may be charged to patients of an epidemic or pandemic or to victims of a disaster or disaster, for which the costs of services are covered by the budget of the financial means referred to in Article 101. In general, various measures have been taken to protect insured persons from the additional costs associated with covid, such as the prohibition of supplements for testing, for protective equipment to be used by care providers, for remote benefits, for benefits granted in intermediate care facilities, for nursing supervision of patients, etc. I hope that these answers to your question about this particular case will be helpful to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic381x.u50	Minister, thank you. First of all, with regard to the fact that hospitals, in the specific case of the covid but also in other cases, send bailiffs and appeal to collection offices, I would have wished to have your point of view. Do you think it's normal not to be able to pay a hospital bill, to end up with increased bills and late interest? I don't think that's normal. I would have expected a more precise point of view from you. Secondly, you did talk about applying the maxima. It's not normal. You said that there were technical reasons why we didn't apply the maximum amount to bill right away, but is it normal, when you are holder of the DKV card or the Ethias card, that you give the card when you arrive at the hospital and never see the bill? You pay the price of your insurance, of course, but when you do not have hospital insurance, you receive the entire invoice at home and in this case with interest on late payment. The bill was very high, even without any extra charge. There was no supplement. It's not allowed for the covid. This is a very long hospitalisation and the bill was therefore very high. As I recall, the amount amounts to 583 euros in the specific case of the patient who has a pension of 1,400 euros per month with which he struggles to pay his bills. It's just a huge amount of money. Today, it still requires a lot of medical care that it postposes because of the moderator ticket and the ceiling of the moderator ticket which is too high. I think this ceiling needs to be lowered. Overall, the hospital bill needs to be better reimbursed. It must be possible to get sick, go to the hospital and not get out poor. Unfortunately, this is not the case today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic381x.u51	My answer may have been a bit technical, but I fully agree with you. For starters, I think a hospital should think about what it does. However, I cannot, of course, comment on a specific case at a distance. It is indeed revolting that people with private supplementary insurance are spared that misery and not other people. At the heart of the coalition agreement, we want to make progress in this area, including by thinking about the MAF, the ceilings of the MAF, the technique of the MAF and other measures to make the invoices affordable. So I agree entirely, but you will understand that I cannot simply bring up an exact file and answer it. Furthermore, I fully agree with everything you say about the social suffering and the social injustice that appears here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic381x.u52	I do not think this is an exact case. Michel is a covidgehospitalized person, but it's not an exact case. There's a lot of them like that. You're welcome to come and consult with me for a day. The number of patients who tell me that they do not want to be hospitalized because they do not have hospitalisation insurance and cannot afford hospitalization is important. I'm really counting on that to be done. I'll come back to it, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic381x.u53	Minister, disciplinary law and order, in particular the lack of transparency and openness of meetings and statements, have long been the subject of debate and have been denounced for years. Moreover, the fact that the prosecution is not informed of a verdict and is not even heard is no longer of this time. Some health professions, such as dentists and physiotherapists, do not have such an order. This has been addressed for several years by the federal ombudsdienst "Requests of the Patient" as it receives many complaints against dentists every year. A lack of a disciplinary organ is thus experienced. What is your opinion on the working methods of the health care professions? Do you think there is a lack of transparency and openness? Is this being discussed or is consultation planned with the health professions? Are the patient organisations also being heard or are there plans to do so? Do you think that orders should be modernised in the long term? Or is there another way of working? Can we consider, for example, a High Council for Deontology, together with an ordinary court with jurisdiction to issue a professional ban if necessary? If so, what steps will you take in this regard? Do you think that for physiotherapists and dentists there should also be disciplinary bodies? Are these professional groups being consulted on this or are you thinking about it?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic381x.u54	Indeed, the way in which the health professions operate can be greatly improved in terms of transparency, openness and the complainant's place in the procedures. The standards have evolved and we need to evolve with them. The fact that only a small part of the health professions, namely doctors and pharmacists, have a deontological body, is, in some sense, a deficiency in the health system. In my opinion, there are different models available to provide all healthcare professions with an ethical body. I am in any case at the disposal of the healthcare professions or patients' organisations which seek to improve the functioning of transparency, openness and the complainant's place in the procedures, or who seek to set up a deontological body for the care professions that do not have one.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic381x.u55	Minister, the Order of Doctors has been thinking for several years about reforming themselves. I suggest that you also make an active contact with yourself to find out how far these plans are going and where there may still be problems. We ourselves have two legislative proposals ready to establish orders for dentists and physiotherapists. These orders must, of course, be shaped in a modern, transparent form. I am therefore looking forward to discussing this with colleagues. I do not know whether we should go to an order or to another disciplinary body. However, there is a real need for a deontological body, which sets out certain rules. For example, the ombudsmen have been calling for fifteen years to work something out for the profession of dentists. It is therefore high time that we finally got to work on this and look at the existing orders to modernise them. I would not necessarily wait for steps taken by the existing orders themselves. I would take an active approach to them to talk about the problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic381x.u56	Mr Minister, on 10 February 2021, Febelco, one of the largest suppliers of medicines to pharmacies, reported that the sale of sleeping drugs increased significantly in 2020. It is both about sleeping drugs with or without prescription. For prescription sleep medication, there is again an increase of about 3.4 % for 2020, although use has stabilised over the past few years and even decreased slightly. For non-prescription sleep medication, it is an increase of not less than 10 to 11 % by 2020. By December 2020 it was even 41 % extra compared to December 2019. Belgium was already a frontrunner in the EU peloton on the use of sleeping drugs. This position is only strengthened when we look at the figures. The impact of the corona pandemic may play a role here, but other factors may also play a role. The government agreement clearly and rightly states that the excessive consumption of both the medical examinations and the medicines will be slowed down through the idea of accountability in healthcare. I have two questions for you. Firstly, what actions will you take to halt the worrying evolution of increasing drug use with and without prescription? Secondly, I know that it is not exclusively your competence, but is it discussed in consultation with the Länder?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic381x.u57	Firstly, I regret to say that we are among the highest quoted in Europe in terms of the consumption of sleeping drugs. According to the International Narcotics Control Board, Belgium was the second largest consumer of benzodiazepines in Europe in 2019. On average, 1.15 million doses per day are delivered, which is a high number and corresponds to about ten percent of our population. That is why I think we should act. It is important to distinguish between sleeping drugs with and without prescription. A sedative requiring a doctor's prescription is a medicinal product of the benzodiazepine family, whereas the other products do not. The use of benzodiazepines, often for years, is problematic, because tolerance and addiction occur after a few weeks. This is not the case with sleeping agents that are not benzodiazepines and do not require medical prescription. Indeed, the strong increase in the consumption of the non-prescription products observed between December 2019 and December 2020, in particular 41% according to Febelco, is a very important signal that cannot be ignored. It reflects problems faced by the population. Let us hope that it is a temporary phenomenon and that it reduces when people's lives return to normal, with which, of course, I also express a wish. In 2018, the previous government launched a communication campaign using the BelPEP expert platform, Belgian Psychotropics Expert Platform, of the FPS Public Health to focus the attention of doctors, pharmacists and patients on the problem of inadequate use of benzodiazepines. Also for the period 2021-2023 a communication plan psychopharmaceutical was developed, with general practitioners, pharmacists and psychologists as target groups. The plan also pays close attention to the support of professionals through close cooperation with the many parties involved. The approach of that communication plan is to promote cooperation and consultation with and in function of the patient, with the aim of guiding the patient to the best possible form of care, with rational and adequate use of psychopharmaceuticals. Indeed, the results of the recent survey carried out by the FAGG in 2020 show that 70% of patients are highly motivated to stop using benzodiazepines. However, they also declare themselves powerless and need support. Today we want to help and support the patients again. In addition to the communication campaign, we believe that patients also need guidance and that multidisciplinary cooperation between patients, doctors and pharmacists is required. We are also considering the launch of a rehab programme based on the administration of Magistrate prepared benzodiazepines. The practical modalities of such a programme should be discussed in a multidisciplinary working group. You will ask why we then switch to majestic preparations. These preparations offer the advantage that the treatment can be tailored individually to each patient. The treatment could therefore be personalised, both in terms of the number of stages of gradual dose reduction and in terms of the dose administered at each stage, and in terms of the duration of each phase. The treating physician is the person who knows the patient best and he will therefore play a central role throughout the duration of the patient's withdrawal and guidance programme. Withdrawal by dose reduction has been studied in several high-quality clinical trials. Depending on the patient's consumption pattern, this therapeutic approach has a success rate of between 40 % and 70 %. In short, we want to help and support patients with a global guidance strategy, without distinguishing between provinces, regions and communities. I asked RIZIV to set up a multidisciplinary working group to set up this programme. It should explore and formulate proposals for the creation of a guidance programme for each patient who is motivated to stop sleeping drugs that he does not get rid of. In addition, the continuation of reimbursement of primary physiological care contributes to solving this problem. Patients in whom the use of sleep and sedatives is likely to become problematic should be able to rely on this low-threshold care provision. The Länder are involved through the BelPEP expert platform. This theme will also be discussed with the Länder through the Inter-Kabinette Group on Health Policy Drugs.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic381x.u58	Minister, I note that there will be a communication campaign and that a withdrawal programme will be put into effect, with the involvement of the Länder. I very much hope that this result will be achieved, because that is what is needed if we compare the use of sleeping drugs with and without prescription with other countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic381x.u59	Mr President, Minister, a cochlear implant stimulates the auditory nerve in the cochlea by means of electrical impulses. How many treatments are reimbursed on an annual basis? What's the evolution in that? Was an evaluation made on its use? Were the patients' associations and the nose-eel-ear doctors asked questions about a higher refund or a review of the criteria for reimbursement? Finally, can patients who fall out of the boat avail themselves of the Special Solidarity Fund to be funded such an expensive implant?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic381x.u60	Mr President, Mrs Depoorter, in 2019, 233 applications for reimbursement of a cochlear implant were approved by the College of Doctors-Directors of the RIZIV. These applications do not correspond entirely to the data recorded because the medical benefits in kind can be booked by the sickness funds up to two years after their operation. Often there is a difference of several months between the execution of a provision and the booking date. On the basis of the data recorded, 276 benefits in kind relating to cochlear implants were attested during 2019. These data do not take into account the replacements of the speech processor and/or the implant, which have also been taken into account by medical care. I can give you a table showing the evolution of the number of benefits in kind for the last five years. Replacements shall not be taken into account. In 2014, 235 cochlear implants were involved, 300 in 2015, 317 in 2016, 344 in 2017, 325 in 2018 and 276 in 2019. So there's a bit of a wave movement. Since 1 December 2019, the indications for the reimbursement of cochlear implants have been extended, which in practice means that more patients are eligible for cochlear implantation. The data recorded, which are complete until 2019, does not, of course, reflect this change yet. You also asked whether there was an argument to re-evaluate these reimbursement criteria. Until now, the RIZIV has not received an application from the Association for Oto-Rhino-Laryngology to amend or re-evaluate the refund criteria. During the evaluation of files relating to an adjustment of the indications for reimbursement, the Commission sought expert advice from nko-doctors on Implants and Invasive Medical Devices. You asked if an evaluation of the number of patients refused reimbursement was carried out. The patient must meet the specific eligibility criteria laid down. If the refund criteria are not met, the application shall be refused. Depending on the benefits in kind there is either no application procedure, the reimbursement is automatically granted, or an application procedure is applied which is assessed by the insurance institution's advisory doctor or a procedure whereby the agreement of the Board of Medical Directors of the RIZIV is sought. The College shall keep a register of the number of applications refused. Those refused applications shall not be further evaluated. I can give them to you. Approved applications in 2016: 365, refused: 22. Approved applications in 2017: 325, refused: 12. Approved applications in 2018: 383, refused: 5. Approved applications in 2019: 233, refused: 8. You asked whether patients who do not receive a refund but think they are entitled to do so can turn to the Special Solidarity Fund. The Special Solidarity Fund is an additional safety net in addition to the "normal" coverage of compulsory health insurance. It provides financial compensation to patients with a very serious condition for certain medical benefits in kind for which no reimbursement is planned and which are particularly expensive. In principle, cochlear implants may also be included, depending, inter alia, on the patient's specific medical situation, but it is not up to the Fund to take the place of the official bodies assessing and extending the intervention criteria. However, in rare cases which meet the criteria defined in Article 25 of the 1994 Law, any compensation may be envisaged by the Special Solidarity Fund.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic381x.u61	Thank you for your reply, Minister. I think it is positive that the number of applications refused will be reduced. We have seen this since 2016 or 2017. So I think we are on the right track with the extended criteria. I take your answer with regard to the Special Solidarity Fund. I'm guessing people are still falling out of the boat. They can try to turn to that fund.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic381x.u62	Mr Minister, we are at a time when we are paying a great deal of attention to vaccines, especially covid vaccines, but we must not forget pneumococcal vaccines. In this covid period we see that surinfections sometimes play a very important role in the mortality of a covid infection. Attention to the vaccination against pneumococcal is therefore certainly necessary. Vaccination of the population and large group vaccinations are of course a regional competence, but doctors tell us that there are regional differences in the number of patients vaccinated against pneumococcal, hence my question as to whether there has been an evolution over the past five years in Wallonia, Flanders and Brussels.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic381x.u63	Mrs Depoorter, (...) three doses given at the age of eight weeks, sixteen weeks and twelve months and for people over 65 years. Vaccination studies are not carried out every year. In Flanders, coverage in young children for the three doses was estimated at 96.5 % in 2012 and 94.9 % in 2016. In Wallonia, this is slightly lower in young children for the three doses: 89.2 % in 2012 and 92.9 % in 2015. In Brussels, the estimate for 2012 was 90,1%. Unfortunately, we do not have data on vaccination rates in people over 65 years of age.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic381x.u64	Mr. Secretary, this could be just like the bottleneck. As far as the vaccination of children is concerned, our country usually scores well, but as far as the outpatient patients over 65 years of age are concerned, it will really be a point of interest to be included in the medical records of the general practitioner. I would also recommend that we generate data on this, because measuring is known, especially in health care. I think you agree that we should be absolutely attentive to this problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic381x.u65	Minister, dry-needling is a method that uses very thin, drug-free needles to remove muscle pain by releasing nodes that cause more general pain. Dry needling is different from acupuncture, although the method may a priori seem similar: while acupuncture concentrates on the energy flows inside the body and organs, dry needling seeks to stimulate a point that causes the pains felt. A large-scale survey conducted by researchers from the Department of Rehabilitation Sciences of the University of Ghent shows that more and more Belgian physiotherapists, specifically in the north of the country, are using this technique. As many as 65.6% of the therapists interviewed indicated that they had already used dry needles. Physiotherapists interviewed indicated that dry needleing is particularly appropriate for headaches, over-use injuries, jaw pain, neck and lower back. Minister, my questions are not so much about the positive effects of this practice as about its security and legal framework. Researchers at the University of Ghent have not positioned themselves on the effectiveness of the method, but believe that dry needleing is currently in a grey area. Kinesitherapists and medical graduates can take additional training to learn the technique and can also take insurance to apply the dry needle. However, there is no legal framework in Belgium, unlike countries such as the Netherlands, France and Italy. According to the researchers, there is an urgent need for a legal framework. What about the legal framework for the use of this technique in our country? Who can legally use it? Are there any studies demonstrating its effectiveness? Are you planning to frame it in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic381x.u66	Mr Rigot, until now, the Dry Needling exercise is reserved for doctors. It is similar to the practice of acupuncture, which is recognized as an unconventional practice, under the Act of 29 April 1999 on unconventional practices in the fields of medical art, pharmaceutical art, physiotherapy, nursing and paramedical professions. So far, for non-conventional practices, there is only a royal decree on the practice of homeopathy which defines the criteria for the practice of homeopathy. This is not the case for acupuncture, which means that at present its exercise is also reserved for doctors. In 2017, the Federal Council for Kinesitherapy published an opinion on dry needling which states that it "is not currently a legal practice for Belgian physiotherapists". In addition, the Council considers these techniques to be fundamentally different from acupuncture. Although they are indicated for certain primary myofascial problems, the Scientific Commission linked to the Council considered that dry needling could be considered as "an option for treatment in individual patients without evidence of superiority or inferiority compared to other conventional kinesitherapy techniques". The Board did not request that dry needling be considered a special professional practice for physiotherapists. If researchers at the University of Ghent position themselves on the effectiveness of the method, they can share this with their colleagues at the Federal Council for Kinesitherapy. The latter is made up of representatives of universities as well as representatives of professional associations. The Federal Council for Kinesitherapy shall give advice to the Minister who has public health in his or her powers, at the request of the Minister or on his or her own initiative, on all matters relating to kinesitherapy. The Federal Council for Kinesitherapy may also give the governments of the Communities, at their request, advice in all matters relating to the studies and training of physiotherapists. If the scientific situation of dry needling has changed since 2017, the Federal Council will be able to advise us of this and we could then consider amendments to the legislation, but scientific and academic work to gather evidence must be done in order to ensure the quality of care for patients prior to any regularization of this practice.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic381x.u67	Mr Minister, thank you for these additional replies and also for highlighting the Council's opinion on the illegal practice of dry-needling by physiotherapists. So you abound in my view by saying that today this practice must be reserved for doctors. It is essential to remind the kines and also remind the patients who might be seduced by this practice and would like to try it; to recall the risks and who can practice it. It is essential that tomorrow there are no serious consequences as a result of bad practice. Let us not forget, without opposing the duties of the caregivers, a doctor has this power, this right and this ability to make diagnoses. He has a responsibility to take care of them. Today, kines cannot make diagnoses. They can take stock. New practices that could put the patient at risk should not be taken lightly. I really urge you, if you can, to remind practitioners, but also to ensure that patients are informed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic381x.u68	Question No 55014210 by Mrs Barbara Creemers is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic381x.u69	Minister, the Zolgensma medicine is known for crowdfunding for the benefit of baby Pia, who is going to kindergarten soon, if I have read it correctly. I would like to know how negotiations with the company Novartis are going at the moment? By when do you expect clarity in this matter? And what steps have been taken in the last year and a half? I would also like to know how many diagnoses of SMA have been recorded in the past year and a half. How many treatments have started with Spinraza? Spinraza will be refunded for SMA. Perhaps it is also important to know the evolution of the patients treated with Spinraza. Does the medicine meet the expectations? Finally, in your policy paper you mentioned the Rare Diseases and Orphan Medicines Fund and an action plan in this area. I would like to hear from you what actions have already been taken in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic381x.u70	Minister, the reason for this question is the recent interview with baby Pia's mom. She said on 19 February: "In March, April and May I could accept that Corona was an excuse for the delay in the file, but not now." We remember there was a lot of fuss about crowdfunding before the corona crisis to pay for the most expensive drug in the world for Pia. Another side of the matter is that an early diagnosis of the disease is very important in order to be able to start treatment as soon as possible. Flanders is lagging behind in the case, in relation to Wallonia, Germany and the Netherlands. There is still no screening for the congenital condition. Minister Beke has still not made any progress here either. What do you think about the fact that there is a very different policy in the different parts of the country for a disease that can be detected early? After all, this difference in policy costs lives. How far is the file at the federal level? What about the refund file? Are there any discussions or measures being taken to counter the price of usury in Zolgensma? Novartis has announced to start a program around compassionate use, a kind of lottery some babies might enjoy. That's how baby Victor, who's also been in the media for a while, got an injection. Do you know how many patients in Belgium have already received such a Zolgensma syringe?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic381x.u71	Unfortunately, I have to answer the same question as I did two months ago. The refund procedure for Zolgensma is still ongoing with the CTG. It started with the other countries of the Beneluxa initiative. At present, the procedure is at the stage of a joint final HTA assessment by Belgium, Ireland and the Netherlands with Austria as reviewer. A first report took place in the Belgian CTG on 15 December 2020 and in the Dutch Scientific Advisory Council on 14 December 2020. In-house studies are also under way at the Irish Centre for Pharmacodynamic Economy in Dublin. So no negotiations have yet been started. On the basis of the outcome of the HTA assessment, countries will determine whether the joint assessment will be followed by a joint negotiation. For a green light on international negotiations, the CTG will make a proposal in accordance with the legal procedures. The company AveXis Novartis has stated its willingness to work together on that joint assessment and dialogue on reimbursement. As a result, HTA agencies in the three countries will coordinate the timing and content of local HTA procedures. Since the CTG procedure is ongoing, I can't provide you with any more detailed information. This could jeopardise the smooth functioning of the reimbursement procedure. This also applies to all cases for which reimbursement procedures are in progress. The dossier was submitted at the end of October 2020. The timeline of the regulations in Belgium will be followed. Without suspension by the company, a procedure involving negotiation takes about ten months. So theoretically I would have to make a decision in August 2021. However, since the manufacturer has suspended the procedure, that suspension period should be added to the deadline. I cannot tell you how many diagnoses of SMA have been made over the past year and a half. I can say that according to the information I have received, there are currently no Belgian patients who are eligible for treatment with Zolgensma and who have not yet received one in clinical studies, crowdfunding or the worldwide Managed Access Program of Novartis. As regards the treatment of SMA with Spinraza, at the time of the data extraction from the Belgian SMA register on 22 June 2020, 134 patients had been entered with Nusiners since September 2018. The analysis of the data and its validation still needs to be carried out. This will be done in the context of a CTG procedure at the end of the Spinraza Agreement. For a screening with helperrik in Flanders I am not authorized. That is a Community competence. You also asked me about my action plan on orphan medicines and rare diseases. I see several challenges there. In addition to the obvious budgetary problems, there is also the increasing complexity of the products and the treatments of the diseases, while there are also many more scientific and clinical uncertainties as the medicines are often registered earlier. We also have a supply-driven system, which means that firms have an important part to play in determining the medical needs to be treated and when they want to place a product on the market in Belgium. In Belgium, we have the opportunity to quickly offer products to patients, even for the approval of the EEA. However, making use of these opportunities is in the hands of the firms and we often see in practice that they do not. The level of financial incentives to make their products available early is likely to outweigh the interest of patients. I regret that. These are all elements that I am researching and for which I want to find solutions in a new pact with the pharmaceutical sector, in consultation with all the actors involved, not just the industry. I am also looking at what is happening in the surrounding countries. For this we can further exploit our cooperation in the Beneluxa initiative.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic381x.u72	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. No evaluation has been carried out since 2018 for the 134 patients treated with Spinraza. That's a long time. We must play the ball fairly briefly when it comes to patients with such a serious problem. Consideration should be given to ensuring optimal therapy. After all, it is very often patients who are incompetent and who might be better treated. I have nothing against joint procedures in itself, but above all they should not slow down. With ten months and the time of suspension, we arrive August 2021. That's two years later, a long time for new patients. With regard to your action plan on orphan medicines and orphan diseases, please refer to the pharmaceutical pact. The pharmaceutical pact will be part of the solution, but the problem of orphan medicinal products and orphan diseases needs to be looked at more broadly than just the medicines. It is also necessary to find the way to the optimal medicine and to the optimal treatment procedure for patients. The N-VA Group has tabled a resolution on tackling orphan diseases and medicines. I invite you to go over that. It is balanced and it is based on the patient's problems and on where we should go, on the patient's care path, on the sharing of knowledge between the reference centres and the treating general practitioner, who sometimes finds it very difficult to find where he can go. So it really goes much wider than just the drug or pharmaceutical pact you're talking about.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic381x.u73	I didn't actually hear you say anything about the price of Zolgensma. There are apparently negotiations in progress with other countries. That is good in itself, but is it also discussed and studied in these negotiations how Zolgensma's price was achieved and how we can fight it together? You spoke of an interim discussion in the Committee on Medicinal Products Meeting on 15 December 2020. Are the relevant documents public? You say you're not qualified for the helper. There are nine Health Ministers our country. This is not only expensive and inefficient, but also extremely bad for health. In one region there is no detection, which generates more costs at the other level. That's so absurd. I can't understand that. In the corona crisis, we also saw that we need unity of command. SMA is the same for a Flemish or Walloon baby. We also need that unit in other areas, for other diseases. To combat it, we must be able to look at preventive and curative measures together. I cannot understand why one might want to go even further in this desire for division. We really need one Health Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic381x.u74	Mr Minister, family hypercholesterolaemia is at the root of cardiovascular diseases, which are still the main cause of death in our country. An early diagnosis can really make a difference. Often we link hypercholesterolaemia to the way of life, the general health problem, but the family hypercholesterolaemia is very often caused by a genetic disorder. We see that our country is failing in the detection of familial hypercholesterolaemia. According to several studies, only 4% of patients with familial hypercholesterolaemia would have been diagnosed. That's very little. We can prevent a lot of long-term diseases through better detection. This can be effectively implemented at the level of the general practitioners. I have two specific questions. What do you think is causing our bad score for that screening? Do you see possibilities to screen more frequently for familial hypercholesterolaemia and to be more alert on the basis of the global medical record?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic381x.u75	Mr President, Mrs Depoter, I will not repeat what you said about this genetic condition. Underdiagnosis of family hypercholesterolaemia is also observed in other countries and is indeed due to inadequate targeted screening. The identification of patients and their families is important for the prevention of premature cardiovascular complications. You are right to refer to the general practitioners, who play a major role in the detection of these diseases and the prevention of premature cadiovascular suffering. When the diagnosis of familial hypercholesterolaemia is made, it is appropriate to screen the other first-degree family members and possibly other family members as there is indeed about 50% chance that this will pass from parents to children. I would like to endorse that, without being able to pursue a policy on this right away. The organisation of generalised screening is a matter for the Länder, so I really should not go into that further. However, according to my information, there is no evidence in the scientific literature to recommend a generalised screening of the entire population. For Flanders, this debate must continue in the Flemish Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic381x.u76	Mr Minister, I did not ask for generalised screening, but for targeted screening at the level of the general practitioner in families where the condition is known. Family links are stored in the global medical file. This will make it possible to sensitise and thus also provide for the reimbursement of screening. If we weigh the cost against the social profit we make, it will be absolutely positive. The number of early cardiovascular accidents due to family hypercholesterolaemia is known and scientifically based. I would advise you to take this with you during the following consultations with the general practitioners, so that scientific targets can be set up to screen more patients, certainly looking at the family clusters. We are now used to thinking and working in clusters. It would be quite a step forward if we were to proceed in this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic381x.u77	Mr Minister, technically doctors can restore the hymen to women, if they so wish. There are no scientific or medical indications. Very often that has to do with beliefs. How many women had their hymen repaired by region? What is the cost per health insurance fund for these recovery operations? We would like to ask for an inquiry into the reasons why women are doing so. The recovery of the hymen is covered by vulva and vagina plastic. If you cannot distinguish between hymen repair, can you tell the cost per region for vulva and vagina plastic? Can you indicate what percentage of this is the recovery of the hymen?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic381x.u78	The classification provision of vagina and vulvaplasty is indeed a flag that thinks many loads. It shall not be possible to determine retrospectively what the supply was attested for. On the number of hymen repair operations, I have no figures based on the nomenclature. A doctor must comply with a number of legal provisions, such as Article 34 of the GVU Act, in the event of surgery to restore the hymen. Medical care insurance shall not cover benefits provided for an aesthetic purpose, except under conditions laid down by the King, after the opinion of the Insurance Committee. Article 73 states that the doctor and the dental officer, in conscience and in full freedom, shall judge the care to be provided to patients. They will ensure that they provide dedicated and competent medical care, in the interests of the patient, with respect for the rights of the patient, taking into account the global resources made available by the community. They shall refrain from prescribing, implementing or having implemented redundant or unnecessarily expensive benefits in kind. That is the legal framework. That is, of course, very general. I received your question on Friday, so perhaps that did not leave enough time to give the breakdown by region. So I don't have it here. I can give you a detailed table. You will see that the number of benefits per year is about 2,500 in the outpatient setting and about 500 in the hospitals. I have here an overview of four years, with a little detail. At present, however, I do not have a regional breakdown.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic381x.u79	Mr Minister, can you give me the regional breakdown in writing?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic381x.u80	I'll check it out.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic381x.u81	This is a nomenclature of EUR 117 per operation. That's not insurmountable. You indicated it yourself, it is the doctor who decides whether it will be refunded or not. I'm very interested to know if there are any differences here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic381x.u82	Question No 55014329C by Mrs Rohonyi is postponed, and question No 55014357C by Mrs Fonck.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic381x.u83	Minister, I have a question about the victims of sexual violence. We find that intra-family violence has increased in corona times. More and more victims are targeting the Care Centres after Sexual Violence (ZSG), which in itself is a good thing. Let us hope that the number of victims has not increased. For corona hours, with the Care Staff Fund, we have allocated more funds to the Care Centres after Sexual Violence, especially to the training of nursing staff in those centres. Mr Minister, is more staff trained and deployed in these centres? Flemish Minister for Justice, Zuhal Demir, recently indicated that there is a difference in the legal guidance between victims and perpetrators of sexual violence. In fact, perpetrators can be assisted by a free lawyer, while the victims can't. Would you be willing to investigate whether the victims could also be assisted by a free lawyer so that they know who to contact?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic381x.u84	Mr President, Mrs Depooster, the resources to which you refer have not yet been used in 2020. In 2020, after sexual violence, the training of healthcare centre staff continued to benefit from the resources made available to the Institute for Gender Equality. From 2021 onwards, staff training will benefit from the Fund. As regards the number of applications, I can inform you that, since the start of the care centres up to 30 September 2020, 3.027 victims have registered in one of the care centres, including 1.458 in Brussels, 841 in Ghent and 728 in Liège. I can give you the figures every year. In 2018, there were 961 notifications, 1,152 notifications in 2019 and 784 notifications in the first to the third quarter of 2020. Those figures for 2020 still need to be updated. This brings me to a total of 3,027 notifications, if I add the fourth quarter of 2017. The figures show a decrease. The hypothesis is, of course, that this decline is due to the lockdown and the corona measures. This is also why specific awareness-raising measures have been taken to make it clear that the centres were also available during the lockdown. The chat sexual violence showed an increase of 58 % of the calls. An additional budget has therefore been allocated to strengthen that aid line. I can give you details of the full-time units employed in the current centres, including by qualification. Perhaps I should give them to you in writing so that you have a full table with the other figures as well. In 2021, these VTEs will be increased, linked to the extension of existing care centres to the entire judicial district, for example in East Flanders, or to several police areas, for example in Brussels and Liège. I come to your question on legal assistance. The evaluation of the pilot project has indeed shown the need for additional legal assistance for victims and care personnel. Since early last year, several steps have been taken to improve existing free legal assistance to victims. A new, faster and more appropriate cooperation was developed between the care centres, the public prosecutor's office and the justice houses. Victim reception in the courthouses will receive an automatic statement as soon as a ZSG file is notified to the public prosecutor. At that time, justice assistants will be able to offer their services to the victims immediately. In addition, on the basis of the recommendations from the evaluation of the pilot project, training has already been organised for the Legal Assistance Committee, which provides free first-line legal assistance. In this context, cooperation will thus also be established between the care centres and the Legal Assistance Committees in order to provide better, faster and tailor-made legal assistance to the victims and/or staff of the care centres. I do not know whether this answers your question sufficiently, but it is nevertheless a step forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic381x.u85	That is indeed a step forward, thank you, and you speak in the future. I hope that this can be done quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic381x.u86	On the basis of my preparation, I have no idea of the implementation. I speak in future wisdom, as you say. I'm afraid to tell you when this is about to happen. I might be able to check to see if you'd be letin' me know.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic381x.u87	Perhaps this could be added to the written reply? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic381x.u88	A 2009 KCE report already showed that Belgium was not expecting a further substantial increase in the need for plasma derivatives and also indicated that we are heavily dependent on the international market. Therefore, a number of measures were taken in 2018. A four-year tender was then awarded to CSL Behring for 50% of the IVIg volume.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic381x.u89	Mr De Caluwé, (...) European countries are immunoglobulins in Belgium from plasma from voluntary donors, but this stock needs to be supplemented by immunoglobulins from internationally collected plasma in order to meet demand. Recent problems have been caused by acute shortages. Due to the impact of the covid pandemic on international plasma collection, additional deficits are expected. Belgium has introduced a national procurement procedure for the fractionation of domestic plasma and the establishment of a national strategic stock. Since then, Belgian hospitals have been obliged to meet 50% of their intravenous immunoglobulin needs through this national tender. There is no shortage at that level. In view of the fact that this tender expires within a few months, I have instructed the administration to issue a new tender in the very short term. That's more of a protective measure. However, changes to the tender require legislative changes. For the remaining 50 % of the intravenous immunoglobulins and for 100 % of the subcutaneous immunoglobulins, the hospitals supply themselves individually through so-called commercial tenders from companies on the Belgian market. With regard to these medicinal products, Privigen has a market share of 74.7 % of the total volume of intravenous immunoglobulins. Hizentra has a market share of 93.5 % of the total volume of subcutaneous immunoglobulins. It has now been established that the prices of medicinal products were at the lowest in Europe and that the price is 20% lower than the European average. In an environment with increased demand and a shortage of supply, this cannot be sustained. I have therefore agreed to the price increase proposed by the CTG, which will enter into force on 1 March 2021 and which will bring us to the European average. In this way we will at least avoid a negative impact on supply for these medicines. Two other medicines, in particular Iqymune and Nanogam, are subject to a price adjustment procedure. I'm waiting for the results. The problems are further monitored by the competent administrations of the FAGG and the RIZIV. As part of the task force, recommendations are being drawn up on the basis of a survey of the firms marketing intravenous immunoglobulins for hospital pharmacists and specialist doctors in hospitals to deal with the consequences of shortages. It was recently concluded that the 2019 recommendations should be maintained as the stability of the availability of these products cannot be perfectly guaranteed. On 17 November 2020, a new meeting of the Task Force confirmed the 2019 recommendations, including rationalisation of use, including for the subcutaneous immunoglobulins, which cannot now be considered an alternative since they are not sufficiently available themselves. In the meantime, I have instructed my services to analyse all relevant policy options for the future, taking into account the benefits and risks. The possibility of extending future tenders and the corresponding legislative amendment is part of this. The European dimension of the problem will also be taken into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic381x.u90	Mr President, Minister, I would like to point out from your reply that, in the meantime, action has been taken to ensure that further deficits can be avoided. I am also pleased to hear that the problem is being addressed and followed up and that a structural solution is being sought. Given the importance of this, I'm sure that's a good thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic381x.u91	Minister, everyone is aware of the psychological consequences of the corona crisis. Questions have already been asked about it today. Students suffer from this. Self-employed people have problems, as do workers and people who work in health care. This leads to large waiting lists with independent psychologists. Some even enter a patient stop so that they can close their waiting lists. They also note that they will not be filled in the vacancies for more hours. By adjusting the convention, it was promised to work towards a better remuneration for clinical psychologists. Minister, what is the state of play regarding a better remuneration for psychologists? Has the convention been amended? Could you give us a more detailed explanation? 1,500 first-line psychologists would be employed. What is the state of play in this? Have they been recruited yet? If not, when will they be available for the treatment of patients?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic381x.u92	I will repeat what I have already answered a question from Mrs Depoorter. The pandemic is indeed a factor of enormous pressure on psychological aid, because the need is high. The resources provided for first-line psychologists are divided into three main lines. First, there are currently over 800 clinical psychologists active within the existing ELP offer (first line psychological care). Children, young people, their families, adults and elderly people with mild to moderate mental problems are entitled to a refund of up to eight individual sessions per year. This requires a referral by a doctor, a pediatrician, a CLB doctor, a doctor of Child and Family or a child psychiatrist. The brake fee is 11 euros per session or 4 euros with the increased allowance. The list of available psychologists and orthopedagogics can be consulted via the internet. That's the first line. You are aware of the findings we make in this respect. The budget for this is totally under-used, which is a bit paradoxical, given the complaints about the high level of distress. So it doesn't work out the way it's supposed to. Secondly, among the people at high risk of psychological distress or even suicide, this is relatively new, the self-employed are an important risk group. In order to meet this need, the RIZIV Insurance Committee, at the request of the Minister of Small and Medium-sized Enterprises and myself, approved on 8 February an agreement providing for an additional offer of support, specifically for self-employed persons. What's that all about? An agreement has been concluded with the non-profit association "Un pass dans l'impasse," a non-profit association with experience in this field. A specific free helpline or alarm is activated by a number of actors who can recognise or face this problem, for example curators, banks, business offices, social insurance funds, health care providers or clinical psychologists and orthopedagogics who regularly come into contact with the self-employed. Self-employed persons with psychological needs can rely on up to eight free sessions of psychological care at a recognized clinical psychologist or orthopedagogic. Meanwhile, that has been knocked off at the level of the RIZIV. A contract for independent psychologists was approved on 22 February. We hope to attract just over 600 clinical psychologists and orthopedagogic eyes. There are a number of specific requirements with regard to the aid provider: he must be able to work on a mobile basis, he must receive training in prevention suicide, he must be able to use a network of partners when, in addition to psychological assistance, there is also a need for legal or financial assistance. This is a very new project that I have designed together with Minister Clarinval. I do not dare to anticipate the way in which the roll-out will take place, but all decisions have been taken formally. Thirdly, there is also an important project, which I have already mentioned in an answer to a question from Mrs Depoorter. We wanted an adaptation of the modalities in the RIZIV Convention with regard to the psychologist in the first line. This is discussed in the Transversal Agreement Committee. That is indeed about an important investment. I will repeat what I said to Mrs Depoorter. This has become a fairly broad discussion. It is not only about the funding of the clinical psychologist and orthopedagogic eye, but it is also about which type of treatment is reimbursed, individual sessions or possibly group sessions, which target groups are intended, how we can maximise the quality of the additional psychological aid workers and how support is best organised in the first line on the ground. We have an agreement in principle with the Communities on this subject, but this is further developed in the transversal agreement committee. I hope that we will roll that out quickly, but I am aware that there is a short-term urgency that has not been immediately answered. I am also considering ways of finding solutions to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic381x.u93	Minister, I know that you pay a great deal of attention to psychological aid, so I do not have to convince you of its importance. Especially at this time, everyone realizes that, if there were any people who used to doubt its usefulness. As you point out, there is, of course, an urgent need, but of course you cannot do magic either. If the aid workers are not there, you cannot use them either, but it is good that we are working on solutions tailored to the different target groups. The initiative for the self-employed, which you cite and which was developed together with Minister Clarinval, is a very good example of this. I am sure that you have a partner in committee to strengthen psychological assistance, but that too will be a long-term work. I think we all want to cooperate in this.
