ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic624x.u1	In the introductory statement, we planned to answer as many questions as possible. We will then remain open to debate. Ladies and gentlemen, at our previous meeting on 9 June, I gave you an initial overview of the work on setting up the dialogue platform. We are now four months later and since our intervention we have made progress. For the record, the Council of Ministers of 30 April 21 approved the contours of the dialogue platform, which consists of three main dynamics foreseen in the government agreement, namely a broad democratic debate, thematic working groups and dialogue between political representatives. The democratic debate will take place at the level of government through a participatory process via an online platform, a process that is taking our full attention today. In concrete terms, all Belgians and Belgian residents over the age of 16 will be invited in the first quarter of year 22 to visit the online platform to give their opinion on the modernisation, the increase in efficiency and the deepening of the democratic principles of state structures. Civil society, academia, experts and local authorities will also be invited to participate. To do this, the government has decided to use the MonOpinion platform developed by the Strategy and Support FPS. In order to make this participatory process as rigorous and transparent as possible, it was essential for the government to have scientific leadership throughout this innovative exercise. That is why the government has decided to be assisted by a scientific committee. To this end, the establishment, the missions and the composition of this scientific committee were translated into a royal decree on 29 June 2021. In particular, it is responsible for ensuring the regularity and authenticity of the platform and for dealing with recommendations based on the principles of transparency, impartiality, representativeness, neutrality and fair return. It is also responsible for supporting the content, process, definition of issues, methodology and reporting. Finally, he is responsible for making recommendations to the Minister of Institutional Reforms and Democratic Renewal in the context of his missions. As I said in June, there are ten members, both French-speaking and Dutch-speaking, in a multidisciplinary composition combining constitutionalists, political scientists, experts in citizen participation and artificial intelligence. The presidency is held by my colleague and myself or by our cabinets and the secretariat, by members of the administration. In order to ensure the proper functioning of the work between the members, there is a reserve duty during the work. In addition, a budget has been set up to pay for the attendance tokens. Tokens of attendance are paid to members of the Scientific Committee, as well as travel expenses if necessary. At the Scientific Committee meeting, a token of 125 euros is granted to members. This budget is borne by the SPF BOSA, responsible for digital democracy. To date, the Scientific Committee has met six times since the start of the process. These meetings provided an opportunity to discuss and validate a series of crucial elements in the implementation of the process on the basis of their experience, either in the practical modalities of the platform or in the analysis of the themes. The decision, for example, to propose closed questions, open questions, and the possibility of submitting proposals on the topics discussed; but also elements that have improved the definition of what the administration is looking for as external support for content writing. Similarly, on the basis of the recommendations made by the Scientific Committee, it was decided to opt for the same platform for all categories of respondents. Whether the person responds as a citizen or as a representative of an association or a communal authority, he or she will have access to the same platform. There will also be no differentiation in the questions asked according to the groups. All questions addressed to all, and even though a more complex approach will also be present in some questions. The respondent will of course be able to report or indicate that he or she is a member of a group or respond on behalf of a group, which will be important for the quality of the final report. The aim is to be able to reflect what has been expressed fairly. The Scientific Committee also recommended that all contributions be taken into account, provided that they are formulated in one of the three national languages and comply with the conditions of use of the platform. The contributions in the scope of the list of topics to be proposed on the platform will all be analysed. Contributions that appear off-scope will be identified as such and will not be analyzed. To ensure the quality of the responses, the Scientific Committee would like to see the option of drafting proposals by participants rather than simply supporting proposals already made by other participants. Experience shows that, according to these experts, contributions and recommendations become more substantial if there is no possibility of taking into account the reactions of others. The Scientific Committee also questioned the possibility of opening all anonymous contributions in open data in order to guarantee the principle of fair return of contributions. After discussion, the Scientific Committee replied in the affirmative. The data collected will be made public, after the submission of the report, as open data. This will allow any actor to produce an alternative analysis of the data. This deliberate exhibition constitutes a particularly strong guarantee of credibility, as well as a guarantee of confidence, in respect of the rights of persons as provided for in the General Data Protection Regulation, only anonymised data being available in open data. The Scientific Committee also issued a proposal for action on the communication. The idea would be to randomly send a letter to 11,000 Belgians and people living in Belgium over 16 years old to invite them personally to visit the platform and participate in the consultation. According to the experts, this would boost communication and participation through this tool, which would also have the advantage of being representative given the number. The online platform is also based on the support and support of various experts we use through three public procurements. A first contract was launched for support in content, process, methodology, drafting of questions and drafting of the report for the online platform and a budget of EUR 500 000 was foreseen. This contract was first published on 2 August. As of the closing date of the tenders on 15 September, only one tender had been submitted. After analysis by BOSA's e-Procurement service, this offer proved to be irregular due to the non-fulfilment of a substantial formality, i.e. the oblivion of a compulsory signature on a document necessary for the offer. As a result, a new market was published on October 8. In practice, for the performance of the mission, it is requested that the bidder propose an interdisciplinary team of composition. This team will include two key profiles: a profile specializing in Belgian constitutional law and a profile specializing in the citizen participation process. One of these two profiles will be Dutch-speaking and the other, French-speaking. But they will obviously both have to be able to work in a bilingual environment as required by the mission. Each key profile will be associated with an alternate. We have decided to bring a slight relaxation of the selection criteria to the market launched in August, in the hope of attracting a larger number of bids. It is important to note that there are two missions to this market that take place at different times. Before consultation on the one hand, the successful tenderer will mainly have to carry out the contextualization and drafting of the questions. The successful tenderer shall, on the other hand, draw up the final quality report on the basis of the contributions deposited on the platform. Contextualization is an essential point. We all know that our institutions and their functioning are more complex and difficult to understand for the vast majority of our citizens. The themes must be made understandable and accessible to all respondents, the general population over the age of 16 and, therefore, not just the most informed. They must be able to appropriate questions, understand them and answer them. In this way, the successful tenderer will have to ensure that they provide elements to enable the participants to form an opinion and then to express it in their response. As regards the questions, the contractor of this public contract will have to draw up the content of the platform. It is based on the theme list proposed in annex to the specifications. These issues relate both to institutional reforms and to democratic renewal, as they relate to the organisation of the State in the broadest sense of the word. When preparing the questions, the contractor will have to ensure that the questions are formulated in such a way as to enable as many people as possible to participate, without any loss of quality. In addition, he will have to ensure that every time the best possible approach is found to tackle each issue, in particular through concrete cases. The tenderer will have to develop a method and the Scientific Committee will be consulted on it. External competence is thus called upon to ensure the neutrality of the exercise and its professional quality as far as possible. In practice, insofar as public procurement can be awarded, the online platform will be operational and accessible to citizens during the first quarter of next year. For the purposes of this contract, tenders must be submitted by 9 November 2021 at the latest. The award is therefore possible at the earliest at the end of November, depending on the tenders. From the moment the assignment will be entrusted to a service provider, it will have six weeks to provide us with the contextualization and the questionnaires. At the end of the consultation, the team assigned to the questions will have to prepare a report collecting all the answers and contributions from the online platform. This report will be handed over to the government four months after the end of the consultation. The report will also be made public so that anyone who wishes to read it can read it. I would like to stress that we are not asking for a statistical report, but a report that faithfully translates and interprets the different responses of all respondents on the basis of the different trends that emerge in the treatment of the answers and contributions. I will then come to the second service assignment, concerning the semantic treatment of the answers and contributions arising from the online platform. This task, with a total budget of EUR 500 000, will be published in the coming weeks. This budget is charged to the FOD BOSA. Why such an assignment? The participatory process should generate a fairly large volume of requests. Such a volume will not be able to be handled manually within a reasonable period of time. There will therefore need to be recourse to actors specialising in semantic treatment and analysis. This semantic analysis will use different technical means to identify and merge citizens' responses. It is important to note that account will be taken of all contributions made in one of the three national languages, in accordance with the moderating charter and in relation to the topics discussed. This task will thus make it possible to present in an organised and understandable way the ideas that have been formulated, but also to make a synthesis of the answers. They will then serve as input for the interpretation of the results and the preparation of the final report which is the subject of the first task I have just mentioned. Indeed, previous experience has shown that the analysis work of the team that will prepare the final report should be facilitated. For this purpose, the contractor of this contract will have to provide a statistical synthetic report and an instrument for visualising the results six weeks after the end of the consultation. In other words, the team responsible for preparing the final report will receive a document that will sort and classify the different responses and contributions, and a toolbox that will mix quantitative elements with qualitative analysis, respecting the diversity, intelligibility and effectiveness of the rendering. Moreover, the raw data, i.e. all anonymised answers and contributions, will become open data after the submission of the report, with respect for the General Data Protection Regulation. This will allow any actor to rework the raw elements if required. This is a guarantee of transparency with regard to citizens. The third mission to be published in the coming weeks concerns communication. The Council of Ministers allocated a budget of EUR 1.1 million on 23 July 2021. Communications shall be subject to an existing framework agreement within public administrations. The three contractors of this framework agreement will compete with each other. It's a mini-competence. The contract will be awarded on the basis of the criteria laid down in the initial framework agreement. To ensure the participatory process, it is essential that the online platform is perfectly integrated into a global and diversified communication strategy. In order to implement this platform, citizens need to be informed and encouraged to participate. The communication strategy must be designed in such a way as to obtain the greatest possible support from citizens and civil society. In order to convince citizens to participate, they will need to be sensitised and informed on the issues. This is done by contextualising and enabling complex themes, which are often considered far away from the daily lives of the Belgians, to enable them to formulate appropriate answers or contributions. This communication campaign will have to take place in several stages. Before and after the consultation, it will be essential to raise awareness and inform all citizens about the process of civic participation so that they have the necessary information to participate, communicate the importance of participating in the participatory process and to position the online platform in the wider process of the dialogue platform. It is important for citizens to be aware of the unpublished nature of the démarche. After consultation and consideration of contributions, there will be a need for clear communication on the results of the participatory process. Communication will therefore take place in three steps. This will be defined more precisely by the agency that will be selected. For this purpose, the contractor will have to use different communication channels, e.g. messages in animation for publication on social networks, texts, photos and info charts for the written press and radio and TV spots. In addition, certain awareness-raising actions in the field will be considered where appropriate. Finally, regarding the MyOpinion platform, some have discussed possible technical problems. It is true that there was an incident on 2 September last. Due to an expired certificate it was no longer possible to support a petition on the platform. That problem has now been solved. In parallel, the coalition agreement entrusts the Chamber with the responsibility to complete that exercise with a deliberative process. The coalition agreement provides for experiments with new forms of civic participation, such as civilian Kabinets or mixed panels in the Chamber of Representatives. It is therefore up to the Chamber to decide on one or more topics which will be discussed by lottery-marked citizens and Members of Parliament. This could be a real soundbox for an online platform. The complementarity of these two processes could make the democratic debate particularly qualitative and innovative. It is up to the Court to define the process in question more precisely, as well as its modalities. The government is willing to assist the Chamber in the implementation of the process. The government wants to prepare a future state reform, but this time citizens, civil society and academia will have the opportunity to participate and formulate their opinions and recommendations, all in order to inform the political representatives during their dialogue, as provided for in the government agreement. That is what I can tell you about the first part of the dialogue platform, namely the online platform. I now give the floor to my colleague Annelies Verlinden, who will discuss the other two dynamics of the dialogue platform. The government, in particular my colleague and I, is following closely the work of the Joint Committee on State Reform.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic624x.u2	Colleagues, as already explained, in addition to the survey of citizens via the online platform that Mr Clarinval has just explained, several other fundamental steps have been taken in recent months to optimally prepare the political dialogue envisaged in the government agreement on a new state structure that is improved and more effective. I think we agree on that. As I have already explained in this committee, it seems to me very important that the new reforms be well prepared in an atmosphere of mutual understanding and on the basis of the necessary expertise. The collection of knowledge and expertise is crucial to be able to start the next political dialogue on State reform, while being well prepared and based on accurate information. The best way to work well tomorrow is to work well today. This is all the more valid for an issue as complex and sensitive as that of the institutional structure of our country. The experience of our previous state reforms teaches us that discussions on the institutional structure are particularly sensitive and represent a real political challenge. I am fully aware of this, as is my French-speaking colleague. I want to make the best possible preparations for the reform of the state, in order to give the political dialogue in this area the best possible chance of success and to value the agreement of the government. That is why, in recent months, we have reached out to the state governments, the various parliaments of our country, as well as to all federal and sub-state public services. The state governments have also accepted this outstretched hand, even though they are otherwise politically constituted. A number of arrangements were made at the Consultation Committee of 8 September 2021 to involve the Länder in the process from the outset. For example, it was first decided that, in addition to all federal government departments, all federal government departments would be questioned about the bottlenecks in the current division of powers. In this way, all administrations, both federal and substate, are involved in the process. The Consultative Committee also decided, in principle, to involve officials of the administrations under their respective powers in thematic working groups and to set up an official interfederal task force to support agreed decisions and procedures. A proposal of composition and working methods of these thematic working groups and task force will be submitted to the next Consultation Committee, which will take place on 24 November 2021. Finally, a procedure was also agreed for the exchange of information between the federal government and the Länder to prepare institutional reforms. As you know, a joint committee has also been set up at Parliament level, the so-called Comeval, which has been in charge of evaluating state reforms since 1970. The first hearing with experts on health policy took place on 15 October 2021. Colleagues, to appoint the elephant in the chamber, I know that some of you, especially from the opposition, are rather contemptuous of the design and added value of this committee. Allow me to say two things about that. Firstly, it is not clear today whether the work of this committee will be the forerunner of a major state reform. What I can say with certainty is that if the subject is not discussed, there will be no state reform. Speaking makes you think, and thinking makes you speak. Secondly, it is you, the Members of Parliament, who, together with colleagues, will determine the effectiveness and success of the Joint Committee. As Minister for Institutional Reform, I can only make a warm call for the work of the Joint Committee to be well prepared. The same also applies to the invitation that I, together with Mr Clarinval, sent to the Chamber of Representatives on 20 May 2021 to experiment in the Chamber with new forms of civic participation such as civilian Kabinets or mixed panels on a number of issues related to the accurate and efficient functioning of our democracy. Here too, I can only encourage the Chamber to work on this experimental and innovative process. Finally, it was also agreed at the Consultation Committee that the Land governments would invite their own parliaments to contribute according to their rules of procedure. As you know, there is already an exercise in this area in the Flemish Parliament. I would now like to give the floor to Parliament for further questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic624x.u3	Madam Minister, Minister, I am pleased that there is an exchange of views. This format certainly has advantages, but it also has disadvantages. We're past the stage of the major analysis. We need to be able to go into issues in greater depth. That is why I was asking for the debate to be divided into different structures. I understand you have a different opinion. I think it is useful to be able to address every question in the future. I have a general comment to make. Mrs. Verlinden, you referred to the Joint Committee in the Chamber and the Senate. You said that mostly people from the opposition are disdainful about that. I sit there all the time. All I do there is try to boost the level of ambition. I simply note that there should not even be talk about employment policy, when this is the theme of the day. I expect more ambition there. But what intrigued me most was that you said: 'especially from the opposition there is contempt'. I understand from that that a number of people from the majority are also disdainful of that committee. I can only encourage them to raise the level of ambition. So far, a political comment I wanted to make. Then I come to the theme of the day. I have submitted 21 questions. I have crossed out the questions that you have actually answered, but there are still many that have not been answered. I'm afraid you'll have to write it down, because there are quite a few of them. The questions about timing have all been answered. You say that the exercise will start in the first quarter of 2022. The question is how realistic that is. This brings me to my second series of questions on public procurement. We hear from Minister Clarinval that there are three: for the platform, for the semantic analysis and for communication. It is striking that none of these public contracts have yet been awarded. You initially said that this would start in September and that the institutional part of the dialogue platform would be completed by December. At the moment it has already become the first quarter of 2022. I am terribly sorry, but I have to question the feasibility of timing, given that none of the three public contracts have been awarded. I have some questions about that. I have a question about the first government contract, the platform. That is the mandate of 8 October 2021 for an amount of EUR 500 000, for which the signature was missing, which is already striking. What is even more striking is that only one person has put the assignment in place. I understand that the decision has now been re-launched and that a decision will be taken by the end of November 2021. Then it will be asked that the provider offers both contextualisation and the questions that are asked within a period of six weeks. I want that verified. That is what I think Minister Clarinval has explained. Is that right? After all, in six weeks the whole contextualization and also define the questions precisely, it seems to me to be an ambitious exercise. On the second government assignment, the semantic analysis, I'll be back later. On the third public contract, the communicative analysis, I'll be back later. I would like to make another point here. We agreed that a hearing could be held here in Parliament with the scientific committee's supervisors, especially for the first public contract, in particular the accompanying content of the questions and so on. That deal was basically knocked off. I've had the appointment re-checked in the meantime. I understand from the services of the Chamber, which have been in contact with you on this matter, that the hearing would not be possible because the Scientific Committee does not have a representative who can speak on behalf of the Committee, which I can understand in itself. After all, they are academics and experts. It depends on the structure, but it is not necessarily the intention that there is a hierarchy. However, it is important that we can see those people, that we can hear them and that a transparent discussion can take place in Parliament. All ten of them are invited to us. So I would very much like to put that invitation on the table and I would like to see your response to that. I assume that you have spoken to them about this. I understand from Minister Clarinval that they have already come together six times and have already validated a number of cases. So the question is whether we can have the information validated by the Scientific Committee. Can this information be delivered to Parliament? Which brings me to the second public contract, the semantic analysis. This is a discussion we have had before, in particular on the question of reliability and transparency and whether any opinion will count. We have repeatedly received the answer that we do not have to worry about it and that it will all be okay. Maybe I see too much trouble and you're certainly free to pierce it, but I hear words that make me a little nervous. You must forgive me, I am a critical listener. On the first public procurement, with questions and answers, Minister Clarinval says that all the answers will be analyzed, which pleases me, except those that are off scope. Then I immediately ask myself who decides what off scope is. When is it not covered by the exercise? Who's doing the selection? On the basis of which criteria will the selection take place and how will it proceed? Fortunately, it is also said that all information will be made public via open data, and I very much appreciate that. My question, however, is whether this also applies to off-scope information. Will that information also be shared transparently so that the exercise can be verified? The second public contract, the semantic analysis, costs 500,000 euros. That makes a few flags go up for me. It is a semantic analysis that will be digitally processed, with results being interpreted digitally. Those are the words of Minister Clarinval. Based on what criteria? How's that gonna work out? Who decides? How is the model set up? What happens to the data? Will all the data be shared here in open data and analysed as the Minister said so that all this is done correctly? That brings me to the third public contract, namely communication. We hear again confirmed that there is a framework contract with three organisations and that this will be done at different stages: heating up, guiding and subsequently processing. I may have missed it, but I am interested to know on the basis of which criteria the precise choice will be made between the various public authorities. It is not because there is a framework contract that selection should not be sufficiently objective and correct. I'd like to get some information on that question. In addition, there is constant talk in the media of a cost of EUR 1 million for that communication pathway. However, in the information that was previously provided to Parliament, and I refer to the note you submitted to the Council of Ministers on 30 April, a communication path of EUR 1.7 million was discussed. There's a difference. Was that initial calculation a little excessive? Has it been adjusted? What explains the difference between the two amounts? Then I come to the specific questions about the dialogue platform, which must be finalised within six weeks of the award of the contract. We have been able to read about this in the press, always first in the press. The questions would be divided into five themes, for example on the system of the Communities and the Regions, or the solidarity mechanism, the transfers, the role of the Senate, the role of the Consultation Committee, civic participation, electoral circles... All themes that I find particularly interesting. But that's because I'm an institutionalist. These are questions that have a typical classical institutional impact, while the institutional story is, of course, much wider than that. The institutional is in everything. There was a small debate today in the Flemish Parliament about the windmills at sea. These windmills are placed in the sea and are therefore federal windmills, but it is Flanders that will have to ensure that the energy reaches land. That's a Flemish jurisdiction. Afterwards, a number of federal powers will be discussed again. I strongly question whether such questions will also be addressed on the dialogue platform. Do you think that the Flemish Government should also be empowered to keep nuclear power stations open? This applies to all possible themes. Migration is such a great concern for many people. Do you think that the Länder should be able to pursue their own migration policy? Will such questions also be addressed, or will the exercise only remain in the classical institutional questions? Then I'm really afraid this is a missed opportunity. The institutional state is not separate, it is not even the reverse of a medal. It's all the same side of a medal. Everything is connected: tax, social, economic and social. That's the institutional. We really must stop making an artificial distinction in this respect. Do we as a Parliament have a role and place in this? Do we get to see the questions in advance? Can we organise an exchange of views in the Chamber before the whole project is launched? Or will it be the government's black box, which will only be revealed in the first quarter of next year, when dee exercise will begin? We should also be able to discuss this. Parliament must be able to express its opinion on this. This could strengthen the dynamism you want to put into the market, around thematic working groups and so on, and the role of Parliament. It can only improve the credibility of the exercise. Mrs Verlinden can only invite the Chamber to work ambitiously with the thematic working groups. Minister Clarinval says the government is willing to assist Parliament. That should also apply to Mrs Verlinden. Replies to previous interviews and the memorandum to the Council of Ministers literally state that the thematic working groups and the dialogue will be addressed to the Council of Ministers by the Ministers for Institutional Affairs in another note. At that time, it was announced to the Council of Ministers that you yourself would come forward with a note on this matter. Does that note exist? Can we get it? Can it be communicated transparently? How exactly will that be dealt with? What exactly do you expect from Parliament? This is Parliament's exercise, but according to Minister Clarinval, the government is available to support the process, even if Parliament has to do it. It is logical that Parliament should do so, but where exactly is this support coming from? After all, I do not see a lot of dynamism emerging in Parliament. It would be interesting to see if you can create that dynamic. I would also like to say very explicitly that it will not be a lack of enthusiasm on the part of Mr Calvo. Which brings me to the last, the chips. I find it strange that this issue is being discussed here. For you, the dialogue platform is the totality of the exercise, I know that. But in that case, I think your full policy paper is the dialogue platform. Anyway, it's being discussed here, so I'd like to ask you a few questions. On 6 October 2021, we were able to read in the press that a commission would be given to the administrations that week to produce chips about where the complexity is, what is not working properly and so on. I assume that instruction has been given in the meantime. You yourself say that the results will be presented to the Council of Ministers for the first time on 24 November, I believe. But I can tell by the reaction that I didn't listen properly. So can you clarify that for me? But most of all, my question is whether the instruction has been given, what exactly is in it and whether we can get it. Why was the instruction given so late? Earlier we had heard that the interministerial committee had already decided to make the exercise much earlier. In fact, I think that the Flemish administrations have already moved a long way in this direction. Is it correct that the instruction was given only in October 2021? Why not earlier, if this was discussed before? In the Consultation Committee of 8 September 2021, the procedure was agreed on how Land Parliaments can contact federal administrations and how information can be exchanged. Internal operating rules would also be agreed by government. So I'm assuming that's what happened at federal level. Can we look at those operating rules? Can there be transparency about this? When will the chips be here? Apparently, it's not on November 24, 2021. I assume that this information will immediately be shared transparently with Parliament. At least we're looking forward to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic624x.u4	Madam President, I would like to thank the two ministers for their comprehensive explanation. I will try to speak with the same passion as Mr Loones, but a little shorter. Let us say that my appreciation of this is somewhat different from that of Mr Loones, although we certainly share the passion for the matter. Firstly, as far as the formula of the exchange of views is concerned, I think that the detailed explanation given by the Ministers has just shown that this formula is valuable. I think it would be better to first hear what the situation is and to be able to respond to it, then to ask the questions again, and then to get the answer we received at the beginning of the session. I therefore welcome the way the exchange of views works and hope that this will remain. Of course, Mr Loones and others should be given the opportunity to ask specific questions in addition to the exchange of views, but I agree with the method of exchange of views, unless it is essential to allow Parliament to speak first. For me that is not fetish, I find it more interesting to relate to the current state of affairs. It was explained in detail by the two ministers. I hope that M.O. holds. I would add, however, to Mr Loones that a certain rhythm of the exchange of views is important in order to keep the legitimacy of the exercise as great and as strong as possible. For example, I think that an exchange of views on the online survey would be a good deal. This way one keeps the interplay. I have suggested through the committee that the members of the Scientific Committee should be involved. I understand that the state of affairs does not require this today and therefore do not mind that they are not present today, but I think that is interesting for another session. It is not for Parliament to formally give the green light to the question, that is not the intention. However, I believe that a subsequent exchange of views on the online survey would be a good way of working together. Secondly, I will not build up my explanatory statement on the basis of the public contract, because I am different from Mr Loones, but I would like to mention communication in a separate point. According to Minister Clarinval's statement, the intention is to personally invite all Belgians plus-16 by letter to participate in the survey. At least I understood it that way, Mr Minister, but if you contradict it now, I am sparing my enthusiasm. If it's a possibility, I think it's a good idea. The public contract for communication has not yet been awarded, so you cannot pre-empt the entire communication campaign, but I thought you had announced it. In any case, I think it is a very good idea to send a very broad formal invitation to all compatriots over 16. If no decision has yet been taken, Minister, I would at least encourage you to examine that possibility. Such a survey does not take place often, now actually for the first time. I hear scepticism from some of my colleagues, but I do not share that scepticism. I do have some concerns. The concern as to whether enough people will participate can be tackled by really inviting all Belgians personally for participation once. It seems to me to be the best way to make it clear that the survey is intended for everyone. This matter belongs to and to everyone, not only to MPs or party presidents. If there is a possibility of inviting all Belgians by letter, I am therefore happy to see that happen. My third point concerns the interplay between online and physical. With regard to the mandate of the Chamber, you rightly say that the homework needs to be done here. However, I believe that there may be a possibility, as I put forward in my question, of integrating something physical, something deliberative, or having it combined with the online survey. In my question I suggest the possibility of a deliberative process among the participants in the online survey, but I understand any objections to that suggestion. Among other things, the fact that people should be given the opportunity to participate anonymously is an objection that can be formulated. It might also create some confusion between the online process and the parliamentary follow-up with the joint committees. That deliberative process is therefore not fetish for me, but at the same time I would regret that so many people are mobilized and that it only happens online. An alternative could be to organize, for example, a physical moment in each province during the duration of the survey, where people can first talk to each other and then fill out the questionnaire. This is a formula that also meets an ambition set out in the coalition agreement to organise meeting times not only in the Rue de la Loi, but also in a decentralised, on tour. That's literally in the coalition agreement. The advantage of this formula is that people are allowed to talk to each other before they fill in their highly personal opinions online. It is also a way to close the digital divide, because people who may not have a smartphone or laptop at home are given a moment and a place to fill in the survey. I'm not married to a particular type of work. I also hear the objections about, for example, the deliberation, the anonymous filling in and the clarity about the follow-up. I think that a survey on tour, with a real dialogue around the questions and people meeting, can be a valuable element of such a process that can perfectly trace together with the form of an online survey. Finally, I had announced that I was co-chairing with Mr Loones, but I think I am sinning against that intention, for which I apologise. You'll remain diplomatic, and I'll try to stay diplomatic for the time being. Mr Loones, you say that the government's intentions have been delayed. It doesn't bother me. There have been other things in recent years, and I think it is very logical that Mrs Verlinden has had a lot of other things to do in recent years than to launch public tenders for this formula. Moreover, I have always warned against haste, so I do not mind that we are taking our time for this. The problem is that I am trying to be diplomatic, but I will be less diplomatic than the two ministers in the fact that the Chamber has still not done anything with the question put by the government in a formal letter to consider what the Chamber can do in that process. I understand that it is part of the normal game of majority and opposition to challenge ministers about their achievement, but that is not the problem. The problem is that the question put by the government to the Chamber is still unanswered today. I am getting very nervous about this in all honesty, because we are talking all the time about what the Chamber is not allowed to do. That is very much in our political system, unfortunately with the current majority too. However, if there is one question asked to the Chamber in April or May, you have the date of the letter called "to enable joint committees and to experiment with deliberative processes, then it does not go into that. Today we allow two ministers to tell us that we are not doing our homework. I really don't get it. The most important part of the dialogue platform that has not yet been established is homework for the Chamber: for the Constitutional Commission, for the Conference of Presidents, for the group chairmen, for interested members of Parliament. You m'en fous who picks it up, but someone has to pick it up. Let it be the last exchange of views in which Minister Verlinden and Minister Clarinval should ask us what Parliament is going to do in the framework of the dialogue platform. It is the second time they have come here to say that, and I do not think that should happen a third time. So if there is a delay somewhere, it is up to the Chamber, not the ministers there was a little delay, but that is normal in a pandemic, which means that the ministers have a lot of work to do. However, it stands still in the Chamber. So let us quickly make this change of rules possible and quickly articulate the coherence of the online survey of Minister Verlinden and Minister Clarinval and how Parliament will respond to it afterwards. I have already made proposals on this, but it does not have to be my proposal. However, the standstill is gradually unacceptable. If we want to question both ministers with some credibility, then we must also do our homework. There's a lot of work to be done in that area.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic624x.u5	Madam Secretary, I will do my best not to repeat myself. That's not my habit, and that doesn't add up. I agree with Mr Calvo that an exchange of views can be very useful as long as we get answers to all our questions. I hope you will both visit the committee very regularly to answer all the Community questions. I share the concern about the shift in timing. I wonder if this will be feasible. It's the second time the start is pushed up. First it was said September, then December, and now Minister Clarinval says it will be the first quarter of 2022. We will see whether that is feasible or not. Many questions have already been answered, but I also have a number of questions that have not yet been answered. It is reported that there were technical problems with the platform Mijnopinie. Minister Clarinval has confirmed that they are working with that platform. Were there any technical problems? Are they fixed? I would have liked clarification on this. Why is Parliament not involved in the choice of questions? The choice of question is essential. The way in which a question is asked is very decisive for the answers. That is also true with referenda. How will the questions be put to the citizen? Why does Parliament not get a say in this? This is important for the objectivity of the choice of questions and the wording. Parliament can certainly play a useful role in its prior control. Mr Loones rightly asked who decides what will be included in the report and what will not. Nor is it entirely clear to me whether artificial intelligence still plays a role in the processing of the answers. More specifically, the intention is to exclude prejudice, discrimination and unstandardized statements. What exactly is that supposed to mean? How does that work? I didn't get an answer to that either. The questions that Mr Loones has already asked, I shall skip, but I would like to come back to them. Madam Minister, we have heard from you in a press release that by 30 November public administrations will have to report the problems of the current division of powers through bottlenecks. That information will be exchanged according to a particular procedure. The exchange procedure agreed upon and what happens to the sheets is still not quite clear after your statement earlier. I have also asked several times whether the sheets will also be shared with Parliament. That makes sense. You yourself set up the Joint Committee on Chamber and Senate to evaluate the past state reforms. That committee was set up with the reference to the institutional part of the coalition agreement. Those sheets may also be of great importance to that committee, since they will list those bottlenecks in the current division of powers in the light of the evaluation of the past state reforms, which is exactly what she is tasked with. By the way, you attribute contempt to the opposition to the Joint Committee, but I can agree with Mr Loones that we are doing our best to increase the ambition there, given the very limited number of issues that are being discussed there. Colleagues Loones pointed out that the issue of the labour market had not been taken into account. Unfortunately, the financial picture, not insignificant throughout the discussion, is not mentioned either. I can assure you that I, as rapporteur, follow up very well and that the sheets would be very useful for the work of the committee. Will they therefore be available to Parliament? Does each administration, each entity, deliver separate chips? Or is it the intention of each working group to achieve the integration of different sheets or consensus across all entities? Another open question concerns the administrative working groups. The relationship with the political components is, of course, not insignificant. Are their work first validated and, if necessary, updated by the various governments before the results are released, or will they not? I'm very curious about that, too. The question of which thematic working groups will be set up and its composition was answered by the Consultative Committee on 24 November, inter alia, in terms of composition and themes. We'll follow up on that. I would like to add one more point. When it comes to all the issues and questions that will be addressed in the dialogue platform, I ask that this should not be abused as a trash can for matters that the government does not even touch. Minister Clarinval said that the question will also be raised in specific cases. Let me give you a concrete example. I have already asked the successive Prime Ministers about the arrangement whereby former ministers can still call on staff. When I questioned Prime Minister De Croo in June, his answer was that such an important issue would be addressed in a dialogue platform. The opinion of all 16+ citizens had to be sought on this before the government would deal with it. I mentioned that at the time, because the government did not reach an agreement. A few weeks ago, this suddenly appeared in a budget table. It has been knocked off and the consultation of the public through the dialogue platform on this matter is suddenly no longer important. That is a good thing, not through the dialogue platform at all. I can guess the opinion of the large population without questioning. As a result of this specific example, I would like to ask you to ensure that the dialogue platform is not abused in order to provide a quick response and to move things that do not belong there.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic624x.u6	I thank Mr. and Mrs. Minister for their presentation. Many things have been said. However, I will react to come back with a few questions. You have concluded by saying that, of course, the House must move forward on a series of provisions that have not yet been implemented today. In that regard, I agree with my colleague Kristof Calvo with regard to the work of the joint chamber and Senate committee. In fact, the question is the problem! It's not that there's brakes! Today, the concern is that this committee does not have a very strong ambition to have an evaluation. Normally, that is what this is about: a real and real evaluation of the previous reforms. Discussions continue to focus on the future. For example, the bosses of the different administrations: they have a political vision and will not dare to question the choices made earlier. This is only indicative of the way in which the work is carried out. Let's recognize it: you have to call a cat a cat and you have to change the method because at present it is locked by the majority. It's in connection with the government. I had to make it clear by hearing you, minister, comment and give your opinion and impression on the matter, because you are involved in the work. In view of your presentation today and in relation to the platform, (unless I am mistaken, for I had consulted for the Scientific Committee the Royal Decree of 29 June 2021), if any element has escaped me (and if that is indeed the case, please excuse me!) on the establishment of this Scientific Committee, the Royal Decree takes up the various aspects concerning the method. You mentioned it and I won't come back to it. On the other hand, I would like to know the constitution of this Scientific Committee. What are the ten members that are part of it? Was it published somewhere? I may have missed it. In that case, all my apologies! I would like to turn to the core of what I would like to highlight here, by hearing you. You explained the three types of public procurement, the deadlines, the way it was going to be done. But what strikes me is the way in which you, very quickly, referred to a thematic list in the annex, as you said. We will talk about institutional reforms, about democratic renewal. All this is very vague and vague. All this leaves a huge field in the ability to select some themes and not others. I would also like to take this opportunity to refer once again to this government agreement, which both provides for a platform for dialogue, for exchanges with citizens, for evaluations, but which at the same time specifically locks in the fact of regionalizing the competence of health. It's written black and white in the government agreement. I'm sorry to tell you how paradoxical and contradictory it is to say both that we are undertaking a consultation procedure, that we are going to evaluate things, and that we are going to talk about efficiency! All these are words. But in fact, the government agreement provides for a regionalization of health care and I find that it is obviously not acceptable to lock things up like this in advance while making it appear that there is a listening and a dialogue with the citizens. This is a major point that I would like to hear from you today. Is it a question here of having a discussion without taboos, without locking up the themes that would be discussed in anecdotally and lightly, but really leaving room for all the major themes? We saw it with the covid, health is a major theme for citizens. Professor Vlieghe, an infectious scientist, spoke of Killing Factor, for the whole problem of repeated ping-pongs between levels of power. It is a major node on which citizens have very interesting things to say. I want to bring you here to state that Health will be, among other themes, at the heart of this dialogue, without taboos. It is a matter of working in a completely different way than the one mentioned in the government agreement, with this regionalization of health written black on white. One thing I care about is that this platform of dialogue with citizens is not fascidism. We must not pretend and stop at issues that would be of interest only to the government. All questions must be open, in all senses, by approaching things not in a political way but in a real dialogue, without taboo, with scientific support to ensure that the method is correct and that the explanations given can lead everyone to understand the ins and outs and to be able to position themselves on a series of questions. Open questions will also have to be allowed that will allow for production work. Let the collective intelligence function and deploy to the maximum extent possible. The main challenge will be to avoid fascidism. On the contrary, there will need to be a real dialogue on all the issues without making any selection. You will have understood the points on which I want you to clarify the things and points on which we will be extremely attentive in the coming weeks. We will also pay attention to how you will translate the elements expressed today through public procurement and through the issues and themes that will be addressed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic624x.u7	Madam President, I shall begin and my colleague will of course be able to shed some light on the issues. Many questions had already been asked and I had answered them in my speech. I'm going to insist on some of them. First of all, I will start with Mr Loones' question about the hearing of scientists. In fact, in the Scientific Committee there is no spokesperson; there is no representative speaking on behalf of the others. Annelies Verlinden and I are the presidents. They are also subject to a reserve duty. There is a great diversity among these experts. They have different skills and not necessarily shared by many of them. It is up to ministers to speak on behalf of the Scientific Committee. I do not think it is possible to appoint a spokesperson other than the two ministers. As regards the choice of criteria, they are the same as those decided in the framework contract. I don't have them here with me but memory, there's 30% of the price, there's the method, the quality. It will be these criteria that will be used for the choice of the company that will take the market over the communication. As far as Parliament's role is concerned, I think that Mr Calvo has responded well in our place. Parliament has an important role to play. I believe it is essential for Parliament to take up its role, but as far as the drafting of the questions and what can be called the preliminary phase are concerned, there is no provision for Parliament to intervene in this part. More generally, many of you have asked questions about the topics. They have been determined by the Government and are annexed to the specifications. They will, of course, be able, because they are not definitive, to evolve first of all in the dialogue that we will have with the company that will win the market, but also with the experts who will also be able to position themselves and ultimately, the government will decide and take on the topics perhaps even more detailed than what we have here, with topics that we have not mentioned. This procedure will be used to identify topics. This is not yet a definitive list, let it be clear! For non-theme interventions, as I said earlier, we will be able to deal with them separately in the same way. The interventions that will be taken into account will be mainly those that will be in the themes and that will respect the charter that has been decided upon. Mrs Fonck, on the same subject, the thematic list, I replied. It is annexed to the specification. As far as the cards are concerned, Mrs Verlinden will answer you more specifically. Mr Calvo, I am sorry to disappoint your enthusiasm, but we do not have the budget to send a letter to all 16-year-olds. If I had, I'm sure you would have blamed me for getting that back. Unfortunately, we don't have the budget. On the other hand, I confirm that from the age of 16, all young people will be able to participate in this democratic process. It's still major and interesting. They will have the opportunity to express themselves, but we will not write to them individually. With regard to the possibility of integrating a deliberative debate, attention was paid to the use of paper. I myself come from a rural area where there are not always digital opportunities to express myself. I also recently met with the Braille League, which asked me to speak on paper. There will therefore be the possibility, for example for the Braille League which asked for it explicitly but also for other people in areas less well served by the networks, to be able to express themselves on paper. This will, of course, be taken into account officially. There is no provision for deliberative debate, nor for a tour of the provinces. Perhaps some of you will do so to encourage people to participate. It would be an idea to dig. Mrs Pas, on the MyOpinion platform, yes, indeed, there have been technical problems and I have mentioned them. According to my information, a debate was held this week in Parliament in the Petitions Committee to explicitly address this issue of technical problems. I am told that it was resolved or at least on the way to being resolved. I hope this will not happen again. In relation to the role of artificial intelligence (AI), here, the external provider, to implement semantic analysis, will need AI to value all the wealth of individual and collective contributions that have been made. AI can be used to provide outputs in a synthesis report as well as in a visualization tool. This will allow an analysis of the diversity of all the opinons that have been given. It is a technical tool that will be used to be as representative as possible of the richness of the interventions, at least we hope so. The cards will be for Mrs. Verlinden. As far as the co-workers of the former ministers are concerned, you are right to say that a decision has been taken within the framework of the budgetary conclave. This case is progressing. But don't see any connection to the online platform! Mrs. Fonck, you're right. In fact the June 29 kernkabinet does not include the list of experts. We can send it to you as an annex. It seems to me that you were already handed it over to the last meeting. It was not in this royal decree that she appeared, but in another. If you want, I'll send you the list today or tomorrow. I think I've answered the questions. Here are the supplements to my answers, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic624x.u8	Madam President, first of all I will answer Mr Loones' questions. Mr Loones, if I am not mistaken, you referred in your speech to a number of other points for this exchange of views, including points on labour market policy. We had already decided and promised to discuss a number of other discussions later in this committee, for example asymmetric policy and health care. So this is an answer to your concern to have an exchange of views on this matter. I can tell you I'm looking forward to it. This is certainly not the end of the debate. Mr Clarinval has answered most of the questions regarding the public contract for the online platform. As regards the questions put by Mr Loones and Mrs Pas on the thematic working groups, the Consultative Committee agreed in principle on 8 September to involve the staff of the public services and to set up an interfederal administrative task force for this purpose. As Mrs Pas pointed out, the proposal on the composition, working methods and themes for the thematic working groups and the task force is the subject of a discussion of the Consultation Committee on 24 November. So it is still a little too early to give detailed information about it, but that will certainly be followed up. Mr Loones, you asked when the bottlenecks would be delivered. On 8 September, the Consultative Committee decided to request the bottlenecks from the administrations concerned by 30 November, which is still valid today. That instruction was given yesterday by the Prime Minister. It is important to stress that the Chancery of the Prime Minister is responsible for coordinating the retrieval of that information. For further questions, please contact the Prime Minister. We will, of course, continue to follow that up. I come to the public services that would be questioned. As far as the federal government is concerned, it concerns the committees of the presidents of all the PPS and FPS, the parastatals and the institutions of social security. It is therefore these institutions which are covered by the federal government who have been asked to provide the information. We asked them to get us the chips by November 30th. You also had a question about the internal rules of operation of the task force. I can only say that in principle it is done according to the government's own rules. As far as the federal government is concerned, it is up to each member of the government to ask and answer questions. It follows the traditional rules used for this work and therefore does not require a separate internal operating rules to be agreed. As far as my answers on the dialogue platform are concerned, I suspect that you still have a number of questions, but I think I have already given some impetus to most of the nine or ten themes I had noted for you. Mr Calvo, you indicated in your statement that it was an interesting exchange of views. I agree with that, I certainly do. As has already been said, a few more will follow. Mr Clarinval replied to the invitations. I would like to add that it is the intention to communicate as widely as possible. I share your view that we need to reach as many people as possible with the communication about the online search. As already explained, it would cost a good deal to send everyone an individual letter about it. There are also certain sensitivities in this area. However, the task of the communication agency, which we have allocated a budget for, will be to communicate as widely as possible in order to reach everyone. As far as the online and physical events of the survey are concerned, you referred in that connection to the decentralised meeting moment.................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The federal government is looking at how we can work with the municipalities. Not everyone has a computer at home, but we could think about information kiosks in libraries. For example, people could come to those decentralised points to fill out the online search. For the record, we are also looking at this together with an external partner who will accompany us here. However, I think it is a good suggestion, from the point of view of reaching as many people as possible. Mrs Pas, as far as the question of moving timing is concerned, you may know that there is occasional adjustment in public procurement, but I am hopeful that we will be able to move forward. The necessary preparations have been made. As I said, we want to do this right. We're working on that right now. I think I have answered your questions about the fact sheets, which were similar to those of Mr Loones. You also had a number of specific questions on the subject, which will be dealt with in detail and whether each administration will draw up them separately. The aim of these data sheets is to draw up an overview of the bottlenecks in each area of competence, as presented by the administrations, on the basis of a survey carried out by all public administrations. This is how they feed the thematic working groups and then the political dialogue. In this sense, this dialogue platform is a dome that, as Mr Loones said, covers far more than just the online survey. What the administrations and governments are doing is part of the answer, as are the thematic working groups and then the political dialogue. This dialogue will have to follow all that input, after listening carefully to what the various partners are saying, both citizens and civil society. I can answer your question as to whether the administrations are drawing up the data sheets separately, and I can say that they are actually intended to be drawn up. Whether they are politically validated is a question that must be partly answered by the Länder concerned. I repeat that it is the intention to make it an official exercise. If one wishes to validate them politically, then that could be possible. That's not entirely out of the question. However, we will not impose on the Länder what they should do with it. The aim, however, is to put the bottlenecks on the table from the experience of the administrations. Today's approach to making the sheets available is that this is a work of the government on its own initiative and that this involves the ministers of institutional reform, as well as the members of the IMC Institutional Reform. Today it has not been decided to inform Parliament of this too. However, I would like to make a move. Article 8 of the Rules of Procedure of the Joint Committee Kamer-Senaat provides that the Joint Committee may decide to provide the Federal Government and the governments of the federated entities with their memo in writing. So, with that road, I've already set you on the path. It may also be possible to give an impetus. I certainly don't agree with your suggestion that the online platform is the trash can for anything the government doesn't want to discuss. Perhaps you didn't mean it that way. We're looking for a hard balance in that online search, to make it comprehensible for anyone who needs to fill it out. There is no point in expecting a very technical response from the people on every small detail, and we must be realistic in this. However, we do want the survey to be sufficiently representative to explain the future of our country for the coming years. The balance is thus sought. That is why we are being accompanied by external experts, to do some good. It's an evolutionary process. If we had already knocked off all the questions today, we would probably have had another debate here in committee. However, the intention is there and the questions will be drawn up on the basis of that ambition. I don't know if there were any other questions from Mrs. Fonck. Mr Clarinval replied with regard to the establishment of the Scientific Committee. You also had a question about the list of topics to be discussed at the online platform. We are not going to renegotiate the government agreement: where the government has already made choices, we are not going to renegotiate them. This does not mean that we create taboos, but we must find the balance between the details requested and the preparation of our country's future. We do not want to question the choices already made by the government. As for the online platform, Mr Clarinval has already said that there is a need for a real dialogue, as you have also pointed out. This platform is therefore only a beginning, I can only stress the repeated request by Mr Calvo. We have invited Parliament to examine the innovative forms of deliberation. The aim will be to have a real dialogue on the future of our country. The online platform will enable initiatives to be launched that can be followed up by other initiatives in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic624x.u9	Madam President, I will try to be very brief for a change. I do not want to repeat myself, but I want to make some final remarks. Mr Calvo, first of all, I understand your surprise. I'm really looking at you with big eyes. Parliament has made a major announcement that all kinds of things would happen, but nothing is happening. I'm still waiting for a call, too, but I can tell nothing's gonna happen. Nobody pulls the cart. I can only call on all the members of the majority to take the task to heart. It seems to me to be obvious that you, too, are playing a role in this and taking up the glove. Secondly, Mr Calvo, I think you are putting the government out of the wind a little too easily. You say that the big problem lies not with the government, but with the fact that Parliament is not doing its job. I agree that Parliament can be more ambitious, but I do not agree that the government can be completely dismissed. In all my explanations, I would like to make the fundamental point that a government is reliable. Those who create expectations must meet them. A set timing must be respected. We all know that there is a corona pandemic, but that was already known when the timing of September was put forward, as was the timing of November-December. I have a problem with that. This form of governance is less mine, but such matters also undermine the credibility of the whole project. Mr Calvo, I assume you are concerned about that. A somewhat loose atmosphere is beginning to emerge around it. Is it gonna be there now, and if so, when? This reduces the dynamics, and I regret that. Madam Minister, Minister, taking up what Mr Calvo says, I still have questions about the role of Parliament. Minister Clarinval, you mention the role of Parliament not only important, but even fundamental. That's the word I wrote down. If, however, we ask for a word about the drafting of the questions, you will answer that we cannot do so. We know from the press that the sixth theme has not yet been definitively adopted. You also say that there is still flexibility in the questions. It will continue to be discussed with the person taking up the assignment, and experts will also be able to make suggestions. Why experts, but not Parliament? I think that's weird. Secondly, at least the impression has been given that there would be a hearing with the Scientific Committee. I understand that's not possible because of the hierarchy and so on. Okay, that's right now. I would like to rephrase the question. The second public contract, in particular the semantic analysis, deals mainly with the computer handling of the questions and the artificial intelligence part. I call for an understanding of this and for openness to be created as to how this is to be done. Just let those men and women here give a presentation on how the system works. How exactly will the semantic analysis happen? The less that information is veiled, the more credible your project is. Do it here in Parliament and create openness about it. Please make sure that these people are able to come here as soon as the public contract is awarded. My third point is also about transparency with regard to Parliament. Mrs Verlinden, it is nice that you mention a procedural trick to bring the thematic sheets to Parliament. You know that's what we're gonna do. We will ask for that information. We've done that ten times and we'll keep doing it. Why don't you come to Parliament proactively with that? I really do not understand that, especially when Minister Clarinval starts his speech by saying that Parliament's role is fundamental. Those are little things. If one knows that something will have to be done, one better take it to heart and take it proactively. It can only be a suggestion.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic624x.u10	Madam President, once again I make a promise to be brief, although I may not be able to deliver on that promise. Firstly, I understand what Minister Clarinval is saying about the scientific committee. I also appreciate the honesty of his answer. Mr. Secretary, you're not spinning around. You say that we can go to you if we want to know anything about the functioning of the Scientific Committee. The committee works on your orders, has no hierarchy and no spokespersonship. That's fine with me. You have recruited experts according to certain appointments and you and the course should not change the route because there are difficult questions. You say you'll take on the difficult questions. That's clear. A new exchange of views for the final launch online would be a good idea. Then you will also have the opportunity to respond to some of our concerns and to indicate how you have taken into account the input of the Scientific Committee. I agree with you that it is not up to Parliament to raise the questions, but a next meeting before the launch can help to increase the legitimacy of the exercise. I hope we can count on the opposition to look at this with an open eye. That is part of the cooperation. Mrs Pas and Mr Loones must also show openness to recognise that the work in this committee is interesting and that their questions on artificial intelligence have been adequately answered. If these questions are answered, I hope that they will also be at peace with those answers and not undermine the exercise beforehand and undermine its legitimacy. If we are to avoid this, an exchange of views with you, without members of the Scientific Committee, is essential before the launch. You will then have the opportunity to give insight into how that scientific input has been taken into account. I really understood that we were going to send a letter to everyone. That's not the case, apparently, too bad. That wouldn't really be green either. All Belgians write on paper is expensive and not good for the environment. There are undoubtedly other ways to reach many people. So let us really exhaust those alternatives. Mrs Verlinden mentioned the libraries in her reply. They are a meeting place of knowledge, debate and information anyway. I think that's a very good idea. I believe that there are other ways of working with local authorities. In my own city, I would be happy to open up the council room to give people the opportunity to learn about the survey and perhaps ask questions about it: what is meant by that question? A neutral notification is required. We need to give people the opportunity to exchange views in a safe context so that they can fill in the survey afterwards. It would therefore be a kind of collective process, before formulating individual opinions. You have said: thinking makes speaking speak, speaking reminds. Let us shape that within that process. For example, let us make an educational box available to the third degree of secondary education, so that one can talk in the classroom about the survey, to encourage young people to complete that survey. It doesn't have to be a letter. It might be a little old cabbage, and at least not green, to send everyone a letter. Let's park that idea. There are many other ideas to involve people. I shall then come to the role of Parliament. I believe that we do have homework in this area. On a number of points, we can strengthen the Joint Committee on Chamber and Senate. There is both scepticism from the majority and opposition. I can confirm that colleagues from the opposition are often very involved in that committee. That also makes sense, given their ideological beliefs. I believe that supplementing these three themes with other themes can help to make the exercise credible, to feed the institutional exercise. In addition, there are other themes in which the experiments must be given a place as a matter of urgency. To be continued, no doubt. It will certainly not be up to you, because you have made a very clear statement today. Both Minister Clarinval and Minister Verlinden have indicated that there is really a huge room for the Chamber to do things. I already put it more diplomatically, but the persistence has not changed. I welcome this exchange of views. I trust that we will soon organise a new exchange of views. I would like to call on colleagues from the Flemish Interest, but certainly from the N-VA, to give this process a chance. After all, what the largest Flemish party thinks is relevant. It can't be the vivaldi government survey. It must be the survey that inspires us all to change, deepen, strengthen our own beliefs. I see a real openness among the ministers to discuss this with us. That is why the next session before the launch is fundamental. The N-VA has so far been very sceptical about the survey. According to the N-VA, this matter is for Parliament, but I ask you to give the survey a chance. Of course, your conviction must also be respected, but I missed that in all honesty. As I miss the drive from a number of groups to work on the parliamentary aspect, I also miss the openness at the N-VA to give the survey a real chance. The whole country is being asked to form an opinion on these issues. You should embrace that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic624x.u11	Madam President, I thank the Ministers for their answers. Minister, you will send me the list for the membership of the Scientific Committee. I wanted to go back to the topics that have been annexed. I can't find the public market. Could you send us the documents? Minister, you said we were not going to change the government agreement. I asked the question about health in my speech. Will Health, yes or no, be integrated into this entire dialogue platform process? This is of interest to citizens. You have a duty of transparency and truth. So I ask you to answer yes or no.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic624x.u12	I would just like to reply briefly to Mr Calvo, because the question was asked explicitly. What bothers me is that an atmosphere is constantly being created that there is a big drive in the vivaldi group to make this a big project, but what we see above all are many slogans and beautiful language, deadlines that are not being met, projects that are not coming and information that is not being delivered to Parliament. On the other hand, a number of opposition MEPs want to raise the level of ambition. I've already asked dozens of questions, probably to your annoyance, but it's your job, and you'll welcome me and appreciate me asking those questions. I do not think it is right that we should create the atmosphere as if we were opposed to it, just as I find it strange to hear your speech that Parliament is failing, when everyone knows that you are one of the supporting forces of that dialogue platform, especially on the side of Parliament. I do not understand why the atmosphere of opposition always has to sneak in between the lines. I think that is a missed opportunity, especially when reaching out. I think that's a little weird.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic624x.u13	I don't want any misunderstandings about my positions. I was not concerned with the involvement of Mr Loones, and not even of the Flemish Interest Group in these issues. They are particularly productive, ask many questions, are very present in the committee, both in the Chamber and in the Senate. I have noted, from the first minute that the dialogue platform, and in particular the online survey, was launched, that the N-VA, for example, was rather sceptical about this. My question at that point is to give the process a chance. The ministers show in difficult circumstances, with the pandemic, that they take that process seriously. We need to be able to work together on this. I am very clear about Parliament. I wouldn't say that so outspoken if it were to go smoothly. Things aren't going as smoothly as I'd like right now. That's certainly not just a hobby of mine. Many groups have a desire to work on this, even within the majority. It is now important to fill in the role of the Chamber and to reply to the letter sent by the government to the Chamber in spring.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic624x.u14	Madam President, since I have asked a question which requires only yes or no as an answer, I imagine that the ministers will be able to answer me.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic624x.u15	Madam President, I would like to repeat several times the same answers to the same questions, but this may take a long time. First of all, I recall the government agreement that is very clear. It's not new because it's been over a year now. I would also like to remind you that my colleague, Annelies Verlinden, has just answered this question clearly. So there is no reason why we should try to get different answers to the same question from both of us. We are quite on the same page. I would like to remind you that the procedure for the topics is under way. The list, which you have not yet been able to read but which will be sent to you soon, has been annexed to the specifications. The winning company, as well as the experts, will be discussed and the government will decide at the end the list of issues. I can't be clearer, Mrs. Fonck. My personal opinion doesn't have much interest.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic624x.u16	That concludes our debates, Mrs. Fonck. I imagine you will come back with questions in our future debates. I thank the ministers and all the colleagues who have been willing to conduct this exchange. I suggest that you turn now to the oral questions on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic624x.u17	Madam President, I assume that we will discuss the planning of the work of the Constitutional and Institutional Renewal Commission at the next committee meeting. We have heard a number of proposals today, including Mr Calvo's question to have another exchange of views. I think we can do that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic624x.u18	Mr Loones, your question relates to the idea launched by Mr Coens to possibly inspire a future state structure on the characteristics of the Swiss state structure. For specific questions on this subject, please contact my party chairman, because, as the minister responsible for institutional reform, I can only say that this is a proposal that stimulates and enriches the debate from that point of view, but that this is by no means a prelude to the outcome of the debate that we will be able to discuss in all its richness and with all the diversity we have just discussed. As far as your questions about the government's ambition for state reform are concerned, there is a bridge to the debate we have just had. As you know, the government agreement included that the government will prepare proposals in the form of legislative texts on the division of powers, the financing rules of the institutions and so on. These proposals may be submitted to the Council of State for an opinion following the Government's agreement. It is also foreseen that this government wishes to integrate legislative texts on a more homogeneous division of competences in the field of health care during the legislative period. I quote literally the coalition agreement. The aim is to ensure that care is as close to the patient as possible, without affecting solidarity funding. These elements will form the starting point for what we are doing. As for your question as to whether the other government parties are still in favour of this, I have no indication that there are government partners who would no longer support the institutional reform part of the coalition agreement. Of course, the debate must continue, but so far there is no indication of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic624x.u19	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I fully agree with you that model 2 + 2 stimulates and enriches the debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic624x.u20	Madam Secretary, I can summarize my question very briefly. You just literally read the coalition agreement. On health care, the government agreement states that legislative texts will be integrated during the current legislative period. How do you define the words "integrating texts"?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic624x.u21	Madam Secretary, I agree. You quoted from the coalition agreement. The government agreement also states that health care is not so much a policy that the government wants to pursue in that branch, but that health care would be homogenised towards the state level. It says literally: "In any event, the government wishes to integrate legislation on a more homogeneous division of competences in the field of health care during this legislature. The aim is to ensure that care is as close to the patient as possible, without affecting solidarity funding." Madam Secretary, why is health care eligible for asymmetric federal policy? If that is the case, will the government abandon its intention to defederalise health care during the current legislature? If not, what steps have already been taken in this respect? What is the government's time frame for achieving that point in the coalition agreement? To what extent and how do you intend to involve the opposition? As has been mentioned here on several occasions, certain majorities are needed, including a majority in the Dutch language group and even a two-thirds majority, if a state reform plan is to be implemented. So I think it would be useful to involve everyone in the dossier in order to achieve the required majorities. I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic624x.u22	Mr Loones, Mrs Pas, we have already quoted all three of them from the coalition agreement. We have come to this provision because health policy is not working properly and cannot meet citizens' needs due to the fragmentation of powers between the federal government and the communities. It is clear that this fragmentation makes decision-making difficult and that the policy choices we have to make require a lot of time, energy and public resources, precisely because there is a need to coordinate between the federal government and the Länder. In the literature on federalism, it is pointed out that when representatives of different levels have to pursue a common policy with a different vision, the costs and time involved are likely to escalate, thus making it more difficult to pursue an efficient policy. That's the well-known joint decision trap. To date, we have experienced what this means, including in the covid pandemic. In order to provide adequate and effective care based on the needs of citizens, the pillars of our health system should therefore be able to be steered from a central vision of health care and a single policy. The diversity of care needs, care culture and policy preferences in the north and the south make re-federalisation not desirable. A re-federalisation would also assume that at federal level a modus vivendi should be found between the representatives of the different parts of the country and also in the federal Parliament about the diversity of health care policies at Community level. This would, in our view, lead to endless blockages and a standstill in health policy. Moreover, a status quo is not desirable for the reasons I have just mentioned, so that the necessary instruments must be given to all those involved in order to implement a coherent and efficient policy that can answer current concerns and concerns. As stated in the coalition agreement, it is probably best ensured close to the people, so that the policy can fit in with what the people need. At the moment, the administration is being questioned. The same applies to health policy. This is also discussed in the Joint Committee and experts and policy actors are heard. No concrete agreement has yet been reached in the government on the method to be followed to achieve the homogenisation of health care. This method will be determined in consultation with the Prime Minister and Minister Clarinval. In any case, I will urge the Prime Minister to define the method and timing of the political dialogue on this issue. As for your question, Mr Loones, on the interpretation of the concept of the integration of legal texts, I can refer to the coalition agreement. It clearly states that we are preparing legislative texts and have the ambition to present them to the Legislative Department of the Council of State. The clock is ticking, and at least we're working on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic624x.u23	I am particularly pleased that you once again have the ambition of splitting up health care. I am also pleased that you consistently use the term communities. I find your answer on how that will happen double. For the integration of legal texts during this legislature, please refer to the coalition agreement. Texts are made and submitted to the Council of State. In addition, you say that there is still a method to be determined, together with Mr Clarinval and the Prime Minister. Either the coalition agreement is clear and then the method has been determined, or it is not yet, and it has yet to be done. In that respect, I'm still a little hungry. We also know why. After all, this has not yet been fully negotiated.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic624x.u24	You are absolutely right in your analysis. The fragmentation isn't working. The corona crisis has shown this once more. You will certainly find a supporter in the Flemish interest to finally achieve the fourth resolution of 1999, the fully homogeneous competence in the field of health care. I wish you a great deal of courage for that government consultation. A few weeks ago, I read a statement by Mr Bouchez, who advocated a re-federalisation in the area of health care. You are right to say that this is not desirable. However, Mr Bouchez often makes statements which are not in line with the coalition agreement. I wish you the courage to realize something in that file.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic624x.u25	Madam President, Madam Minister, this is once again a question of definitions. Ever since I realized that we have been talking a little bit side by side around the dialogue platform and I didn't immediately see what it meant, I want to know exactly how we should define and read a number of things. These bundled questions deal with three definitions. First of all, how should we understand 'asymmetrical policy'? How do you define asymmetrical policies? In the coalition agreement there is a reference to place-based policies, but when I see what is being sold under the heading of asymmetric policy, that is really not right at all. During the debate on the State of the Union, reference was made to a lot of things that are happening in the field of labour market policy and that come at the request of the Flemish Government. The measures will be introduced throughout the Belgian territory, and yet it is being sold as an asymmetric policy. In my view, it's not. Asymmetric policy is place-based, for a certain part of the territory. It's not because a state asks it to be asymmetric. Therefore, it would be good to know how to define asymmetric policy. Second question: how do you define 'coordinate and support'? For some time now, Mr Pas and I have been asking you and the Prime Minister who is responsible for exactly what. With regard to the implementation of asymmetric policy choices, you refer to the trade ministers, while the Prime Minister refers to you for a piece. Now the Prime Minister says that it is the trade ministers who have to do it, but that you and Minister Clarinval have to coordinate and support it. Hence my question, how do you define 'coordinate and support'? What's your role in that? Is that also for a piece of guidance and pulling the cart? Or is it not, and has it gone down and waited for things to come? Just now, for the instruction given to the federal administration, you referred to the Prime Minister for further information. Personally, it seems to me to fall under the heading 'coordinate and support', but apparently I understand these words a little differently. Hence the question of how you define them. Finally, how do you define "after the summer"? We have already received different answers in this respect too. It was said that the sheets on asymmetric policies and so on will be requested and delivered after the Council of Ministers after the summer. We are almost November now, but well, in January we are of course still after the summer. That is why I wanted to know how best to read the words 'after the summer'.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic624x.u26	Madam President, Minister, I would like to quote one more time from the coalition agreement: "In order to meet the specific needs and dynamics of the various areas of the country, the federal government can use the opportunity to exercise its powers in an asymmetric manner according to the region concerned, the Community concerned or sub-region to which it relates." As Mr Loones has said, we have repeatedly asked not only the Prime Minister but also the various trade ministers for a state of affairs. They refer to you and Minister Clarinval, because you would coordinate. In his reply, the Prime Minister did not say 'after the summer', but even more specifically 'after the summer recess'. By then, you would draw up a report on the other ministers' proposals. Meanwhile, summer recess has been over for some time. What is the status of this file? Has the report already been prepared which the Prime Minister mentioned in his reply to my question? Can you give an overview of the asymmetric policies proposed by the various ministers? What initiatives are being taken in this area at legislative and executive level? If the report has already been drawn up, can Parliament get the report? If it hasn't been drawn up yet, when can we expect it? What is the further timetable and how will the procedure proceed? When will the matter be discussed by the Council of Ministers? Is it possible for individual ministers themselves to shape 'necessary legislative and executive initiatives' in their policy areas, or is this only possible after the full Council of Ministers has approved them? Should there be a longer procedure before that? When will the various ministers effectively implement these measures?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic624x.u27	Madam President, Mr Loones, Mrs Pas, your questions concern asymmetric policy. Mr Loones, you want us to understand each other well, which is commendable. That is why you want to define a number of concepts. For me, asymmetric policy is a policy tailored to the needs of the Länder, place-based politicians. That is not necessarily different, it can also be uniform. If needs in states are similar or similar, that could be uniform and still place-based politicians. It may also be that it is not so uniform, and then we can speak of different policies. You asked about the coordinating and supportive role. Certain elements we do and we have already done. You know that we have already sent letters to the trade ministers to invite them to explore the possibilities of asymmetric policy. First of all, of course, it is up to the relevant ministers to look at the initiatives they are taking. In the letter of 19 January, we invited them to prepare and shape the initiatives. It is very important to highlight the role of the Länder, which can also play an important role in this asymmetric policy, by taking initiative and consulting. They are well placed to point out and point out those points in their policies that could be strengthened, whether or not through an asymmetrical adaptation of federal legislation, and to address their federal colleagues on this issue when the implementation of partial policies requires an asymmetrical or non-asymmetric amendment of federal legislation. We can therefore agree that the Länder are an important link in the asymmetric policy chain. Of course, you are free to continue to question all other functionally competent ministers about the initiatives that have been taken. What exactly should be understood by 'coordinate and facilitate' seems difficult to me to put in a very restrictive list. We are doing everything we can to keep this issue on the agenda and to facilitate the debates. We also certainly use our staff in the cabinet to help shape the aforementioned points and make legal expertise available where there may be ideas for that asymmetric policy. Where support can be provided, we do so. I'm sure we'll cooperate. Mrs Pas, as far as your question on the state of play and the further steps are concerned, we have already received answers from two trade ministers, Mr Van Peteghem and Mr Mahdi. Moreover, on 14 October, my policy cell and this from Mr Clarinval sent an e-mail to all the heads of government in the government, recalling the letter of 19 January. We asked the trade ministers to give an overview by 15 November of the asymmetric policy and the representation of the Länder, as well as to identify potential points where asymmetric policies and additional representation of the Länder could be useful. We have also suggested to the trade ministers to identify potential issues on which the sub-state administrations could be questioned. It would also be possible to examine what questions the Länder have already asked in the past in order to adapt or not to include federal policy or representatives in federal bodies. That's where we made the move. As regards informing the Länder about the exercise currently under way, this is included in the notification of the Consultation Committee of 8 September. It refers to the passage from the federal government agreement and to the possibility for the federal government to exercise its powers in an asymmetrical manner. Mr Crevits has already put forward a number of concrete demands in the field of labour market policy, which has already been followed up. We talked about this during the budget negotiations that took place three weeks ago. The State of the Union clearly indicated how the federal government responded to the specific questions raised by the Flemish government. We have gone along with this on many points, such as the increased autonomy demanded by the Länder in terms of the availability of job seekers, the taxing of the contributions and training income granted by the Länder for disadvantaged professions, the accumulation of unemployment benefits with regional contributions, the transition routes and the demand for more training for the temporary unemployed or the possibility of converting a redundancy allowance into training. These were 15 concrete policy questions from the Flemish government that the federal government has addressed and where federal policy is better adapted to the needs of the Länder.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic624x.u28	Madam Secretary, I'm glad I asked the question. I'm just sorry I didn't ask the question earlier. I think it is commendable that federal policy should serve the needs of the Länder more. If the federal government can take on the questions and needs of the Länder, that is certainly the way forward, but that is not what we had meant by an asymmetric policy. During the negotiations at the stages led by the N-VA or Mr Vande Lanottte, the logic used was that in a given part of the territory there would be a different regulatory framework based specifically on very local needs. What you do is valuable, but something completely different. You say that federal policy is in line with the needs of the entire territory. We then have a different definition of asymmetry. Here, another dream was pierced. I will try to take that into account in my future questions. I think you have sent the questions to the wrong ministers about suggestions for an asymmetric policy, Madam Minister. It is good that you have questioned your federal colleagues, but on the basis of your reply I conclude that you should actually ask the state ministers what their needs are and what policies they believe the federal government should pursue in social, economic and social terms. That will be a very valuable exercise, but that is not an asymmetric policy as defined by Johan Vande Lanotte and not according to mine either.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic624x.u29	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. You are quite right to say that the Länder are a very important link in this and can play an important role. In a reply from Prime Minister Jambon to a question from my good colleague Chris Janssens on this matter, he stated that he had not received a formal question from the federal government to apply that asymmetric policy, nor a vision on the matter. That dates back some time ago. Perhaps that has already happened, but I think it would be very useful not only to ask the question to our own federal ministers, but also formally to the other side of the street. Now, as far as timing is concerned, 10 months ago, you asked your colleagues, the trade ministers, to examine the possibilities. You have now sent a reminder and put a concrete deadline on it, November 15th. The answer you are now giving shows that Minister Van Peteghem and Secretary of State Mahdi are the only ones who have responded. The reason I just had to laugh was that this fully confirms my conclusion that the enthusiasm of all the other parties is very small to implement this passage in the coalition agreement. My speaking time is limited, but I will give one example on the important issue of labour market policy. When I ask Minister Dermagne about the state of play of this report, I get the answer that he is prepared to think about it. However, he received that question from you 10 months ago. It would be bad if he were not prepared to think about it, because it is in the coalition agreement. There is no particular enthusiasm, so I must wish you good courage in this too, and hope that you will receive some more reports by 15 November.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic624x.u30	The coalition agreement states: "We are examining which federal administrative or management bodies may include additional representatives of the Länder in order to ensure greater synergy between policy levels."
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic624x.u31	Mrs Pas, I can answer your question briefly, as I can refer to answers to previous questions. On 19 January this year, we sent a letter to all the trade ministers, referring, in addition to the asymmetric policy, to the question of which federal administrative and management bodies could include additional representatives of the Länder with a view to greater synergy. We will follow up these questions with the competent trade ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic624x.u32	Madam Secretary, thank you for your very concise answer. Can I assume you haven't received a single report on this from a trade union minister? Maybe you should stick a deadline on that and send a reminder.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic624x.u33	Mrs. Pas, I'm taking your suggestion. We have received an answer from two trade ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic624x.u34	Madam Secretary, I think I can already guess which ministers are involved.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic624x.u35	The best.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic624x.u36	Madam President, Minister, I have heard that you have already answered these questions extensively to Mr Sigrid Goethals in the Committee on the Interior. You are certainly free to reply again, but I can accept the answer given there.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic624x.u37	Madam Secretary, we read mainly the French-speaking press. Depending on the newspaper, we know who talked. In La Libre Belgique talks the MR, in Le Soir de PS. Le Soir I believe a little more. In Le Soir, on 6 October, it was stated that after Easter, but in a more realistic scenario during the summer of 2022, an internal political debate within the government would start on institutional reform. The government would really look at what this legislature can do. You and Mr Clarinval would be instructed not only to prepare texts and bring them to the Council of State, the methods to which you referred in the coalition agreement, but you would also be explicitly mandated to make contacts and seek majorities for them. That excites my enthusiasm. Is that information correct? Is Le Soir well informed by the PS or not? How do you feel about this approach? Do you think that's a good scenario? Are you aiming for the period after Easter or will that be something for the summer? Hopefully it won't be later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic624x.u38	Mr Loones, I actually wanted to answer with a boltade, as you just did, which is also after Easter in the summer. You mentioned it earlier and we are therefore in agreement. We have just referred to it, but you know that all preparations are under way. The timing of this should be discussed with colleagues in the government, Mr Clarinval in particular, but certainly also with the Prime Minister. We will urge the Prime Minister to establish a method and timing for political dialogue. However, I cannot give you any more details on this matter today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-27-definitief-55-commissie-ic624x.u39	Madam Minister, I hope that Le Soir is very well informed, even better than Parliament. In any case, I wish you success, so that it does not become figs after Easter. We'll follow up on this.
