ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic401x.u1	Minister, my question is no longer so topical and has already been partially answered in the media. The problem of piracy in the Gulf of Guinea, which we can take as a pars pro toto for other areas, was also raised during the discussion of the policy paper and the policy statement in November. In recent years, the wave has indeed been plagued by modern piracy; in 2009 and 2010 it was Somalia. I will not entirely repeat the introduction to my oral question. The shipping companies, and not the least, have been putting pressure on the authorities in the region through ICM for some time. Some ten countries in the Gulf of Guinea are involved, from the great Nigeria to island states such as São Tomé and Principe. Large and small shipping companies urge their various national governments and ICM to take a coordinated military approach to counter that wave of piracy, just as it did in Somalia at the time. That is a very serious problem for the nautical world, and it has already been mentioned in the first draft law, which has an impact on employment, among other things, but I certainly do not have to convince you of that. Mr Minister, my questions are a little broader in nature. The issue concerns several ministers and policy areas. Since diplomatic contacts are not insignificant, have you spoken to your Foreign Minister, Mrs Wilmès? If so, what was the result? Have you reached a consensus on this? If no, is such a conversation still planned? Have you also consulted your colleague, Mrs Dedonder, on any military intervention or a role for Belgium in the context of global or European intervention in the Gulf of Guinea or enlargement in other global territorial waters?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic401x.u2	Mr De Spiegeleer, the Maritime Security Cell was established at the Directorate-General for Shipping in 2017. One of the most important tasks of the cell is the security of our ships worldwide. In this context, the cell cooperates daily with the Defence Department and in particular with the Navy and Military Intelligence Directorate ADIV, with the shipping police and with customs. Those services also work together in the MIK, the Maritime Information Crossroads. At the MIK a maritime situational awareness is built up on a permanent basis. Information is collected from both open and closed sources and possible threats are verified. On the basis of that information, high risk areas are identified, including the Gulf of Guinea or the Strait of Hormuz. The information collected is also shared with our Belgian shipowners, so that they can provide their ships in that high risk area with additional recommendations or make changes to the travel plans. Specifically for the Gulf of Guinea, the Maritime Security Cell is in very close contact with the International Information Centre, led by the French Navy. Each Belgian ship that enters the region reports that in advance to the Maritime Security cell, which in turn provides all relevant information to the company security officers of the shipping companies concerned. The passage of the ship shall be monitored continuously until the ship has left the zone. You are right to say that the Gulf of Guinea is currently the most dangerous area in the world. The pirate attacks are numerous and very aggressive. Until a few months ago, the attacks were mainly aimed at the cargo, but now the crew is increasingly being considered as targets and are being kidnapped in exchange for ransom. In January, a Turkish ship, the MV Mozart, was attacked by pirates, killing a seafarer and abducting 15 seafarers. There are consultations between my staff and those of the Ministers for Defence and Foreign Affairs. The consultation was constructive in the sense that the participation in the maritime capacity building in the region was confirmed from the Defence Department. Defence remains therefore committed to international cooperation in the region. The ongoing agreement with Benin, where our military provide training and training to the local authorities, is also maintained. Foreign Affairs has also confirmed its attention to the region and will engage in further talks with the Nigerian authorities and neighbouring countries to ensure the safety of our ships and crews. The constructive dialogue is therefore conducted at both administrative and political level. Finally, I am working on a pilot project to scan a ship in 3D. Hopefully we will never need such 3D scans, but if there is an incident, we will be able to prepare a possible intervention by the Special Forces even better in the future through those scans.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic401x.u3	Minister, I expected some of your answers. They are in the same style as in the Committee on Justice and in the plenary. They are reassuring and soothing, but it is of course too little concrete and I am not reassured by it. Defense does indeed provide training in Benin, one of the smaller nations in the area. That will be better than nothing, but we will not get a real, balanced military intervention like in Somalia, not from Belgium or from the EU. I refer to Mrs Dedonder's reply, which you have already consulted. The EU is setting up a pilot project for coordination, but this will not be a military structure. The performance will rather be limited to the gentle conversation. Countries like Benin, São Tomé and Principe are smaller players as opposed to Nigeria. For questions about this, I have to be with Mrs Wilmès, but she is more difficult to get to committee. Those are plumes on your hat, Mr. Van Quickenborne. A great nation such as Nigeria has a fairly high level of malicious content and is not really accommodating when it comes to allowing foreign interference in their politics and territorial waters. I think the approach is a little too harsh and firm. I hope that, under the motto, we do not have to repeat the incident with Pompei in 2009 off the coast of Somalia. Bad healers make stinky wounds. I hope I don't have to come back to this. However, I'm afraid it's not the end of the story yet. To be continued.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic401x.u4	Minister, we know that we live in a complex country and, as a liberal minister, you are very pragmatic about this. Efficiency and cooperation federalism is basically the motto. This question, which is actually a follow-up question, concerns the federal investigation body for maritime accidents, an independent investigation body set up after the partial transposition of a European directive. It concerns the FOSO's competence to investigate serious accidents on board Belgian vessels. In particular, these are accidents which cause loss of a vessel or of human life, structural damage to the vessel, stranding and so on. However, the investigation into the cause of a shipping accident occurring on inland waterways has been the responsibility of the Regions since the sixth state reform. Your predecessor has offered to the three Regions to have the FOSO also investigate the shipping accidents on inland waterways. In this sense, last year the Flemish Government adopted a draft decree setting up its own investigative body, but leaving open the possibilities for a cooperation agreement with the federal level. Your predecessor gave a positive opinion on this at the end of his journey on 11 September 2020. Your predecessor then instructed the federally competent administrations to consult with the competent regional administrations on a draft cooperation agreement, which would allow the FOSO in the short term to investigate accidents on inland waterways and in ports. The intention was to present a final version of that agreement for discussion by mid-October 2020. The cooperation agreement was also announced by you in your policy paper. Minister, what is the state of play on this cooperation agreement announced by your predecessor? Are there any problems in this area? If so, which and how will be remediated?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic401x.u5	Mr Ravyts, as my predecessor has already said, the Flemish draft decree was adopted by the Flemish Government on 10 July and delivered to the Council of State for advice. The cabinet of the Minister responsible, Lydia Peeters, has confirmed to my staff that the text is currently being adapted to the opinions received and will then be submitted to the Flemish Parliament for approval. It is only after that approval that the cooperation agreement, which has already been drawn up, can be finalized.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic401x.u6	Minister, I expected this short answer. People are not always quick at Flemish level, but I hope that it will be all right in the foreseeable future, so that I do not have to ask a question about this for a third time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic401x.u7	This question is politically a little more important and more well-behaved in this House. It is remarkable that I am now a guest on the Mobility Committee. We questioned you in January, together with seven colleagues on the Committee on the Environment, but so be it. In the meantime, the conclusions of the results of the public consultation on 16 February 2021 were published by the French in the Commission Nationale du Débat Public's compte render du débat public. The report is available. In the meantime, have you taken note of the French responses to the package of objections announced by Belgium at the consultation meeting of 3 December 2020 to both the project developers and the French energy administration and the French representatives of the préfet maritime? Have the developers already indicated how they wish to take account of the Belgian objections in this respect? Have the project developer and the competent French services responded to your invitation for further consultation? If so, what is the result of this? I understand from a question in the Flemish Parliament that diplomatic action would be taken this month, both by your colleague Wilmès and by yourself. I have also heard that a French decision date would be foreseen on the final progress of the project, namely 16 May 2021. Then we could know whether or not the project will be continued, stopped or modified. Can you confirm this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic401x.u8	Mr President, Mr Ravyts, I would like to make a distinction in my reply between the questions raised during the chat meeting on 3 December 2020 and the official Belgian response that was submitted. The questions from the chat session were delivered by my services to the developers. Their answers were translated into Dutch and published on the website about the public consultation. I have not yet received a reply to the official Belgian position. However, on 16 February the Commission presented its report to the general public. The committee's recommendation explicitly states that it is appropriate for the French authorities to continue consultations with our country. With regard to your second question, the French developers have not yet indicated what they intend to do, since they have a period of three months following the presentation of the CNDP's report to indicate whether they wish to continue the project and how they intend to respond to the concerns. If you take those three months into account, you will reach 16 May. By that date they will therefore have to decide on the possible continuation of the project. Only then will we find out more. During the presentation of the CNDP's report, the project developers clearly stated that they have taken note of the Belgian objections and that they will consult with us on them. There is not yet a specific date for this. The dossier is, of course, still being kept diplomatically. This month I have another meeting with the competent French Minister, Mrs Pompili. Of course, I will be able to report on this next question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic401x.u9	Thank you, Minister, for your interim explanation. It is a work in progress and we are still confident that the most negative aspects of this project can still be averted in the last instance before we have to switch to other legal means. It's being prosecuted.
