ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic516x.u1	Minister, I understand that you will first give a brief explanation. Two questions have been put by Mrs De Wit and Mr Pivin, who also deal with the budget, after which anyone who wishes to speak can take the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic516x.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will first give a presentation on the budget for the coming years and then answer the questions. If colleagues need more time, I am at the disposal of the committee for further debate. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will give a presentation on the budget. In preparation for this exchange of views, I had two documents sent to colleagues and the committee chairman, namely the royal decision we took on 2 April at the Council of Ministers which allocated the budget for the year 2021 and the royal decision taken at the Council of Ministers on 21 May. That last royal decree has not yet been finalized. I had you forward the schedule. The FOD BoSa is currently working on the revision. They're doing the KB. On the basis of these two pieces, you can check line by line on the basis of the basic allocations which are the additional expenses for Justice. They are, of course, pieces with basic assignments. It is therefore a good thing that I now give some explanation on the basis of these basic allocations as to the exact destination of these budgets. That will certainly promote the discussion and will also bring transparency to the documents. I will, of course, forward the presentation as well. Justice has a budget of about EUR 2 billion, as the government agreement knows, an annual budget is added. At cruising speed that would be 250 million euros in 2024. That's always been said. This year, that is 125 million euros to be obtained from the interdepartmental commission, starting from 2022 in the base. In addition, there is a second important column of additional expenditure in the Justice Department. That was in the base and is second-line assistance. This amounts to EUR 65 million in 2021 to EUR 209 million in 2024. These are, of course, one-off investments, not structural ones. The RRF, of Recovery and Resilience Facility, the European fund that pays for the digitisation of Justice, comes to a total of 137 million euros. On the basis of the amounts, you can see that several millions a year go to investments. The intention is, of course, to spend 125 million this year. Next year, it'll be 175 million extra. The figures in the presentation all refer to 2022, unless otherwise indicated. The presentation I will give relates purely to budget increases and not to initiatives without a budget increase. For these initiatives, I refer you to the policy statement, the policy paper and also to the initiatives that have been taken in the meantime. The classification is very simple: making justice faster, making justice more human, making justice more criminal. I'll start with the "Make Justice Faster" hatch. What we want to do, horizon 2022, is of course to recruit more people to Justice. Below you will find, as mentioned, the basic allocations, which you can find in the royal decree and in the schedules that have been sent to you. By 2022, we want to recruit 1,400 new talents: 827 people in the judicial system and 199 extra people in the prison system. The security of the state is 270 people extra, 135 this year and 135 next year. The services of the FPS Justice itself involve 105 additional people. Of the 827 judicial officers, 116 are judges, 67 are referenda, 106 are prosecutors, 113 are clerks, 36 are criminologists and 389 are support staff. This is a considerable amount of €46 million in investment. What's the point? With them, we will eliminate the legal backlog. Firstly, there are 50 additional staff assigned to two places. For the Brussels Court of Appeal and the Brussels Labour Court, we will recruit 15 additional people to overcome the backlog. At the same time, you also know that there is an audit at the Supreme Court of Justice, which should also expose the structural problems and suggest solutions. Secondly, at the labour and company courts we will invest more in staff, both in magistrates and in referees, clerks and assistants. Why is that necessary with them? In the company courts, of course, it is about the fact that, once the moratoria have expired, we expect an increase in the number of bankruptcies. That's probably not gonna be in Graydon's numbers, predicting 50,000 extra bankruptcies. Nevertheless, there is likely to be a riot of bankruptcies. As you know, we have amended the legislation in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. Meanwhile, the new legislation has also been extended by a royal decree. At the same time, we also want to recruit more staff to cope with the influx of things. The same applies to labour law banks. There too, we expect more people in collective debt regulation. That is why there is a strengthening of the labour court. The part mediation is also strengthened with the addition of a total of 16 employees. We will also strengthen the body of the Court of Cassation. Two Advocates-General will be added and a small support service will be created for the first time. It is an investment of almost EUR 1 million. In total, 9 new staff are recruited there. What is important for the Justice Department is something that politics has been asking for decades, managers at Justice. It is always stated that justice is an independent jurisdiction and that it is the judges who decide. That's right when it comes to the statements. However, running Justice requires management capabilities. You know that justice is organized by different entities. There are 49 chiefs at the courts and 15 at the 14 parquets and the federal parquet. We will work for the first time with the chiefs of police and magistrates as well as managers. In total, there will be 70. The large entities also receive 6 additional employees. In this way, we want to implement effectively the law on management autonomy, which has been in place since 2014, but has still not been implemented. We also want to invest in people. If we want to attract 1,400 people, we also need the capacity to recruit those people, which is why we work on two tracks. We will recruit 20 new people within the Staff Department of Personnel and Organisation and at the same time appoint 7 experts at Selor, the government selection agency. In this way we will have recruited the necessary expertise to be able to recruit quite quickly. When it comes to the magistrates, we are at the Supreme Court of Justice, but all other profiles, such as referenda and prosecutors, must all be recruited through the channels of the FPS Justice and Selor and so we must invest in them. We will also invest 200,000 euros in employee branding. After all, it is important that we put justice properly into the market and that we convince people that this is a good place to work. We will also invest in the Institute of Judicial Training. Many of you have already asked questions about new phenomena, such as the problem of sexual violence and cybercrime. We need to see that we are preparing our magistrates for this, which is why we are investing in additional staff for the IGA and at the same time providing more resources, for an amount of EUR 1.2 million. We will also strengthen the Staff Department for Budget and Management Control. That is what is needed. Also on the ICT Staff Service 43 people are added, still horizon 2022. We're going there to 158 people. That's also necessary, because I'm about to join the digital transformation section, and the ICT Staff Service is a crucial link to get that organized.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic516x.u3	The Belgian government magazine also receives 8 additional people, including 3 ICTs. As you know, the Belgian Official Journal is the country's most consulted magazine. I may be overreacting a little, but the look and feel of that leaf is a little out of date, and I'm being careful about expressing myself. There is excellent work done every day, with ministerial decisions published at all impossible hours. We want to make the Belgian Staatsblad a user-friendly digital platform with a new look and feel and with a strengthening of the Belgian Staatsblad this will be possible. We will also strengthen the Directorate General for Legislation with 8 people. You know that the new legislation is not yet at the end and that there is a new Criminal Code, a new Code of Criminal Procedure and a new Code of Criminal Enforcement, as is the completion of the Civil Code, together with this committee. Also at Crossborder, the platform for collecting fines, 45 additional people will be recruited. As far as penitentiary staff are concerned, we will of course respect the prison protocol. This means, in concrete terms, that a new one will be appointed for every penitentiary staff member who leaves. However, when recruiting new people, we also want to focus on a new dimension, namely the supervision of detention. At the moment, the emphasis is on safety, but in the future we will make a distinction between functions aimed at security missions, the security assistant, and functions aimed at mentoring the detention supervisor. So there will be two types of penitentiary officers. That will be shown for the first time in Haren's new prison. We will also organise training of EUR 700,000 which will start in the spring of 2022. We will also solve the problem of uniforms for penitentiary staff. A number of questions have been asked about this in recent months. At the moment we are working with a point system: we are entitled to x number of points and with these points one can buy a uniform in the shop of the FPS Justice Department. We're gonna make that much more free. One will get a credit that one can spend in a store of your choice in your neighborhood, of course with respect for the color codes and a number of other things. This means an additional structural investment of EUR 500 000 from 2022 and EUR 3 million for this year, because we want to enable new uniforms for the penitentiary staff very quickly. I'm going into the second section, the digital transformation of Justice. Much has already been said about this in committee. We are spending substantial sums, including EUR 137 million from the European Relance Fund, which is exceptional appropriations. In addition, there are regular credits for ICT Justice that we increase by EUR 30 million. So we are spending a lot of money on this. We will work with a group of experts. These are seven magistrates of the seat and the parquet which are now active and will be replaced in their duties. Those are people who are passionate about digitalization and who were identified by my cabinet staff. We do this together with supporting companies and, of course, with the ICT service of the FPS Justice. Together they form the cockpit of digital transformation. We will do things differently than before: in the past, we always worked top-down with a large consultancy firm that was given a very large assignment at once, but now we will realize it step by step with the experts. We're going to do that digital transformation in five steps. The first step is the modern material. In the meantime, we are already investing in this. It's about 18,000 new laptops by the end of 2022. 3,500 have already been distributed, and another 8,000 will be added in the autumn. It is an investment of EUR 10.5 million. We will also invest in videoconferencing tools. We have about 1,000 courtrooms in our country. In about 600 session rooms we will install videoconferencing tools. There will also be software on the computers. That too costs money, and we are allocating EUR 10 million for this. The second step is the digital file. Mr Dillen, you have often asked about this, when a lawyer will be able to consult the file at home instead of in the cellars of the Antwerp courthouse. We are also fully engaged in this. That should be possible by 2022. We are using funds from the fund, among other things. There will also be a viewer module for the judicial order. That is a complicated term, which is actually to ensure that if something has been submitted to the judiciary via eDeposit, it can also be read. Today, eDeposit can be used in certain courts, but not in the correctional court. With such a viewer module, eDeposit can be used anywhere. Besides, eDeposit is a great success, along with DPA. One in four petitions are already digitally filed today. Five years ago, that was zero. This shows how fast the digital acceleration is now going in the justice system. Anyway, there's still work to be done. The third step is to connect the databases of Justice to the digital file. This is specifically about the databases of the KBO, the National Register, the electronic record, the PACOS project, which are documents of conviction. This will cost EUR 21 million, a lot of money, but it is a very important step because it will create a kind of crossroads bank that will allow the exchange of data. We will also work on the famous database judgments and judgments. Colleagues, I have to admit that the 2019 law, which was adopted in the Justice Committee, is kaduuk. She's got too many flaws to be able to work. We will have to make a new law to put that all the way up to speed. The other challenge is to anonymize and pseudonymize judgments and judgments. There we go through market search to find companies that can help us in auto-anonymizing and pseudo-nimizing as fully as possible. The perfect, flawless system of one hundred percent will never work, there will always have to be a small manual check. This means that that database will not enter into force this year, as there are too many deficiencies in the 2019 law. That will be next year, probably in the autumn. We will also make the criminal record easier to unlock. A lot of steps have been taken by Mr Geens. The municipalities now also have access to it. It is digitized, but we will take further steps. Step four is Justonweb. There is a small amount registered for 2022, but there will still be amounts in 2023 and 2024. The ultimate goal is that Tax-on-web and Justonweb become one digital gateway where everyone, magistrates, lawyers, etc., can access all files on their computer and smartphone, read sentences, send documents, make payments. This will be the gateway to digital justice. That's our endgame. That's Justonweb. The fifth step is actually a step in which we should not invest, but where returns begin to come. For example, shipping costs, today 10 million euros, can be saved if everything is sent digitally. We will also be able to collect fines more easily and we will greatly improve the links with finances. The digital transformation of Justice also means that we want to digitize in prisons. Today there is the program Sidis Suite. Those who follow Justice and the prison system know that this is a program in which we follow the prisoners from detention to release. This is important, among other things, in the context of meaningful detention, but the programme is hopelessly outdated. It looks a little better than MACH. We will replace this with NewAppEpi, a more performant file management system. We invest 6 million euros in that. At the same time, we want to extend the Prison Cloud system, which exists today in three prisons, Marche, Beveren and Leuze, in which prisoners can receive digital training from their cell, to all prisons in our country. We invest a total of EUR 7 million in this. Those resources are from the RRF. The funds for NewAppEpi come from the basic allocations listed there. Of course, we are also going to invest in new buildings: new courthouses, new prisons. The budgets for this are with the Government of the Buildings, you know that very well. We are going to propose the new Masterplan Court buildings for the budget 2022, Mr Michel and I. You should know that so far there is no master plan. There's no such thing. There wasn't even an overview, except maybe an excel list of the courthouses in our country. We're working on it. The Master Plan of Prisons did exist, and we carry it out, as you know. Next year, the opening of Haren and Dendermonde. We are in the process of finalizing the DBFM procedure for the new prison in Antwerp. We hope to be able to lay the first stone in this legislature. We are also preparing procedures for Vresse-sur-Semois and Leopoldsburg. In addition, we are busy preparing three new FPCs in Aalst, Waver and Paifve. Those are budgets that belong to the Government of the Buildings. What we are going to do is increase the budget for the maintenance of the courthouses and prisons. You are undoubtedly aware of the situation in many courthouses and prisons. I am told that there is not enough money for maintenance and energy contracts. At the end of the year, all kinds of budgets have to be brought together to pay for this. Those are outrageous things. That is why we are investing significantly more structuralally in the maintenance of our courthouses, 6 million euros, and our prisons. The second dimension is more human. The second-line legal assistance, the 2020 law, was adopted on the initiative of Mr Van Hecke. You know that this means that we are systematically raising the income limits to allow more people to appeal to pro bono. That's about a significant number of people. We are going from 1.5 million people this year to 3.5 million Belgians who will be able to make full or partial use of this in 2024. An additional price, structural, of 209 million euros. If you add EUR 209 million to the EUR 250 million, you will get EUR 459 million that will be spent more by the Justice Department in 2024. Plus RRF you get a multi-issue of about 500 million euros in 2024. In addition to the EUR 250 million planned by the government, there is a new expenditure of justice, and that is the basis, we should not provide for this EUR 250 million. This means that, with Justice, we are going from a budget of EUR 2 billion to EUR 2.5 billion. If I can calculate and count correctly, that's 25% more spending on Justice. You will have to go back a long way in history in order to be able to identify such investments. We will also ensure accessibility for people who are not involved in digitalisation. We have kiosk PCs today in virtually all peace dishes. These are computers on which business can be consulted with guidance. Why do we do that in the peace dishes? As you know, there has been the central digital register for directors since 1 June 2021. There will be questions about this in committee later. We're supposed to install those kiosk PCs in other courts. A considerable amount of resources are allocated to this, so that those who do not have a computer at home can also consult cases in court. Für unsere deutschsprachigen Landsleute wird die Webseite der FÖD Justiz in die dritte Sprache übersetzt. Zu diesem Zweck were 228 000 Euro bereitgestellt. This means that the Belgian Official Journal and the website of the FPS Justice will now also be available in German. In addition to an accessible Justice, it is of course also about the victims. We will increase the number of care centres, which are covered by Mr Schlitz's budget, from 3 to 10. We have already obtained a budget from the government in 2020 for the digital file in the event of sexual violence or intra-family violence. That's important because that way victims from their homes can consult files. This will be achieved by the end of this year. The first digital files will be found in the sphere of sexual violence and intra-family violence. Later on, we will extend this digital file system to all possible Justice files. We note that there is a problem with the famous Commission for Financial Aid to Victims of Intentional Violence. This committee consists of 3 Dutch-speaking rooms, 3 French-speaking rooms and 1 bilingual terra room. But there's a backlog. On the Dutch side: 28 months. 800 files are waiting for treatment. We will strengthen that committee. We will add more resources and we will create an extra Dutch-speaking chamber at that committee to deal with the backlog. Finally, there are the coaches for the victims of terror, but you had already heard that. Of course, we also want to do something about the situation in our prisons. In my policy paper, I have made a very strong commitment to the meaningful detention to prevent recurrence. As you know, we are working on guidance plans for each inmate. This is done by the Psychosocial Services (PSD) in prisons. They make custom detention plans, they look at drug policy, sexual guidance, payment of victims, employment. But at the moment this is only being done at the moment when the prisoner is eligible for conditional release. To be able to do this from day one, a good central control is needed. Hence, we will strengthen the central team of the Psychosocial Services with 8 people so that they can provide uniform guidelines in all prisons, and also organise supervision moments for the local teams. That's hardly happening today. In addition, we will also work in a more efficient way. We will also invest in control of aggression in prisons. When I visited the site, I found that in Leuze and Oudenaarde certain organisations do so in a wonderful way. We want to focus on the control of aggression because a McKinsey study has shown that the rate of relapse is falling when one focuses on aggression control. We also want to address the health care situation in our prisons. In particular, we want to do something about the delay in paying our doctors. After all, this amounts to EUR 6.7 million. That's what we want to invest in. Furthermore, we will also invest in RX devices in order to detect tuberculosis faster and better in our prisons. In addition, of course, there is the situation of the interned. Pending the construction of the three new FPCs, we want to bring the care in Merkplas and Paifve to the level of that in an FPC. We do this by investing in 51 additional employees. Finally, there will also be 13 additional buffer beds in the FPCs. These are provided for interned persons who are free on trial but relapsed, which puts them at risk to society. In this way, we ensure that interned people do not always have to be sent back to prison. I come to the last part, a criminal justice system and the resources we provide for it. On 1 December, the execution of the sentences starts less than three years from the famous law on external legal status. There were doubts as to whether I would do this and they feared that I would postpone it again, like all my predecessors. We do not postpone and invest in 30 people, including 12 magistrates, criminal execution judges who will watch over the execution of these short sentences from 1 December. That is a big investment, after the change in the law that was also supported by the opposition. We provide more capacity, such as detention homes and, of course, the new prisons in Haren and Dendermonde. It's going to be a big challenge, but we're going to use it to fight against impunity. It is important that we also provide a great deal of resources for new methods of tackling persistent problems. I had the advantage of being able to record my budgets when I was Minister of Justice for several months. Meanwhile, I've been on the premises regularly, every week, and I've been able to observe that a lot of courts and parquets experiment and bring out interesting things that really make a difference on the ground: the best practices, as it's called. To be able to roll out these best practices in the rest of the country, we will recruit 72 additional employees: magistrates and others. It is an investment of 4.6 million euros. That is quite an investment in three initiatives. First of all, the follow-up rooms, which you undoubtedly know. In Ghent, for example, the drug treatment room exists. I also refer to initiatives in Antwerp and Charleroi, where people are better followed up before passing the classic sentence with the classical measure of punishment. They are obliged to follow a therapy and to compensate their victims. This will help us guide suspects much better to their own needs. In Mechelen, together with Flemish minister Demir, the youth succession chamber was established. We will therefore take such interesting initiatives together with the Communities. Secondly, quick trials. In addition to any amendment to the law on rapid law, which we are currently investigating, we would like to see many more rapid courtrooms, which also rule in fast-track law. That's good to fight impunity. According to the figures, one third of the fast-track decisions in Brussels fall. In many places there is no question at all of quick courtrooms because there are too few magistrates. We will solve that by investing in it. Finally, the mediation rooms in family matters. I visited it in Antwerp in October. We note that friendly solutions have a much better effect in conflict resolution between partners, including for children. This will reduce the number of appeals and improve compliance with the agreements. We also want, of course, to generalise the rapid approach to common crime. You know the initiative in Limburg by Magistrate Ann Durwael and others. Meanwhile, all the police zones in Limburg have joined the project, which works very well. Police and prosecutors are immediately in contact with each other at any time. 25% of the criminal offences take effect. The lead time of about 40 weeks is reduced to about four or five weeks. It is spectacular and definitely worth a visit. We'll roll that out over the rest of the country. From September onwards, one of my collaborators will take the round from Belgium, from parquet to parquet, to convince them to join it. With the resources we provide, 70 people and 3.3 million euros, it should also be possible to see the effect, the lick-on-piece policy in the 14 parquets of the country implemented. We also invest in the repeat monitor. That was an idea from the N-VA. Colleagues, remember the discussion we had following the policy statement 2.0. Then it was said that the Minister would not implement it and would not respect this suggestion. Colleagues, fish butter: EUR 430,000 in 2022, a total of EUR 700,000 for a repeat monitor, a wonderful idea of the N-VA colleagues. We'll do this together with the NICC. We are, after all, one of the few countries that do not have objective figures on recidivism. As far as the fight against drug crime is concerned, it is about Sky ECC. Remember, we've already appointed 61 people. All places are now filled in for both the parquet and for the seat. These 61 people will be recruited permanently within the framework of the 141 additional people we're using for Sky ECC and, of course, for the Power Plan XXL. That is an investment of EUR 7 million. 141 extra people for this kind of research. Of course, we are also fighting against sexual violence and intra-family violence. First of all, we are working out the famous risk assessment tool of 5.7 million euros that we had already foreseen in 2020. This means that the files will be digitised, which will allow much quicker analysis of the risk and thus also the chance of creating new victims. The behaviour during the execution and the long lead time of a file are monitored and can lead to flashing lights allowing magistrates to take over a file much faster. So we can avoid what happened two years ago in the horrible murder of Julie Van Espen. We also recruit 15 new criminologists who will work exclusively on the issue of intra-family violence and sexual violence. That is absolutely necessary. Many of you often refer to the COLs and the revisit that needs to be carried out. Well, by recruiting additional people, we will be able to follow the dossiers much more closely. The Antwerp District Court has doubled the number of convicted rape victims. Code 37 is being extended. Every time a new care center opens up for sexual violence, we will link a code 37. We're going from three to ten. So we can do a much better trace and increase the rate of rape. You know that 75% of the perpetrators of sexual violence are known. Finally, there are also punitive services for punitive results. First of all, there is the NTSU-CTIF service, which intercepts telecommunications. This is crucial in the fight against organised crime, just think of Sky ECC. This service will receive an additional EUR 16.6 million. That's necessary because if there's going to be 5G, and that's what's going to happen, they're going to have to adapt all the systems to that 5G technology. The process of the attacks starts next year. That's what extra staff comes for. It costs 6.2 million. There's $3.4 million for the site Justitia. We are also fighting against tax and financial fraud. That was also stated in my policy statement and policy paper. As you know, Mr Van Peteghem's plan to combat tax and financial fraud has been approved in the government. There are files that take far too long. By recruiting 30 new people, magistrates and employees, we will try to reduce this delay. I also refer to pénales d'exécution, the criminal investigation. You know that the 2014 law provides for legal means for the criminal investigation, but in reality this often remains dead letter. That is why we will now appoint 30 new staff, magistrates and support staff, for EUR 1.45 million. This is done in accordance with the example of the court of Ghent, where an experiment has already been set up, with success. It is noted that if one invests in it, the return is many times larger. That is, of course, necessary. Then I come to the problem of road safety. We want to get rid of the quotas and also the margins of tolerance. I refer to the speech by Mr Buyst, Mr Raskin and others. It is quite right to argue in favour of this. It's an old very. Quotas have existed since I won't say 1831 but it won't matter much. Trajectory checks are more off than on. Flash cameras don't work half the time. Mayors are faced with quotas, should not have any more minutes drawn up, because otherwise they cannot be processed. We want to solve that by hiring more people. There'll be 30 people at the seat, police courts. There are 45 people joining us at the state's attorney's office level. It is an investment of 4.47 million euros. For the security of the state, we're moving from 583 staff to 1,000 staff by 2024. So we are finally investing in the security of the state, something we have been waiting for for decades. Every year there will be 135 people and by 2022 there will be 270. There is also investment in cybercrime. As you can see, crime is shifting from physical to online. We recruit 33 extra people, an investment of 1.46 million euros. Of course, good training will be needed. With these investments in the Justice Department, we are really trying to break the trend. We did this in consultation with the people on the premises. The plans, proposals and decisions were made after consultation with the Court of Cassation, the College of Courts and Courts, the College of Attorneys General, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the FPS Justice, its organisations and external organisations such as the Security of the State, the IGA and the NICC. It's been worked on for months, because that takes time. I would like to thank my staff very much for their efforts because this was a good job. Is this the solution for the Justice Department now? Absolutely not, there are still a lot of challenges. For example, we need to recruit people in a tight labour market, which will be a major challenge. Furthermore, we need to make the digitisation of Justice succeed, knowing that this will not be evident. After all, we have seen what has happened in this area in the past. Moreover, we must above all ensure that people's confidence in the justice system returns. That is a huge challenge and I do not believe that we will have a perfectly functioning Justice by 2024, absolutely not. I prefer to speak of the decade of Justice, from 2020 to 2030. However, I do think that we will see a structural improvement in Justice in 2024 - you can take care of me for that, by the way, and I hope that the planned budgets will contribute to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic516x.u4	Minister, last Friday I asked about the KBs to which you referred two weeks ago when discussing budget control. You said that it was again about a technical budget, in which the interdepartmental commissions would be divided into the CPS. My question was aimed at getting a copy of it. Mr Minister, yesterday we were granted a KB for the year 2001. Then we've also been given schedules. I suspect those are the schematics to which you referred in your presentation. Minister, what is the status of those schemes that have not appeared in an IA? Is that knocked off? Is that certain? I also took the trouble yesterday to check all these allocations with the documents from the April budget check. Before going on with my questions, I would first like to know the statute of the schedules, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic516x.u5	I give the floor to the Minister and then I give the floor back to you, Mrs De Wit, for your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic516x.u6	Mrs De Wit, I said that at the beginning of my speech. The first KB was decided at the Council of Ministers on 2 April and has since been published. The second KB was decided at the Council of Ministers on 21 May and is currently in front of the FOD BOSA for revision. The political work has been completed and the KB is now formally drafted by the FOD BOSA, after which it will be published. Political decisions have been taken. There is therefore no longer any political discussion on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic516x.u7	Thank you, Minister, for your presentation, explanatory statement and presentation. I suppose we can get that, too, so I can do my homework and check the numbers. You list all kinds of assignments. You mention very many amounts in your presentation. Whatever will come in what year will be the challenge. Two weeks ago, we had a budget discussion and you referred to the commissions. We had to wait for the KBs. You will then hold a major press conference this morning, without leaving that information to Parliament first. I very much regret that, especially for a government that is preoccupied with a new political culture. You should have invited us to that press conference. Fortunately, it has already clarified a number of things. It might be me, because I'm just a simple lawyer and not an economist. One time it's about commissions, the other time it's about basic allocation. That's how you magic with numbers. It is a very nice presentation, but we have to check the posts against the figures; then the butter comes to the fish. There's already been a bit of a magical set of numbers. Let me clean it up for the colleagues. In October, it sounded like an extra 300 million a year for the Justice Department. In the policy statement it was 250 million a year. In the policy paper it was 125 million in 2021, after which 250 million would be added for Justice only in 2024. You repeated that last week. Then there was the technical budget in November. Two weeks ago, we got another technical budget. You say it's to do the interdepartmental commissions. That is explained in two KB's today, but we only have one left and the schematics. I hear that's knocked off. I'll have a problem. I can still count, I guess. If I am mistaken, you will want to point it out to me, since the figures, as you say, have been knocked off. I see that, according to the first and signed and published KB, some 75 or 79 million will be added for Justice in Department 12, depending on whether it is a commitment credit or liquidation credit. Let's stay positive and take 79 million, that's already on more. If I look at your schedules and see what is added in phase 2 in 2021, even with the recurrent expenditures, then I will not get 125 million and still lack 10 to 15 million. I can't find it. They're not in there. However, you tell me that the schedule was knocked off. I do not find EUR 125 million in this, even if it is still a lot with more than EUR 100 million. The codes are mainly about remuneration, goods and ICT. I'm beginning to know the codes. Everything's already been allocated. If people say it's butter with the fish, well, I can already see the fish, but not all the butter. We don't have everything yet, Minister. The amount isn't quite right. I read in the news reports, based on your press conference this morning, that there will be a EUR 0.5 billion for Justice, on top of the EUR 2 billion that has already been allocated. That 2 billion is actually EUR 1.9 billion that was already in the budget. It's been discussed here. In addition, EUR 500 million will be added. The press reports that EUR 137 million will be added through the European Relance Fund. For the rest - as I understand you on the radio this morning - it is estimated that EUR 125 million will be added every year. You'll have to explain this to me, Minister. We have moved from EUR 250 million to EUR 125 million, building up to EUR 250 million. Now we are talking about EUR 125 million. Is that a lower budget now? Or will there still be 500 million euros? You just said that the amount is in the basic budget and that it is extra. That's very confusing. First of all, you are talking about the basic budget, but our budget represents EUR 0 for a new policy. That is also explicitly stated in the Royal Decree. So it has to come through the commissions. The commissions are in the schematics and the tables we've been given. I don't think so either. You also say that, for example, there will be an additional amount for the pro-Deo scheme, i.e. the amount of EUR 175 million, which we had already foreseen for that year. Then you yourself contradict those tables, because in your beaten schedule - I assume the amount comes from the commissions - I see pro-Deo expenditure only for 2022. There is €0 for 2021, but more than €1 million for 2022. That is in your commission, in the amount you have already subscribed and not on top of it, unless I have misunderstood it. I have the impression that you are conjuring up numbers and talking about commissions and the other time about basic allocation, where the amount comes on top, while you are also bringing a presentation to the committee for all years. Who else can check anything? We won't see until we get the bill. I don't think it's quite right, because what you say is on top of it, I find in your commissions. I can't find everything either. The amount for the Victims' Fund remains the same, while you announced that you would increase it. I find nothing for transition homes or for the pro-Deo scheme for 2021, as I said earlier. You announced in your presentation that money was added, but I do not find that in your table. Your table specifically states that for 2021 the legal aid allocation, number 5611344148, is 0 euro, i.e. 0 euro extra. Either your presentation is incorrect, or the schedule is incorrect, or there is another schedule that we didn't get. It is not clear to me at all, and that makes me a little angry, because we need to have an exchange of views on this now. I am very pleased that we are getting this opportunity and that we are getting information, but the way in which you organized things, namely by providing tables yesterday and giving a presentation today, makes it completely impossible for me to put all the allocations next to the figures and see if what you are saying here today is true. I'm sorry to hear that. Not too many of my colleagues in the committee have actually been looking at all the figures last time. I have made this effort, and I believe that we must be able to finish this work on the ground, which makes it impossible for me to do so. After all, they're all mixed up. You always say that we can take care of your actions and not your words, but it is very difficult for me to take care of your actions, because I stick to the words. The actions and schedules that follow do not correspond to the words you have spoken, unless I have not understood it as a simple lawyer, but you will certainly correct me. I think you're getting it all mixed up and throwing it in a pile, so a cat can't find her boy in it anymore. It's important and it's good that there's money for the Justice Department. I am happy about it and I also welcome the addition of money. The fact that you give extra money and recruit staff is wonderful. Justice can use extra staff. You want to spend the money, however, without looking at where these people are needed. We are no longer talking about the measurement of workload. It has already been mentioned by the site that it will be very difficult to shape. In any case, you don't speak anymore. Mr Minister, just throwing a bag of money at it, it may still be a bag of EUR 125 or 150 million, or any bag of money will not do anything. You must bet that money where it is needed effectively. You must also work on structures and self-determination. In that case, we will get there. You're saying you're gonna put justice on the market. You're good at that. You can put everything in a great market. You are a very good communicator at that point. However, that alone will certainly not be enough. In your tables I have not found a whole number of allocations. They're new, and I didn't find them in the previous budget either. I'm going to have to find out from your presentation what they contain. I suspect there will be a lot of ICT when I see the last numbers of the codes. Where exactly which ICT will come from, I'm gonna have to figure it out. Mr Minister, perhaps you can explain to me the difference between phase 1 and phase 2 of your schedules. You did not mention that, and that was not entirely clear to me either. I understand that you're working in stages. You will also note that you are fulfilling your promises in connection with Operation Sky. Of course, the tables aren't about what additional reinforcements come with the judicial police. However, that is also a part of your budget. I don't agree with that either, by the way. However, this will also be very important, not only in the case of the Justice Department but also in the case of the judicial police, which will have to provide the information that will ultimately have to be monitored by the Justice Department. Mr. Secretary, perhaps you could explain it in a moment. I'll hold on to it for a while and wait for your response to my speech, but either you charge double, or you charge yourself rich, or it's as the media has published, which is 125 million euros per year, and then it's less than what's in your policy paper and less than what your presentation on the first page tells us. It may also be that the amount is still above your budget, it is not in the basic allocations, it is not in the budget and it is not in the schedules - and then I want to know exactly where the money comes from. Nor does the 137 million from the European Relance Fund bring you up to 500 million more. Minister, it would be useful to clarify this further. So we, the simple opposition, can check it out. It might also be interesting for the majority to have a good look at how much butter has actually been added to the fish before knocking on the chest.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic516x.u8	Minister, thank you for your fairly clear and comprehensive presentation. I do not have the same conclusions as Mrs De Wit. Listening to him, I feel like you have to start over the whole of your speech. Strengthening justice is a commitment of means, as you see in your tables, but it is first and foremost a political commitment. This commitment has been made by the government and by yourself, and for which you stand by. You have recently confirmed your will, you have confirmed the means that you will make available. We must welcome the recruitment of new talents in the judiciary, the training of people, the provision of resources for prison buildings. There's only good news. They may have to be analysed more carefully, but in general, you take problems with the body and I want to thank you because you're on the way to helping justice work better. It is also known how many reinforcement announcements have already been made without the ability to adequately respond to each other's needs. We know that very well and that is what will be the subject of the questions I will ask you. We know this all the more as a result of what we have been able to verify recently in the situation and in the malfunctions surrounding the case of Jürgen Conings, which illustrates the emergencies that may exist in the area in which we are concerned. I wanted to focus on the state security situation, which is the subject of the beginning of your first table and the end of your last table of presentation. His situation is worthy of attention: the reinforcements of justice are also the reinforcements dedicated to the specific services of our entire security architecture. We know, Mr Minister, how much resources are lacking: in terms of capacity, human expertise, equipment and also the modernization of information and analysis technologies. The boss of the R Committee has also indicated this quite recently. I do not think I have to recall here the recommendations that we made in this regard in the context of the Attentats Committee of Inquiry. In all clarity, we know that the attractiveness of the trade in these specific public services is not obvious. In fact, the search for specialized profiles in the field of State security is not of great simplicity, as the private sector competes. These are the questions I wanted to ask you. You were able to answer some of them – the numbers – but less to others. I think you were waiting for the exchange to take place to address them. First of all, I wanted to know what the intelligence services' quantified requests for necessary and effective reinforcement were. Do you consider that you meet 100% of the proposals of these services or that we are still in the complementary stages to achieve objectives defined by experts and finally to be at the level? Are we in an intermediate phase or are we facing the meeting of all the needs of State Security? In this respect, in one of the tables you speak of "270". At the end of your speech, you clarified things by saying "135 a year in 2021, 135 in 2022": this is 270. But I imagine you will confirm that there is a balance in 2023 to arrive at the thousand you have announced, which would obviously be an excellent thing for the State Security. In that regard, I would like to know whether a specific method of recruitment is in place. Is there coordination with the search for profiles, for example for the services of the interior, or the CCU? Do you call on the private sector to support the search process for these specialized profiles? Is there an exchange of experience for this reinforcement that you expect at the human and technological level with friendly states that would, by hypothesis, be more advanced than we do in this matter? You have announced a strengthening of ties with foreign services through liaison officers. Can you indicate how much we currently have and what is the objective you want to achieve? What legislative and technological measures are included in your strategic plan to increase the flexibility and capacity of our Internet and social media research services? Finally, you have answered the question in part, but I am based on its totality: in terms of the 7.5 million euros per year of investment in equipment, and given that the cost of modernising the internal FPS computer system amounts, according to your colleague from the Interior, to 6.5 million euros, can you explain exactly what the allocation of these new means is and the priorities that you have identified? Thank you already for the answers you can give us.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic516x.u9	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your detailed explanation. Before I make a few comments, however, I must confess that I deeply regret the fact that you gave the scoop to the media and the press and not to Parliament. It would be a better policy, first of all in the Committee on Justice, which falls within your jurisdiction, to give text and explanation rather than to go to the media. I hope that you will take these opposition comments into account in the future. Thank you, Minister, for your explanation, which clarified the figures we received yesterday. I will briefly put forward a first set of reservations. Minister, you have given a lot of figures and announced many recruitments. For example, in the court order, 827 staff would be raised, which is a very positive fact. I will not criticize that. However, I do have a general question. Where do you think you're gonna find these staff members? After all, we have had a number of discussions with you in committee, including in connection with the discussion of your policy paper and policy letter. Today, we have to see that even the parquets are empty. Also the vacant places at the sitting magistrate are absolutely not filled out. There are far too few candidates. However, Minister, I must confess quite frankly that I am very surprised. After all, this is a fantastic and very nice job. It is remarkable that there are not enough candidates. You have announced that you will work with what you call a beautiful English term employer branding. A budget of EUR 200,000 is earmarked for this purpose. How, however, do you see this in concrete terms? Which target group will you target? I am thinking, for example, of the legal profession, which is already aware today that it can apply to open seats in the magistrate's office. I would have liked to have more information on this. Minister, I have a number of specific questions. You want to support the judicial order with about 300 support staff. I didn't write the right number. What am I supposed to do with that? That is in addition to the magistrate and referenda. I would have liked to have a little more explanation on that too. Quite rightly, the citizens have been asking for it for a long time, it is an old very for which you are not responsible, you announce that you will be able to deal with the years behind in court. You will provide 50 people, 15 of whom will go to Brussels. How do you see the distribution between the other arrondissements? How's that gonna happen? I share your fears that the number of bankruptcies will increase considerably in the autumn and that the number of cases for collective debt settlement will also increase. For labour law banks and company courts, you provide 16 magistrates. I assume that you will not add one magistrate everywhere, that this is a well-considered number. I would have liked a little more explanation on this too. You announced, if I am not mistaken, that it is new, to appoint 39 managers, alongside the current Chiefs of Staff. What is their specific mission? How does he relate to the Chief Constable? Who's gonna be the boss of who, so to speak? How will this cooperation take place? I would also like to have a little more explanation on that. Minister, with regard to the prisons, you are announcing two new functions: a function of security and a function of supervision of detention. I would also like to have some more explanation about that. How do you see that? Is that on top of the existing functioning of the current psychosocial service? That service is indeed absolutely over-questioned. He's short-handed on the property. It has incredibly many dossiers to deal with, especially in the context of the preparation of files for the criminal courts, where there is, of course, also a need for timing, so that other aspects of the mission cannot be dealt with. Are these new functions going to strengthen and guide that service? Then, Minister, I have a specific question about the uniforms. That's also an old one with the guards. They have been asking for years for more funding to be made available, and quite rightly so. If I have noted correctly, you will provide a sum of EUR 3 million here and you will say that they themselves will have a budget with which they can buy a uniform in the neighborhood shop. Of course, this is bound by certain colours and vestival requirements. Could you explain that a little bit more? It is very important for the visibility that there is still a certain uniform. One is not supposed to be allowed to work with dark blue jeans and the other with chic costume pants. There must be clarity, both for the prisoner and for anyone who enters prison. Digitalisation is rightly addressed. Here you have announced four different phases. You have written and explained this, but I did not understand the right timeline. Could you explain that a little bit more? Those phases overlap? The digital file is one of your stickhorses. Following the discussion of the policy statement and policy paper, I had initially understood that this would be achieved by the end of 2021. Now you have said that lawyers can see that directly at the office in the course of 2022. 2022 shall start on 1 January and end on 31 December. That's another 12 months difference. Can you do that very quickly and not postpone for more than a year? After all, the lawyers and especially the criminal specialists are asking parties there. I do not comment on the principle itself, but how should I see it in relation to another and correct announcement of making justice more human? You said that victims of sexual violence could consult the file digitally by the end of the year. What exactly will they be able to consult? Is it the criminal record in itself, which would seem a little surprising to me? Sometimes there can be documents that are very confidential and can only be consulted by the magistrate and attorney. That is not entirely clear to me. I'd like a little more explanation. You have announced that you will also expand the digital platform for inmate training in prison. Today it exists in three prisons. How do you see that? Is it intended to ensure that this will be possible in all prisons within this legislature? Then the budget you are providing for this will be absolutely insufficient. There will be a master plan for all courthouses. I am very curious about that too. About the prison master plan that already exists today, you said that it is the intention to lay the first stone for this legislature for Antwerp. So much more Antwerp should not expect of that. We are full in this legislature, but it does not end until 2024. Can you explain more about the timing? The budget for second-line assistance will significantly increase this legislative period. This is, of course, a necessary consequence of the happy change in the legislation in this area. Does this budget include the increase in the budget for free legal aid for second-line assistance? Is that connected to that? By allowing more people to call on a pro-Deo lawyer, they will also be able to rely more on free legal aid, i.e. free assistance from bailiffs, the payment of court fees which means a big bite from the budget of the legal guardian and so on. Is that connected to that? Is there an increase for this? One of the conditions for obtaining free legal aid is that the defendant has been assigned a pro-Deo attorney. Here too, I would like more explanation. The number of quick court hearings will increase. That's a good thing. I would like to link that with your other announcement for a quick approach by the public prosecutor of common forms of crime. You provide 70 additional staff and a budget of 3.3 million euros. That's all very positive. We need to create a system in which there is equal treatment for similar crimes. I'll make one comparison. Yesterday morning at the police court in Antwerp a whole morning corona sessions were on the agenda. People will then be summoned in large groups. One of the legitimate complaints that came back in the plea of all the lawyers is that the public prosecutor is acting a little arbitraryly. Some of the offenders are given the opportunity to pay a fine. Other offenders will be given the opportunity to perform a work sentence. A community service can be very effective, especially among young people. Others do not get the opportunity to pay a fine or to pay a work sentence in the event of a first offence, but have to go to court. For example, it was a party with fifteen students after the exams in February. The court ordered three months' imprisonment and a fine of between 100 and 300 euros. Remember, that amount has to be multiplied times eight. In addition, the court fees amount to more than EUR 300. No criticism, but if the public prosecutors are to be given the opportunity to deal quickly with certain common forms of crime, then there must also be more or less equal treatment. As far as road safety is concerned, you have announced that quotas will be abolished. That is a thorn in the eye for a long time, because not everyone is equal before the law. One can choose to tackle all speed devils, depending on the severity of the speed violation, but it must be excluded that in one place everyone is allowed to drive too fast and everyone also knows that there is virtually no control, that the cameras do not work and so on. The abolition of quotas is therefore very positive and I hope that this will be done very quickly. This is a first set of reservations about your performance. I have asked for a number of figures, Minister, including the breakdown between the various districts. I understand you can't give them in full right now. It is also fine for me if you ensure that this information can be included in the report. Once again, I will look very closely at your presentation and compare it with the policy paper and your policy statement. Well, I guess I'll come back to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic516x.u10	Mr Minister, it is not unusual for the budget debate to be broken down in a first year of government. I can understand that. But let us say that I was a little bit off track just now, because we had only discussed the budget here fourteen days ago. That was a good debate then. I shattered quite a bit of powder back then. Don't worry, I'm not gonna sprout any powder today. But I would like to ask the President and you, Minister. This document seems to me to be a very important document. This committee is a well-functioning committee, even if we say so ourselves. It would be nice if you could explain this here on an afternoon so that we can discuss it quietly. I could now, like Mrs Dillen, fire some 40 questions at you, continuing with those few figures I have seen, but I have already been through a four-hour hearing this morning. I can handle one more, but you must understand that these are very important matters for the operationalisation of justice. I would therefore be grateful if we could have a quiet exchange of views on this matter in this committee. It is of the most important that there is, in terms of the budget and its operationalisation. I'm only gonna make three big reservations. First of all, you are going to take on a lot of new staff in the broad sense of the word. I've even heard that you're going to do self-management because it's stuck. You're also gonna hire managers in that context. It doesn't matter. The great difficulty with the Justice Department, as in many other government departments, is to ensure that the inflow is greater than the outflow. That's a huge challenge. That has to do with the age pyramid of many of our personnel files, and with the attractiveness of the government. Branding can certainly help with that. Working with Selor can also help, but it is a huge challenge to predict this in the long term, by 2022. If you get this around with your cabinet, then you deserve even more respect than is the case today, because attracting staff to the government is the hardest thing to do. Saying there's gonna be 1,000 guys working for State Security is one thing, but getting so much is another thing. That requires a lot of follow-up. Secondly, with regard to ICT, you said something that struck me, namely that SIDIS is about as worn out as MACH. I would like to say two things about this. SIDIS was introduced by Hans Meurisse in early 2015. So that was six years ago. That is certainly not a perfect product and it dates from before my time, so it would be very easy for me to say that it was an imperfect product, but we have nevertheless had a lot of virtue of it. It will certainly have to be replaced, as everything in that sector ages very quickly. I also heard you say something about MACH. Again all the understanding for that. It's a mouthful to the staff of the Justice Department to make a laugh about it and to say that we were in the Stone Age. I could have done that, too. It's not that hard to say that justice is in the Stone Age. We can probably say that for another 30 years, but what's important is this. Creating an electronic file computer control system for a metier that is very personal and personal is the most difficult challenge. It is safe to say that the past is bad and that we will start with something new. I have no problem with people thinking that, but saying that is something else. I'll talk about the police now, to make it less offensive. The police had a revolutionary system, the ANG. That was remarkable for the rest of Europe. It has been used for more than a decade. It still works, but people agree it's old. People are developing a new system, i-Police. People have been talking about this for a long time. Developing a new system is extremely difficult and must not fail. Because if it fails, it's much worse. A large company can afford that, a minister can afford that very hard, a system that fails. By the way, we've had that in the Justice Department once. I don't need to remind you of Phoenix and Cheops. It is therefore very important to maintain the existing systems as much as possible while awaiting a new system. After all, it is not easy to develop such a new system, precisely because the processes in Justice, and that is my third point, are so fundamentally different. If every police court, every correctional court and every parole court were to work in the same way, that wouldn't be so bad. But in all jurisdictions one has one's own habits. All these processes are different. Especially when one wants to get courts of different types in the same system, it becomes even more difficult. Not to mention the courts of appeal. Developing such a new system requires a very patient, attentive process. That must be done, but if you can organise the staff by 2022 and if you have such a system set up by 2023, you deserve even more respect. I would like to urge you to keep the existing systems and that you assume that many new staff are good, and I have strongly insisted on this, so I support that if that staff is not included in work processes and job analyses that allow better handling of the same workload, it will still very often be insufficient. We manage to work in such a way that everything can be even more perfect. I say it with caution: if the number of people in the courtyard doubled, all the complaints could not be dealt with. There is always a certain description of what is priority and how one will work, how one analyzes the functions and what are the working processes that are now running. One footnote: you said that there is a Master Plan for the Prisons, while there is none even for the buildings. You've read the plans. In Court of the Future there is a whole description of how to deal with the buildings of Justice in the future. It would not be good to say what we are all going to build before people know exactly what they expect from court buildings in the 21st century. After all, you can see how we are meeting now. You are sitting at a distance and we are sitting here in a beautiful new room but it will probably be too big for the needs if we continue to do so in the 21st century, which Corona has now accelerated. That will probably also apply to the courthouses. I have noted with pleasure that you would take over those kiosks, but it is very important to first know exactly what one wants in every jurisdiction and how many buildings one needs before deciding where to set up new buildings everywhere. This new building must be built and we are already working on it in several places. In Namur, for example, that goes very well. However, it is important to know what needs Justice has in the 21st century for buildings and infrastructures. After all, we should not build new Poelaert palaces as we will live very differently within 20 years than we do today. This meeting will prove that in abundance if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic516x.u11	Madam President, I have just read in the press that our dear colleague Marc Goblet has died, a man of enormous commitment. Until his last breath, he kept sticking up for his ideals. I would like to take this opportunity to express my deepest condolences to his family, friends and colleagues, in particular the colleagues of the PS. Minister, it is wonderful that this government invests heavily in justice. You have explained this catchy and very clearly, with your distinctive passion and voluntarism, proud of what Justice can and does. For example, you talked consistently about the 1,400 talents in the Justice Department. That way of presenting sets the tone and that is very important. Of course, we welcome the additional resources for the fight against cybercrime and tax fraud. The means of carrying out criminal investigations are also very positive. Previous investigations by the Court of Auditors and the Supreme Court of Justice have shown that this offers enormous opportunities that are still underutilised today. We are also very pleased with the additional resources for the digital transformation and for the security assistants and detention counselors. Also positive are the means for the fight against sexual violence and for the general roll-out of the beautiful project Code 37 and for, for example, the operation Sky. Mrs De Wit has already mentioned it. I was curious to see what this means in concrete terms for the detention homes and the transition homes in particular. Then I'll come back on a stick horse of mine, as you know. Trafficking in human beings is also indirectly part of the airport plan and may be covered in this way. The government agreement stipulates that there must be sufficient resources for all relevant services, i.e. specialised services, magistrates, police and inspection services. That passage has just come into the coalition agreement from the observation that it would be too little, after a number of distress calls from the field. I am thinking, for example, of Mrs Ann Lukowiak, but recently I also questioned Minister Dermagne about this, who spoke about what is being experienced, especially through ECOSOC teams, and the lesser extent to which, for example, the services of the federal judicial police can be used. I quote: "This has been a very good cooperation in the past. The possibilities are currently limited by a clear under-employment." I would like to ask you what all this means for the fight against trafficking in human beings.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic516x.u12	Madam President, I will be very brief. First of all, I would like to apologize to the Minister because I was not present at the time of his presentation; we had a topical debate in the Committee on the Interior. The debate that we have is important because, as part of the adjustment, we had the opportunity to say that there was nothing going on with the commitments made by the government. I hear a lot of good things. Minister, since I have not had the opportunity to read your presentation, I will come back with questions because it really deserves to be dealt with in a concrete way. I hear that, on topics that are very dear to us and on which I have already asked you several times, additional means are proposed. I'm glad. There are certainly other things to be highlighted. I'll come back. Again, I apologize for not attending this presentation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic516x.u13	Madam President, in the area of budgetary control, I said that the second KB was not yet ready, but that I am, of course, always at the disposal of the committee, at any time, to discuss it. Of course, I will be available again if there is to be more text and explanation. It is not a problem for me to enter into the debate. It is an important debate. It also proves that there is investment in justice. Those are not empty words; it is a harsh reality that this government is making funds available for this. The preparatory work was done by my predecessor, Mr Geens, who mentioned in his texts in the books he published a necessary investment of at least EUR 500 million in Justice. Today we are taking action. I hear from the opposition two types of intervention. Mrs Dillen's intervention was substantive, asked questions, gave suggestions, comments, comments, additions. Interesting. From Mrs De Wit I hear no substantive questions, no comments, no critical additions, no suggestions, but very formal issues, starting with the budget. "I don't understand," says Mrs. De Wit, "I can't really get out of it." I suggest that I show you the schedule, 'Absolute budget for the legislature'. There's just everything in there. Mrs De Wit, the first column deals with the additional resources for Justice, 125 million in 2021, as I said a hundred times in this committee, 175 million in 2022, 225 million in 2023 and 250 million in 2024. The second column is the second-line assistance, which you said wasn't in the base, that I'm going to have to find that money myself, that I don't have that money. I confirm you, it's in the base and that base will rise. That base will increase by 65 million this year and 209 million in 2024. The third column, which is not structural investment, is about the RRF money, which had not yet been obtained at the time of the government agreement. We got it afterwards. This amounts to EUR 137 million for investments in digitalisation. If the first and second columns are added, an amount of EUR 459 million will be added to 2024. That's close to 500 million euros. Structural and re-current is about EUR 459 million extra for Justice, so almost EUR 500 million, as I said. Then there are additional resources, for investments, which you will find in the third column and which will be spent according to the year. As Mr. Pivin said, I think this explanation is clear. It is true that some or some people are challenging it, say that it is not true, that we are not investing in justice, that there are problems or that it is not clear. This slide is very clear. I do not think there is any discussion to be held on this point. Mr De Wit, you had a question about phase 1 and phase 2. Until Phase 1 was decided at the Council of Ministers in April. After all, we want to move quickly. We want to be able to spend money this year. This refers to 2021. Phase 2 concerns the royal decision taken by the Council of Ministers of 21 May and concerns part 2021 and part 2022. That is why we have made a distinction there. You say that if you add up everything in relation to the EUR 125 million, there is still money left. That's right, we didn't spend it all. This year we will be making one-shot investments in the area of the EPI, i.e. the prison system, the ICT system, the rule of law, in order to use these funds as well. Let me give you a concrete example: extra wifi in the courthouses. This investment will be made this year, including with the funds that will be spent. You say you can't find that extra room we'd like to set up in the Victims' Fund in the base location. You're wrong. It's in basic allocation 62, program 4. There is very explicit the amount we are spending on the victims of deliberate violence, which will ensure that extra Dutch-speaking chamber. The budget for the Justice Department is rising. You are right to ask whether the other budgets will also increase. Of course, Justice invests more than 16 million euros in the NTSU-CTIF, but Home Affairs also invests 16 million euros. In total, that is EUR 32 million. In addition, there are investments in the FGP. I have pointed out to you on several occasions that there are currently more than 600 vacancies in the FGP. Compared to October, the number of employees in the FGP has already increased steadily. Step by step, the number continues to increase. Mrs. De Wit, you say little respectfully that I give a bag of money to the magistrate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic516x.u14	I didn't say that like that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic516x.u15	You did say that. After months of consultation with the College of Courts and Courts, with the Public Prosecutor's Office, with the Court of Cassation and with the services of the FPS Justice, I find that an unjustified ruling. We didn't choose a linear increase. After months of consultation, we decided to intervene punctually where the needs were highest. That's the first step. The second step is to implement the law on management autonomy by 2024, which assumes that we can complete the workload measurement. My predecessor has given the start to this and the work is currently under way. The College of Courts and Courts will present its first test of workload measurement to us before the summer recess. The other entities are also working on this. It is our ambition to implement effectively the law on management autonomy by 2024 and at that time leave full autonomy to the various entities. It's gonna take his time. I will not wait for the funds to be spent until that is settled. That would mean holding the judiciary hostage, and I don't want that. We're dealing with this in parallel, which is why we're already spending the resources. Those resources are being invested in a smart way. So it's not a 'bag of money given to the magistrate'. If we had wanted to make ourselves comfortable, we would have just increased budgets by 2% linearly for all entities. In that case, you would rightly have a point if you were to say that we do not invest smartly. Now there is investment in consultation with the various actors of justice. This is the result of many months of intense work by my cabinet and the services of justice. Mr Pivin, the figures are clear and this government is carrying out what it has promised, as you say, in a very concrete way after broad consultation with the various actors. This is a radical change from past decades: for the first time, we are investing in justice. It is a collective choice of this government and of all its constituent parties. This is a significant choice: to move from a budget of 2 billion to 2.5 billion in 2024, it is a step forward. You have asked specific questions, in particular regarding State Security. Colleague, Madam President, I would like to answer that specifically because I like to answer specific questions. In your first question, in close consultation with the Sûreté de l'État, we identified with Mr. Raes, deputy head, the exact needs and we went on to find a process that is feasible. We have ensured that we do not impede the normal functioning of the service while strengthening it significantly. The planned reinforcement is in line with the wishes of the department as the competent minister. Once the process is complete, the goal is that the strengthening of the State Security will result in a capacity comparable to that of its foreign counterparts. We will begin this process this year and, in the coming years (2022-2024), we will recruit 135 FTEs per year (in 2022, 270) to reach 1,000 employees by the end of 2024. That's the point. Once again, this is an ambitious path. I know we never did. We have to have a vision and we have the plan. It was carried out by the State Security. We need means: they are there and that was the commitment of this government. It must be carried out, which is the most difficult step in politics. As I said and it is displayed everywhere on the walls of my office (I apologize for saying it in English):execution is everything. You can say, promise and have money, but you still have to execute. This is the big challenge for me, for the State Security, for Mr Jaak Raes and for all those involved. In addition to the gradual development of staff, the emphasis will also be on continuous investment in information technology, with an additional budget of €7.5 million per year for State Security. With regard to your second question, the structure of the State has the firm intention - and I support it in this approach - to employ an additional 135 net full-time equivalents per year. This means that gross recruitment must be increased, since replacements must also be counted, for example because of retirement. As set out in the regulations, recruitment will take place via the Selor. As you've heard, we're going to hire seven more people from the Selor on the justice account to facilitate these recruitments. OCAM, the SGRS and the Sûreté de l'Etat are currently working intensively on the development of a new staff statute. It was also a recommendation of the committee of inquiry in which you participated. We hope to be able to implement this new status from 2023 onwards. It's still a big challenge because we've been discussing it for decades. Under this new statute, special procedures will also be considered in specific cases in order to be able to respond quickly to crisis situations and attract the right profiles. As far as investments are concerned, in terms of information technology, ASBL Smals has been selected as a partner. Smals also supports other security partners. With regard to the recruitment of other specific ICT profiles, the State Security relies on Egov Select's expertise. It is intended to recruit eight to ten specialists per year to contribute to the modernisation of information systems. With regard to your third question and cooperation with partner services on technical issues, I can already tell you that this cooperation is in place and is even becoming increasingly important in this world where the threats are increasingly international and global. The relevant partner services are consulted and there are intensive exchanges on many substantive and operational issues. We also conduct regular comparative analyses with foreign partner services regarding the work processes and the material organization of the service. International cooperation will be further enhanced by the deployment of so-called liaison officers to some countries. Currently, the Sûreté has a liaison officer in the Netherlands, as part of its multilateral cooperation, and a liaison officer in Washington as a pilot project in bilateral cooperation. The Sûreté is in the process of assessing in which other countries a liaison officer could add value to the performance of the duties and statutory tasks of the service, while taking into account the priorities set. To this end, management is naturally studying the possibilities of cooperation with Defence, police and foreign affairs. If the evaluation of the test phase is positive, a first permanent liaison officer will be deployed abroad in 2022, a second in 2023 and a third in 2024. As far as your fourth question is concerned, with an amendment to the law on intelligence services that will soon be presented to Parliament - this has been done since the Council of Ministers on 28 May - virtual agents will be able to use a false profile to be active on closed internet forums and thus come into contact with targets and their environment. In order to maintain their credibility in these forums, they will have the opportunity to buy fake documents, to like extremist messages or to transfer a small or large sum of money, for example. In this way, we are strengthening the Security's position, but of course it is still under the control of the BIM Commission, as you know very well. Technical investment is also needed to further develop online activities. The Sûreté was already one of the intelligence services with an internationally recognized record in its field. It must continue to be up to this position. With regard to your last question, the 7.5 million annual budget covers not only investments in hardware but also, among other things, software licenses and the recruitment and remuneration of IT staff. Priority will be given to the continuation of implementation developments for the establishment of the new Central Secure Data Bank of the State Security, i.e. the Secure Internal Agency platform of data collection and process, a data bank with the standards of a European intelligence service that will enable the collection, integration and exploitation of all data to support these missions and facilitate the exchange of secure data with its partners. Supporting the platform involves continuing to strengthen the IT infrastructure of the State Security, in particular for the extension of its data centre and calculation centre or the consolidation of classified networks and security systems. Finally, this budget also includes the necessary appropriations for recruitments, i.e. eight or even ten full-time staff per year, specifically for ICT staff to have an ICT organisation within the Sûreté in a position to manage this platform in an autonomous and sovereign manner. Mr Pivin, these are the answers to the questions you asked, particularly on State Security. You see this is a great ambition. I think that was one of the recommendations of the well-known committee of inquiry. I know very well what the challenges are. Recruiting people at such a speed is a very big one. The deputy head is very aware of this. It's a collective responsibility, but my firm is also working hard on it. Mrs Dillen, you start by saying that it is a pity that I gave the scoop to the press. If the Council of Ministers decides anything, then Ministers can tell us something about it afterwards. It is, of course, up to Parliament to comment on this. That is the custom in our country, and I have just respected that custom, unless you want there to be no more press conferences after ministerial councils, but that would be a very strange signal. The government has the right to communicate its decisions and on the state of play, such as a preliminary draft, which is commented on by a minister and which is then presented and dealt with in Parliament. That was your only formal comment; otherwise, I am happy to answer your questions in substance. You say it's hard to find 827 people. There is talk of emptying and vacant places that are not filled. I know it will be a very big challenge. I have also said this to the people of the judicial order. They ask for more resources and people and we give them them too, but now we have to do everything we can to ensure that they do so. Employer branding is crucial. I don't want to compare the law to a company, because a company has a completely different finality. Mrs De Wit said that I am good at branding and marketing; that is also important. We must ensure a modern and fresh appearance of justice. We are. I refer to the new look and feel of the FPS Justice Department. You should have, after the dying swan has disappeared. We need to show that as an employer, the Justice Department is committed to quality people. Mr Segers has already referred to the issue of talent, and you said yourself, Mrs Dillen, that it is a fantastic job. It is, it is one of the most beautiful and noble jobs in our society. However, it is not an easy job, because magistrates are criticised from all sides today when they make a statement. They are criticized by everyone. Some are even mentioned by name and by name on the internet. By employee branding we have to make a difference. The number of participants in the exams has increased at the moment, Mrs Dillen. At present, as many as 450 candidates have applied for the professional examination. It's been five or six years since so many other candidates responded to a call. We have also taken this approach when publishing the vacant places. We will register participants and graduates of the exam for the Supreme Court of Justice to inform them about the places that will be published in June. In consultation with the Supreme Court of Justice, which plays a crucial role in this, we have decided that the participants in the professional examination will be able to postulate for the places published in June, even though they do not yet know the outcome of their examination. If they pass the examination, their files can be submitted to the appointment committee of the Supreme Court immediately in October or November. In this way we will gain valuable time and we will be able to fill the vacant places to the maximum. We are not just recruiting magistrates, of course, and we are not just focusing on the legal profession, Mr Dillen. Students can also get to work in the judicial system. You have seen that we will invest in additional criminologists, including in the case of intra-family violence, a crucial issue on which your colleague Mr Bury often speaks. I would also like to refer to the concrete example of the Antwerp parquet, which even during the covid crisis participated proactively in digital job fairs of student associations, colleges and universities, with results, because a while ago there were 259 candidates for 7 places of criminologist at the Antwerp parquet. So I would not dare to say that justice is not an attractive employer. You may say that it has to do with Antwerp and not with Justice. That is possible, or perhaps it is a combination of the two, but at least 259 candidates for seven places mean that justice is on the right track. You have asked what to imagine with 300 employees for support. It's about administrative staff. We do take into account evolving tasks. Digitalisation reduces the number of purely administrative tasks and also the workforce needs to evolve. So we're looking for more profiles of levels A, B and C, which can provide not only administrative, but also substantive support to the magistrates. The time of classical sticking, with envelopes and court letter will gradually disappear and we will increasingly evolve into substantive jobs in that support. We're probably not gonna take Level D anymore. There must be fewer letters in envelopes and fewer files from one place to another. You also asked a question about 50 people specifically for the legal disadvantage. Of these 15 go to Brussels and 35 to the other districts. Who will do the division? That is not the Minister of Justice, but the College of the Courts and the courts will decide that. This will also be the case for the additional places in the labour law courts and the company courts. This is where autonomy plays an increasingly important role. It is they who will take such decisions, not the Minister of Justice. There is the question about managers, which is indeed a huge breakthrough for the years-old promise. It is true that for years there has been a call for a manager to be placed next to the Chief Constable and the Magistrate, who deals with the management of the entity. This concerns specifically the preparation of management plans, personnel policy, operating costs, workload distribution and organisation. Mrs Dillen, the intention is that we should relieve the magistrates of the management tasks so that they can deal solely with their core tasks. The manager who is next to it must be someone with the right manager profile and do what needs to be done, namely to ensure that things run more efficiently, that staff are recruited more quickly and that things are better managed. The idea has been circulating for many years. Now we will be able to make that idea possible thanks to the additional resources for justice. There is also your question about the new functions of the penitentiary staff. The current function will evolve into two specialised functions, namely a function security and a function detention guidance and personal security, which will not be on the section, but will work with staff themselves. That's what we want to do. Especially that last group, the guidance, will be given a different job filling, working actively with inmates and assisting them daily in life in prisons. This is separate from the PSD, which makes expert reports and draws up the detention plans. What will change is that there will be much more communication and cooperation between detention counselors, who are close to the prisoners, and the PSD, as both groups will work with the detainees. We will thus be able to draw up and follow up much easier detention plans. You also asked a question about the uniforms, which you adorned. After all, you have already spoken about this here in committee. It is also a question of legitimate concerns. Of course, part of the uniform will be provided by the employer. These are pieces that are crucial for recognizability in the workplace. They are important to safety. I'm thinking upper garments, like a pull, a shirt or a polo. We provide for a new uniform with also a new logo "Employer branding," ladies and gentlemen, to measure the profession's modern image. In addition, the penitentiary staff will receive a flat-rate fee for buying pants and shoes. These pieces are much less important for the recognizability of the workplace. Of course, they will have to respect directives. It must be dark blue pants and not jeans and black or brown shoes. We have made that choice, because delivery of trousers and shoes in practice causes a lot of problems. In addition, employees increasingly prefer to buy footwear themselves, as this is more suited to their comfort. I come to the questions about digitisation and the different phases. Those phases are indeed largely overlapping. It's not like we don't realize phase 2 until after phase 1. For example, laptops will be made available continuously in 2021 and 2022. People are already working on that. The other steps are all linked together and their delivery will be phased out in the coming years. So we want to achieve innovation step by step and not go for one big big bang at some point. Colleague Nonees is right. We will not go ras-le-bol in the field of computerization at Justice. Our predecessors have tried this in the past and it has not succeeded. I'll come back to the specific questions about MACH and others. At the moment, a concrete action plan is being developed with several internal experts, with a great deal of attention being paid to this phased approach, so that we can achieve a continuous renewal. Mr Dillen, I am certainly prepared to give some more information and explanation in a committee and to enter into the discussion. As for the question about the digital file, the digital criminal file is now only accessible to lawyers via the kiosk PC at the Registry, if it is scanned through the JustScan application. A multidisciplinary working group with magistrates and lawyers finalised its work to modernise that application by the end of March 2021. The results of the working group are now being analysed in the light of the new IT projects and will therefore be financed by European funds. After all, JustScan is based entirely on scanned files, while everyone realizes that this is the best second. What we need to do is to ensure that one can receive minutes digitally. Since a royal decision on the digital signature for the police is ready for signature, we are very close to receiving police reports digitally. They will be consulted through the viewer for digital criminal records, which will be finalised by the end of 2021 and will be used for the Vulnerable Persons project. We are now aligning the Inbox inventory and JustScan project to ensure that both scanned files and digitally received files can be consulted by lawyers from 2022 via Just-on-Web. Just-on-Web will be active by the end of 2021; in a first phase, only victims of sexuality and intra-family violence will have access to the criminal record. In the middle of 2022, Just-on-Web should also be accessible to other files. You also asked the question about victims of sexual violence who are already able to consult their files digitally this year. Here too we go step by step. In a first phase, the verdict will be digitally accessible on Just-on-Web in the course of July 2021. That's next month. That scares me. By the end of 2021, we will provide that the various procedural documents in the file will also be digitally accessible. Below we understand police pvs, subpoenas and possible conclusions. Indeed, we are digitizing the files on victims of sexual violence and intra-family violence as a priority, because I do not need to point out that as a criminal lawyer - there is the greatest urgency. For them, digital work will continue on the digital pv and the improved exchange of data between the police and the Justice Department. Fast, accurate and digital data exchange is crucial in these phenomena. In consultation with the various actors, it will determine what will be included in the digital file and who will have access to it. After all, some photos can be very delicate. I'm sure we're not going overboard here. Together with the business and the various actors, we describe what the dossier should include and how it can be made available. Which brings me to your questions about digitization in prisons. The budget of EUR 7 million is the budget for 2022. We will register more money for the further elaboration in 2023 and 2024. In total, we are spending EUR 15 million from the European Fund for the project. Additional costs for the maintenance of the system will be borne by our regular loans. In other words, Mr Dillen, there will be a sufficient budget for development, implementation and maintenance. The platform will be consultable in all prisons. Then we come to your questions about the master plan. For Antwerp, the jury completed the analysis of the offers. The file will now be forwarded to the Treasury Inspectorate of the Buildings and Justice Directorate. The award will be submitted to the Council of Ministers just before or just after the summer recess. We have good hopes that the first stone will be laid in 2022, but that will of course depend on obtaining the permits. There is a deadline of about three years, so we can no longer complete it in this legislature. That's the time it takes to build a good prison. About the budget for second-line assistance, the Van Hecke law has an impact on the increase in court fees. That increase was already calculated for 2021 and funds were also provided for in the framework of budgetary control. I explained at that time that it concerns EUR 6.6 million. So it is clearly about another budget line. Mrs Dillen, you have also asked a question about quick court hearings, referring to the practice in Antwerp. You spoke about a very specific case, but as Minister of Justice I cannot comment on that particular case of a party with 15 people. It would be incredible, of course, if I knew all the files of justice and always had a judgment on them. That was not your question, of course, but I would like to tell you, Mrs Dillen, that in an individual case it is the magistrate, whether it is the seat or the prosecutor, who is independent. According to Article 151 of the Constitution, it is also the College of Attorneys General which determines the policy of prosecution. As a result, a uniform policy is applied to all parquets. The COL 6/2020, which was constantly modified, was a model of this. Of course, each parquet has the opportunity to lay its own accents according to the needs on the premises. It is then up to a magistrate to give a ruling and he or she will always take account of the facts, the context, the perpetrator and the victim. As Minister of Justice, I am the first to respect that. That's the way it's supposed to be. You also talked about quotas. As you will understand from my explanatory statement, road safety is a very important issue for the government. We have an inning rate of 93 % thanks to the Crossborder system, which is really spectacular, but I have to say that a lot of route checks are still more disabled than switched on or not functioning. The same applies to speed cameras. Certain police areas are even faced with quotas: if they have written enough CVs, they must stop the presses. That is a very strange policy of persecution. We want to get rid of that; we therefore provide for a huge increase in the processing capacity of the prosecutor and of the courts and courts. We will, of course, also work with colleagues from the Interior in the area of regional processing centres and with colleagues from the Communities on a chain-oriented approach to the perpetrators of traffic offences. Thanks to the action plan to increase the chances of catching up, we will also see an improvement on these dossiers. Mrs. Dillen, I have a scoop for you, by the way. We are already seeing an increase in the number of road offences findings in 2021. Our approach is starting to work. We don't do that to get more money. We do this in order to teach people that road safety benefits people and that speeding is a danger to weaker road users. Mrs Dillen, those were the answers to the questions you asked. I don't think I've forgotten anything. I now come to Mr Koen Geens' questions. Ladies and gentlemen, you will forgive me if I listen with even bigger ears, when Mr None speaks in the light of all the experience he has, the much work he has done, and the initiatives he has taken, which allow me to produce results today during the present legislature. For example, the launch of the IT system on 1 June 2021 in the area of provisional directors is the credit of Mr Geens. The fact that we can roll out the project Code 37 with the Antwerp parquet and the NICC is the merit of Mr Geens. So there are many points in which we can now move forward through his efforts. Mr Nones, I am of course at the disposal of the committee to discuss the subject and the budget in greater detail. I have indicated that recruitment of staff is the major challenge. Execution is everything . How can people be recruited for a government and certainly for a department that is not the best in terms of image compared to finance at the moment? I have just given figures, for example to Mrs Dillen, who prove that a turnaround might be possible. We will do so by strengthening our internal services at the Justice Department, such as the P & D department, where we have appointed a new director. She's a wonderful lady. I will mention her name, namely Sarah Blancke, who comes from SNCB and a number of other services. It does a great job to strengthen the P & D service and to recruit more and faster. We will work with Selor, where we will place seven people, specifically to be able to recruit faster. My fellow Minister for the Interior and Sammy Mahdi of Asylum and Migration are doing exactly the same thing. The latter gave us the tip, by the way. So, Mr Nonees, in the government we learn from each other. The recruitment of staff will indeed be a major challenge. We are also talking about the status of magistracy, which is a very difficult debate, which you also followed and conducted at the time. After all, we must ensure that everything remains in balance, which is not so obvious. If we succeed in making progress, including in digitalisation and the modern new working environment, then I think we can convince young people to take the step. With regard to the second question on ICT, namely the SIDIS Suite application, I apologize for the way I expressed myself. The problem of that application was explicitly raised by Rudy Van De Voorde, the director of EPI, when I visited a certain prison. He asked for a new system to be put in place. I speak under his approval eye. SIDIS Suite had a monopoly position. There was also no contractual basis for the system, which is why we need to set up something new now. I am not one of those who condescend on this, quite the contrary. My spokesman, Mr Edward Landtsheere, has always been MACH's greatest defender, which has existed since 1992. It is true that the look and feel date back to the 1990s. Certain courts still work with F1 and F2. I don't know if there are any computers left with those keys. That's not the case on my computer anymore. If that's the case, I'd suggest you buy a new computer. We won't just slide MACH aside and start all over again. MACH is used today by 53% of courts and courts. In the 47% other courts and courts we will work on a new system. At the same time we will give MACH a new look and feel and then try to make them work together. So we're going to take steps to solve the problem. The major challenge will be to create a platform that is flexible and takes into account the different work processes, including within the same entities. Fortunately, software development has changed completely. There used to be a big system that wasn't flexible. You should use it. Today, the new systems manage to simply add, extract and combine building boxes. It's similar to Lego or Playmobil. So one can combine things and therefore make much faster progress. For example, Microsoft built a health cloud in the health crisis, a 20 billion euro project. As a result, several departments have been able to switch very quickly in the fight against COVID-19. So that's the road we need to take. Fortunately, today's ICT operation is completely different from that of the 1990s and 2000s, when there were Phenix and Cheops among others. Mr Segers, as far as detention and transition houses are concerned, there are two pilot projects in Edingen and Mechelen, the pilot phase of which normally ends at the end of this year. We'll have to convert it into final trajectories. We have the ambition to get to 60 or 70 places in the transition homes in the coming years. In the meantime, we have heard from a number of mayors that there is an interest in converting an existing building, for example an old residential centre or a youth centre, into a detention house. Like you, I am convinced that the detention homes, based on Scandinavian experience in a number of publications, are the future to reduce the relapse rate. You also mentioned human trafficking and smuggling. Not everything is a matter of additional resources. Trafficking and smuggling in human beings are absolute priorities for us and we are taking action. This concerns better coordination and cooperation between the various services such as the police and the DVZ. In this respect, we have worked hard over the past few months, with talent from our cabinet and Brandon, on a new action plan against trafficking in human beings and smuggling, which we will be happy to present to you. At the same time, we are also working on a more targeted search. Last week we gave sessions to 300 agents to stress the need for information gathering on the ground among the victims. Just by analysing the information on the phones, we can better map smuggling networks. In recent weeks we have also reorganised the training of the first-line magistraat. That's very important. In addition, the federal court, which deals with cross-border international cases of trafficking in human beings, is strengthened. You referred to the lady who succeeds at the federal courthouse and I have also met prosecutor Demeester in West Flanders. We're providing 35 extra people to follow the complex files of the federal prosecutor's office. I conclude with the statement by Mrs Matz, who welcomed the additional resources. I understand that she wanted to ask questions later. I remain at the disposal of the committee and its chairman in order to debate it and to provide it with answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic516x.u16	Mr. Secretary, you can keep trying to piss me off, but you won't be able to do that soon. If your predecessor, Mr Geens, says he's lost track, you call that a pertinent question. However, if I say that your figures and statements are incorrect, you say that I do not understand. I regret that you make such statements. In fact, you blame me for not asking any substantive questions, even though you know that during the two previous budget negotiations I have covered almost every article. However, I can ask as many substantive questions as I want, it is about the figures that are on paper. After all, this is not a debate on your policy paper, it is a debate on the figures needed to deliver what you promise. Don't get me wrong, I sincerely hope that you will deliver on many of those things because there are good things in them. When I'm talking about giving a bag of money, of course, that's not meant to be disrespectful. I'm sorry to hear you make that out of it. I mean that giving money is not enough; it must be allocated in the right place. That was my point. You say that everything is in order and that I should read it better. What is the situation here, however? We have the November budget, the April budget control and your schedules. Isn't that right? These are the budgetary documents that are before us. We know that some of your schedules will be supplemented by the interdepartmental commission and that some will come from Europe. These are the documents in which we must find everything. Last time I said something wasn't in the budget, you said it was coming out of the commissions and we'd get the schedules. I have the schematics here and I'll take a look at the pro bono section for example. In 2021, there was already 45 million plus, and just now you were talking about 6.6 million. Can I ask you, in a very specific way, under what allocation can I find the 6.6 million or the 45 million? Where does it say that? You should explain this to me, because the 45 million is not in the technical budget of April. On the contrary, there goes from allocation to legal assistance. If I look at both your KB and your schedules, I can see some allocations I can't bring home. I can't find them in your budget either. It's not in there. In one place it is in your schedules, where an amount of 1,046.000 euro is provided. So this is a very specific question. Under which allocation do I find the budget for pro bono for 2021? There's nothing there. I only see an increase of EUR 1 million for 2022. We can only do it with the documents we get, Minister. That's what I got, and that's why I need to find it here. The same applies to the Victims' Fund. I went to check that out, because you say I didn't read that correctly. It's about allocation 4. I ask you once again very clearly what allocation is involved, because the Victims' Fund is under allocation 62.43. No budget change has taken place in the further allocations. For the Victim Fund, no budget changes have been made to your technical budget of April. In the assignments up there, I'll find extra money, but that's about something else. Under allocation 62.43 I find no additional resources in your KB and in your schedules. Then may I ask what allocation it is under, Minister? I'm not gonna say it's not in there, but under 62.43 there's nothing. You may have other schedules that I don't have here, but I don't see those funds, unless it's in 62.44, but in 62.43, specifically for the Victim's Fund, there's nothing. You cannot expect me to know immediately from the outside in a presentation we are getting today all the assignments that are indicated at the bottom. You cannot expect us to know immediately what these funds are intended for on the basis of a schedule of columns and numbers. This concerns two concrete examples. You shouldn't do that right now, but get me those assignments. Then I can check it out, because according to the schedules that are going on today, there is no money. Maybe it'll come. It is perhaps very easy to say that I am right and that everything is not yet 125 million, that there is still 10 to 15 million left and that this money will be invested later this year. I want to believe you, and I hope it's true. Every million that can be correctly allocated to the Justice Department will benefit its operation. Then I guess there's another KB or something new. Indeed, the figures for 2021 will still not be complete as of today. You can agree to that or not and say that I don't understand. As Mr Geens says, it is interesting to have a very clear and precise debate on this, perhaps to have a good look at all the allocations. However, I have to go on with the schedules that you are making available to me, and it is not always clear or always clear. It is a great pity that I took the trouble to go through it in November, in April and tonight, after we got the schedules late last night. I had asked them specifically Friday through my question. It is not really serious that you should make such a comment now. I really regret that. We have always been constructive, even as an opposition party. We're trying to do that right. I regret that you are dealing with this in this way, and the work you are trying to do is ludicrous. Mr Geens' suggestion is particularly useful in this respect. All the better if you can give me those assignments today. I regret that they are not on the data that we have received today as a Member of Parliament, unless they are on a new or different number, but I am very happy to hear it. Then it would be very interesting that if you were to deliver documents to Parliament, perhaps you would also provide some explanations. That's what we do in our city council, and that's what I asked you last time. That avoids a lot of misunderstandings. That might be useful. That didn't happen, and I don't blame you. It's working against the clock for everyone, but don't come off with comments like that. I very much regret that. Minister, we will certainly follow up on this further. I still have a lot of questions to ask and they will certainly follow at another time, and in a different way.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic516x.u17	Madam President, Minister, I would like to thank you for your very detailed answer, which I will certainly give and compare in detail with the priorities you have announced in your policy paper and your policy statement. In order for there to be no misunderstanding, I still have one comment. As a result of your announcement of the rapid handling of common forms of crime by the public prosecutors, I have given a specific example. I do not, of course, ask you to comment on individual dossiers. You can't do that, by the way. I only gave it as an example. It is indeed up to the College of Attorneys General to develop a certain policy of prosecution. That's not your job or your job. However, it is important to ensure that the same treatment is provided for similar crimes. Otherwise, I believe that this offence is quite rightly regarded as absolutely unjust by the offender himself, especially when it comes to a first offense and especially when it comes to young offenders who still have a professional career to develop and for whom a criminal record could hypothesize such a career, as I have mentioned in my example. But again, I did not mean for you to express a specific opinion on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic516x.u18	I would like to reply to Mr De Wit. I have given an explanation here with clear slides, with the basic allocation at the bottom. A long time has been devoted to the presentation, to explain very clearly what budget corresponds to which priority. You are welcome to look at our policy statement and policy paper. We work very schematically. That's what I learned from my intern at the time, which is to use the same schematics all the time, so that it's clear and clear. We did. You are right to ask a number of questions, but I can answer you that there is no discussion. The amount of EUR 6.6 million relating to court fees is reflected in the budgetary control that we explained a few weeks ago. In particular, it concerns code 5603121140. Below you will find the court fees. Your second question concerns the extra room for the Commission for Financial Aid to the Victims of Intentional Violence and to the Occasional Saviors. I'll tell you where you'll find the information on that. Under department 12 which is Justice Department 62, program number 4 is shown activities 0, 1, 2 and 2. That's a total of four rows. It concerns the basic allocations 110003, 121101, 742201 and 742204 that will cover the funds that we will invest in 2021 in the Commission for Financial Aid to the Victims of Intentional Violence and to the Occasional Saviors. In the scheme that has not yet resulted in a royal decision, because that is the responsibility of the FOD BOSA, not mine..... is located at the bottom of the allocation 12624........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ On the next page is the top of the basic allocation 126241121101 for 3,000 euros. The next allocation is 12624433001 for 300,000 euros. Those three amounts constitute the commitment appropriations and the settlement appropriations for 2022 for the Financial Aid Commission to the Victims of Intentional Violence and to the Occasional Saviors.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic516x.u19	Mr Minister, I will have to look into it on the basis of the report, because I have to cruise between three different documents. From one of the numbers you quote, the code didn't appear in the technical budget. There was a question mark in my mind. If it's what you say, it's fine. It was a nice presentation but a presentation is not yet a budget document. You cannot expect me to be able to put the right allocations with the text right away while you are proposing them. That's gonna take a little more work. That's what I meant when I said I didn't think it was serious that it had to be done this way. This is, after all, too important and too essential to repeat it in this way. That's what I said. I do not want to undermine the work that has been done, but not everything is in the same way in the schemes that are now under way. I've worked everything out. Not everything is as easy to find in it. If you had given us the presentation in advance, it might have made a difference. However, I understand that this did not happen because you wanted to communicate them to the media first this morning. Then you can't blame me for asking questions about it either. Moreover, I do not think it is serious that you should take that fact into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic516x.u20	I think we can conclude this exchange of views.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic516x.u21	Mr Parent is not present.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic516x.u22	Minister, over the past few days, the Lantin Prison Supervision Commission and the doctors at this institution have sounded alarms about the reality of the field and the quality of health care in the prison world. They focus on the shortage of staff as well as on the computer program "Epicure", which has become obsolete and which affects the quality of care: prescription errors, computer breakdowns, impossible access to the health network and vaccination data for prisoners and I pass it. In addition, it appears that the programme is struggling to account for benefits and that, as a result, wages are reduced. The situation becomes so critical that many doctors eventually leave the ship and have chosen to use their right to strike. Minister, how can the working conditions of prison doctors be improved in the near future? What about the evolution of the computer and logistical resources available to caregivers in prisons? Are there prospects for modernisation in the short term? What about the possible recruitment of doctors to increase prison teams? How can we make the function attractive and ensure that doctors do not desert prisons? What are the possible valuations? Finally, can you provide an update on the discussions regarding the transfer of jurisdiction from prison to the Department of Public Health?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic516x.u23	Minister, you were arrested in November 2020 by the team of general practitioners at the Lantin Prison and the Paifve Social Defence Institution. In a letter, they asked for a re-evaluation of the function of doctor within the prison system. Moreover, their working conditions have not improved with the health crisis we are experiencing — quite the contrary. This improvement requires an increase in salaries, adapted medical management software, measured administrative burdens and consistent freedom of prescription. The mail has come to you well, since you have acknowledged receipt of it. However, physicians are still waiting for concrete responses and initiatives. Indeed, their profession requires a great sense of adaptability. They put up double bites during the health crisis in order to continue to provide all care in prisons under unobtrusive conditions. It is legitimate for them to expect better and more than a consideration of their mail. Minister, do you confirm the situation of doctors in prisons? Did you establish a new contact with the doctors' team following their last letter of June 1, 2021? What concrete measures will you put in place to improve the working conditions of doctors in prisons? Are measures in place? If so, what is the deadline? A few minutes ago, we talked about the budget and the importance of upgrading functions. Is this part of your budget recovery plans?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic516x.u24	Madam Chair, Minister, it has been planned to transfer the management and organization of corrections medical care to the Public Health FPS. Indeed, the Centre d'Expertise des Cartels de Santé has been recommending, since 2017, this transfer to the Public Health FPS. A roadmap was developed on this subject one year later, in 2018. As we have heard, the situation in some prisons is difficult in terms of access to care or waiting times. This can also be seen in the publication of the report of the Central Prison Supervision Board, specifically with regard to Berkendael, Forest, Antwerp, Mons or Tournai. The pandemic has, of course, demonstrated the specificity of managing health care in prisons. The letter we have recently received is a good example of this. Minister, I heard you on the occasion of the previous presentation on the operating budget of physicians. You're adding 6.7 million euros, if I'm not mistaken, and additional TB testing equipment. These are, of course, advances that must be emphasized and welcomed. Minister, what is the status of transferring the management of general and specialized health care in prisons? How does the transfer of competence develop? Is there a collaboration between the Justice FPS and the Home FPS in place to move towards effective operational management of care by the Health FPS? What services are in charge of this transfer? Have there been any concrete elements in this regard? Do you know of points of difficulty (designation of services, management capabilities, etc.)( )? Have you ever identified a number of difficulties? Given also the difficulties in accessing health care, is organizational and capacity reform implemented in parallel with this transfer? How long will this jurisdiction be effectively exercised by the Public Health FPS? Finally, in connection with your presentation of the previous debate, with regard to the EUR 6.7 million in operation, can you specify the destination of these additional resources? Is this signposted to arrears? What is ultimately the share of arrears today? With regard to the EUR 1 million planned for screening equipment, could you specify what it is for RX equipment requirements?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic516x.u25	Mr Minister, I will not go back to the context that my colleagues have rightly pointed out, but I would like to stress in particular that the situation that these doctors have been reporting today has been for too long, since it was already denounced by the Prison Supervision Commission in 2018, after which my predecessor, Olivier Mangain, visited the prison in Lantin. He had had the opportunity to see the state of disrepair, in particular of the psychiatric annex, but also the remarkable work of the medical staff to better accompany internees who do not have their place in prison. At the time, medical personnel were already very small. Today, it is because doctors have no choice but to make themselves heard with you, minister, that they observe this strike with this consequence, in particular, and although prisoners have only to hope that they will not have a heart attack or thrombosis requiring medical follow-up. The situation is extremely tense, which leads me to ask you my questions which, for some, join those of my colleagues. How do you respond to the requests made by these doctors who have been asking you since November 2020 for more support, but also logistical help, since those who are hired resign one after another in view of their very poor working conditions? Do you consider that it is normal for there to be only one psychiatrist, three mornings a week, for nearly 1,000 inmates, including 40 inmates in the psychiatric annex? They were 24 in December 2018 and I wonder how their number could have increased between December 2018 and today, despite your government's willingness to have them treated in ad hoc institutions and not in prison. Will the medical environment be increased and within what time frame? You told us earlier about your willingness to recruit again. This was already the will of the previous government. He had also made a commitment and was seen: new psychiatric centres were established. What would make the difference today with respect to the promises and commitments made by the previous government that were in the same direction? Concerning the computer program "Epicure", it is completely outdated. Do you confirm that these doctors have been refused to update this program since 2013? What program do other prisons in the country use? With regard to the budget you mentioned, do you consider that it will be sufficient to update this programme properly? Finally, like my colleague Pivin, I must go back to an important point in your general policy note, which is in line with the recommendations of the KCE in 2017: the transfer of health care from inmates from the FPS Justice to the FPS Public Health. Can you give us an update? What initiatives have you taken in this direction, particularly with this latter administration? Do you have a specific timetable for this? I mean, why does it get stuck? Why has this transfer not yet taken place? The budgetary argument has often been raised, which seems to me to be quite inaudible. Indeed, the consequences of poor treatment of detainees will be even more costly from a budgetary, health and social point of view. My speech was a little longer than expected. I'm sorry, but I won't be able to reply later. I've been waiting all afternoon. I will therefore read your answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic516x.u26	Colleagues, I have indeed received a letter from the doctors and the supervisory committee of the Lantin prison. I responded quickly and proposed a meeting that took place on June 14. The consultation between the delegation, my office and the administration of the Directorate-General of Penitentiaries seemed to me to have been constructive, but the delegation informed me on Monday, a little before midnight, that, pending a satisfactory written response from us, it was maintaining the suspension of activities from Tuesday, 15 June. I can only regret this position both in substance and in form. Suspended actions are therefore carried out, but ethics require that continuity of care be respected. The proper functioning of the health services of the prison administration and the adequate remuneration of those who work there is a priority for me. It is precisely for this reason that the reform of these services, their organization and their method of work was included in the federal government agreement on October 1, 2020. In order to implement it, I have instructed my administration to resume the activities of the working groups set up as part of this reform during the previous legislature. At a meeting between Justice and Public Health on 28 May, the vision text developed by the previous steering group was definitively validated and it was decided that the various working groups should resume their activities. The next meeting of the chairpersons of the working groups is scheduled for 23 June. The steering group will also be reconstituted. All those who participated at a previous stage in this steering committee and/or in the various working groups will be invited again. It was decided that the integration of detainees into INAMI would be the first phase and that the subsequent deployment of the care would be done in stages. It will be a multi-year plan. No concrete date can yet be given on this subject even if this dossier is moving forward in a very concrete way. On the one hand, there is the budget and on the other, the reforms to be carried out. With regard to benefits, they will be indexed from 1 June, which had not taken place since 2012. In concrete terms, this represents an indexation of 7.84% for most benefits, including psychiatrists, and 3.1% for nursing and psychotherapists. One of the applications also relates to the computer program used which is in fact outdated. Here, too, I fully support all the advances that favour the digitization of my services. Of course, this includes redesigning the patient's electronic record. The service deserves a program that is easy to use and allows for optimal data exchange with external care providers. A first file for the installation of a new program had been prepared by my predecessor, but at the time the file could not be completed because the company that had tendered for the contract did not have sufficient guarantees. So my administration has finalized a new specification for a new medical program that is not only user friendly, but also a ready-to-use program. In addition to its ease of use, this programme will also be compatible with the e-health platform, so that communication with the prison's external partners can take place quickly and easily, which is not the case today. This new programme will also be used by the Office of Foreigners and the specifications have been developed with its collaboration. The file will be submitted to the Finance Inspectorate again this month. The publication of this specification is therefore expected this summer for a deployment planned for the autumn of 2021. You see, ladies and gentlemen, that it is wrong to think that things are not moving, because many actions are taking place thanks to my office and the administration. They provide and will provide solutions to the problems raised in this letter. But you will agree that steps such as the transfer of health care from prisons to FPS Public health cannot be taken without a necessary reflection and preparation - I have already discussed this at length with my colleague Franck Vandenbroucke. I would add that, at the time of this transfer, the amounts of benefits will also be carefully analysed again. My written letter was sent again today. I'm now waiting for a reaction. I hope that we can continue to work together for long-term solutions without pressure from action. Finally, in response to Mr. Parent's question about the number of psychiatrists in Lantin prison, as at 15 June, the population of this institution was 752 prisoners and 62 prisoners, a total of 814 persons, for whom the prison normally has two psychiatrists and three psychiatrists attached to psychosocial services. I confirm that a care psychiatrist has resigned, and that we are looking for a replacement, as well as a third SPS psychiatrist. As I have already had the opportunity to mention in this committee, unfortunately there is a shortage of psychiatrists on the market. As for the general practitioners attached to the prison, there are 12 of them. As far as the rotation of doctors is concerned, it is limited or very limited. It is rare for a person to resign. Departures are usually due to age. However, it is not always easy to find doctors to replace them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic516x.u27	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic516x.u28	Minister, thank you for your answers. I did not understand why you said that they had maintained their strike action if you presented what you just presented to us. Do you think an indexation adjustment is sufficient for their requests? Or should there be a more fundamental salary increase? There probably remains a stumbling block on this point. I heard you about the IT department and its deployment in the fall. Public procurement procedures prevent moving faster. Transfer to INAMI services also takes time. You have shown a willingness to contact and indicated that care is a priority for you. You're saying we're in a shortage of doctors and psychiatrists. It would be necessary to be inventive and perhaps to make work more attractive for more work to be done. For a prison like Lantin, having two psychiatrists is obviously far too little compared to the prison population. I hope that the written transmission of answers following the negotiation will help to calm things down and that it will satisfy them. Indexing is important, but they were asking for a little more.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic516x.u29	Minister, thank you for your answers. They remain incomplete because this dossier has not yet been completed, far from it. You said earlier, "execution is everything." We are currently discussing your proposal to reform the Criminal Code and, with regard to sexual crime, there is a great deal of recourse to specialized doctors such as psychiatrists. As part of the reform, this idea will have to be kept in mind. It will be necessary to fill the psychiatry gap before any reform projects are undertaken. Otherwise, we will remain in theory. I simply wanted to draw your attention to this concern, which is obvious, but that you will not be able to circumvent if you want to complete the reform of the Penal Code.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic516x.u30	Minister, I am very pleased that you are taking the matter to heart again. The difficulty of such files is that they are discovered by following up with its predecessor and it is normal that it will take a long time before they are completed, in this case before prisoners will be subject to health insurance. In order to strengthen your negotiating position, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that from 2015 I raised the dossier with Mr Vandenbroucke's predecessor and that we have received a study that evaluated the possibilities. Things have been awfully slow. The speeches at the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Public Health did not reassure me that we would make rapid progress on the dossier. Why does that bother me so much? Firstly, it seems to me that the Justice Department will pay the insurance premium. What could health rather have than a minister paying the premium for his 10,000 inmates? Secondly, it is obvious that we will have to move towards the defaitarisation of the wage system of the doctors who treat the prisoners in prisons. But I suppose that too will not be the big problem. If we look at it at the end of the day, the question is how many tens of thousands of people would not benefit from our health insurance without any contributions ever being paid for them. It must be pretty easy to figure that out. In this sense, I think it is very important to make it clear that it is only about ten thousand people, for which the Justice Department will also pay the premium, to give them the right and proper care given to their illness, whether psychological, psychological, psychological or physical. I'm not saying this to make it dramatic, but the number of times I heard in the morning that somewhere in prison someone had committed suicide or asked for an emergency doctor at 4 a.m. and was found dead in his cell at 6 a.m. is pretty high. So it's not about something symbolic. It's about something very important and something very normal. Teachers, MPs, doctors end up in prison. All of our professional categories are getting there. All these people are entitled to health insurance. Justice would normally be able to pay that premium effortlessly, if there is the problem. I really wish this from the bottom of my heart: please help the problem, Minister. I will also ask questions to your colleague from Health. It is essential for the right attitude in our prisons for the future. We have gone a long way with internment, but as far as prisons are concerned, there is still a lot of work to be done. You can't do that, but health needs to help us.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic516x.u31	Madam President, Minister, the first question I tabled is actually about the legal settlement of this matter. In the meantime, we were told that the Foreign Affairs delegation has gone to Syria to prepare the repatriations of these so-called IS-brides. How many of these women have been effectively convicted of membership of a terrorist organization? According to the press, there are 13 Belgian mothers with a conviction, nine of whom would have been convicted and four against whom an international arrest mandate is pending. Has that judgment already entered into force as a res judicata or is this a matter of default against which opposition is still open? Was that foreign affairs delegation accompanied by a bailiff? If so, could the judgments given in absentia be served on those ISIS women? In so far as it concerns default sentences, can those convicted still object? If the court held that the opposition was admissible and at the same time did not rule on the substance of the case, the IS women should be released once again, with all the consequences. The second question, which is logically linked to this, actually includes two questions which I asked the Prime Minister last week in connection with this dossier. However, I did not receive an answer. They seemed important enough to me to get an answer to that. This government first stated that only the children would be brought back, not the mothers. In fact, that's what we're up against. The court said you were right about that, too. On 4 March, Mr De Croo announced in Parliament that it would be considered on a case-by-case basis whether these mothers would return. In the previous series of oral questions, you have asked that the return of the IS mothers should be covered by the argument of national security. It would be better to bring them here than to disappear under the radar. This argument may also be used to bring the other IS men left behind in Syria here in the long term. I asked the Prime Minister last week whether he could expressly rule out this being the intention, but he did not answer that question, which I find disturbing. That's why I'd like to ask you the same question. What guarantee can you give that the men will not be brought to this country in the future as part of the country's security? What is this government going to do in the event that suddenly a male IS terrorist presents himself as the father of a child transferred to Belgium? Can you guarantee that the person concerned will not be brought to Belgium, just like the mothers, for the sake of national security and the greater interest of the child? A second element I raised with the Prime Minister was also not entirely clear to me. If the mother's case is to be brought back on a case-by-case basis, will these cases be assessed against a number of criteria? What criteria exactly apply to decide whether they can return? In the media we could read that a condition is that the person concerned must have renounced IS ideology. How is this criterion to be implemented in concrete terms? Based on what parameters is that assessed? I'm very curious to hear your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic516x.u32	Mrs Pas, first of all I would like to refer to the reply given by the Prime Minister last week in plenary. I also refer to the answer I gave in this committee last week to Mr Metsu's question. He asked me how many children and mothers were involved. I repeat that the National Security Council has decided to bring children under 12 years of age back from the camps in Northeast Syria. The fate of mothers will also be analysed, on a case-by-case basis. A preparatory mission took place for this purpose. So it's about the children and the mothers, not about the others. On the basis of this preparatory work on the ground, a decision will be taken on individual cases. Only then can the exact number of children and mothers to be repatriated be communicated at an appropriate time. For the children, the appropriate measures will be taken by the juvenile court or the juvenile court. As far as mothers are concerned, you know that they will all be taken into custody, either as part of the execution of the sentence or as part of an international arrest mandate of the investigating judge. In the case of absenteeism, in principle, those convicted in absentia may still object. As long as the opposition has not been declared admissible and pending the examination of the opposition on the substance, the person shall remain detained. This is how it has been for the majority of women who have returned in recent years. Moreover, no bailiff took part in the Belgian mission. A Belgian bailiff has no jurisdiction abroad. Moreover, even if we managed to get a judgment in absentia in Syria, this might have the opposite effect of what you are trying to achieve. I refer to a judgment in Liège, in which the judge did not want to deal with an objection procedure initiated by the lawyer of a woman who was still in Syria until the woman had returned. The Belgian Justice has not developed this practice in recent years. Also with regard to women returning from Turkey, a possible in absentia was not served in Turkey. I have already said to Mr Metsu last week that the National Security Council is sticking to its basic position on the trial of foreign terrorist fighters on the ground, that is to say, men. The government's recent decision on the return of children can indeed have an impact on a number of women, depending on the following parameters: the danger to Belgian public safety, the importance of the child in relation to the mother and the practical feasibility. I have already said in the past that the fact that mothers have or have not renounced IS ideology is a factor in this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic516x.u33	Thank you, Minister, for a number of clarifications, but I am not quite clear about the questions I asked the Prime Minister last week and repeated today in an attempt to get a clear answer to them. You're saying that the renouncement of IS ideology is a factor. That is what I asked in my question. However, I have not been given an answer as to how this will be assessed in concrete terms. You're saying now isn't the time to bring those ISIS men here as well. It was not originally intended to do that with the mothers either. Here again you miss the opportunity to give the guarantee and to rule out that this will happen in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic516x.u34	Debates of the European Parliament 55018870C by Mrs Chanson was postponed. Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l 55018977C, 55019015C and 55019017C by Mrs Rohonyi were postponed. We have heard nothing from colleagues Cogolati, Ben Achor and Boukili. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Boukili's 55018947C was postponed. Question No 54, by Mr De Pasquale 55018916C) by Mr Cogolati and others: 55018921C) by Mr Ben Achor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic516x.u35	Minister, on June 1st, the Central Registry of Protected Persons (CPPR) platform was put into operation. It is my practice that it still faces a great many problems today. Thus, as very concrete examples, many administrators of protected persons discover the following errors when filing documents: no data can be saved; the previous year's balances are zero and cannot be changed; deposits are not properly confirmed; administrators do not have access to decisions following the requests they themselves have filed, so that the registries are obliged to send decisions to them by post. The impossibility of preserving documents in a certain and adequate manner, in particular in anticipation of their subsequent recovery in order to rework them, poses real problems, both in terms of efficiency and legal certainty, of which the first victims are protected persons. Such inconveniences also add an unnecessary burden, both for administrators and for judicial bodies. As the law requires professional administrators to submit a paper version of their report to the Register, the Conference of Presidents set up a transitional system, announced on 14 June, based on the principle of flexibility in order to overcome the problem of the RCPP platform. Minister, have you been aware of the problems raised? At the meeting of this committee on 2 June, you indicated that adjustments were still needed. What are they and when should they be brought in? You announced the creation of the task force for this platform. When will she take body? Land stakeholders expressed concerns about the compliance of this platform with respect to privacy, personal data or GDPR. Have any adjustments been made or are they being considered in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic516x.u36	Mr Goffin, thank you for your questions. My administration is already aware of these technical problems. Either they are already resolved or they will have to be resolved in the next updates to the register. The task force I was referring to on June 2nd met the first time on June 4th. The next meeting is being held today. The adjustments to be made to the Central Register of Personal Protection and its access arrangements are discussed, at least in large part, during the various meetings of this Task Force. The main problems encountered in practice are listed, explained and discussed. The members of the Task Force identify solutions and plan short-term actions, either provisionally or definitively. Some of the problems discussed are sometimes solved the same day. This was the case for the acknowledgement of receipt of the filing of the reports with the registries, which you noted in your question. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the problem of filing the reports to which you refer was discussed at the meeting on 4 June. The principle of flexibility announced by the Conference of Presidents was mentioned by the Task Force. Pending technical adaptation, the reports of professional administrators who are required to communicate them via the Central Registry can be filed in PDF format. It seems useful to me to recall the arrangements for access to the register. Access is linked to authentication to establish with certainty, by means of an available computer technique, the identity of the person in an unequivocal manner, i.e. the eID, itsme, lawyer card, number at the Banque Carrefour des Entreprises. In addition, procedural or follow-up documents are not notified by e-mail. When a new document is available in the register, a notification is automatically sent to the persons concerned to inform them of their existence. It is only after authentication that they will be able to access these documents. New filters will be added to those already existing to refine this authentication control, when the registry is next updated.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic516x.u37	I thank the Minister for his comprehensive reply and I am pleased to note, which is not surprising to me, that he is obviously attentive to this problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic516x.u38	Minister, following the tragic events in Ghent recently, the press has reported an absolutely appalling statistic about the number of rapes. It would appear that there are an average of more than four complaints per week of rape in our country. And even more so, according to the figures in my possession, only 10 to 15 per cent of the victims would file a complaint, which suggests an extremely and far too large number of rapes in our country. You announced at last week's committee meeting a series of measures to combat the problem of rape, which I am obviously delighted to hear. But the events in Ghent also give rise to a problem: rape committed by minors. Minister, what is the proportion of victims of underage gang rape? Similarly, what is the proportion of perpetrators of underage gang rape? Do you see an upward trend in this regard in recent years? How many underage perpetrators have been prosecuted for rape by the Public Prosecutor's Office in the same way as an adult following a divestiture of the Youth Court? How do you intend to deal specifically with the problem of rape committed by minors?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic516x.u39	Mr Goffin, you have a joint question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic516x.u40	Indeed, Madam President, I come to it immediately. Minister, as I did in my previous question, I am going back to the tragic events in Ghent. They highlighted the problem of the dissemination of images and videos of rape on social networks. This is a social media drift that must be stopped because the consequences of these broadcasts are numerous and harmful. It thus creates an additional penalty for the victims who, in addition to the ignoble aggression they have suffered, see the latter exposed and thrown into the sight of all. This obviously only worsens their suffering and prevents a healing process that is known to be long and difficult. Minister, my questions are concrete. What measures do you intend to take in this specific case? You said you had a first Facebook meeting on this subject. What have been the results? Have any measures been taken in consultation with Facebook? Have you participated in similar meetings with other major social networks such as Snapchat or Instagram?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic516x.u41	My colleague, it is possible, on the basis of the information available in the General National Data Bank, to draw up a statistical report on the acts of gang rape. The definition of this type of fact is as follows: "any rape involving more than one perpetrator". There are 39 incidents of gang rape of minors registered for the first three quarters of 2020, representing 32 per cent of the total number of gang rapes recorded for the same period. In 2019 and 2018, there are 86 and 87 facts, respectively, representing rates of 41% and 38% respectively. With regard to single suspects registered in the area of gang rape, approximately 35% of suspects registered in 2018 and 2019 are under age. For the first three quarters of 2020, they are almost 32%. The absolute figures for the number of incidents of mass rape of underage victims appear to show stability for the years 2018 and 2019. For the first three quarters of 2020, 39 facts were re-recorded, but it should be noted that for this type of fact, a declaration is often made late. Therefore, these figures must be interpreted with the necessary caution. Although statistics cannot be requested and communicated via an oral question, I must add that the Public Prosecutor's Office does not have operational IT tools capable of providing the requested figures within such a short period of time. I would therefore like to ask you a written question on this subject. I will not fail to provide you with the desired figures. As I pointed out last week in the current day's debate, sexual violence is a priority for the police and justice services. This also applies, of course, to rape committed by minors. Cooperation agreements on the treatment and guidance of offenders are under review – the one with Flanders also focusing on juvenile offenders through projects such as Exit Brugge and ITER, which are centres for sexual offenders. Prevention is better than cure. We cannot underestimate the importance of prevention. In this context, reference can be made to the "Stop it now" project. I have already had the opportunity to refer to the use of a system of flags, as proposed by SENSOA during last Wednesday's current affairs debate. Thanks to the cooperation between the various partners and political levels, the justice system has been in contact with SENSOA for years and is very familiar with the tool of the juvenile reporting system. An extension of this to adults can certainly prove useful to help people make the right choices in respectful mutual sexual contacts. For justice, it can be an important preventive tool. Sexual violence is often a subject with a grey area, which can lead to speaking-in-talk situations. On the legislative front, I believe that Parliament has done good work in recent years to ensure that the dissemination of such images and the phenomenon of doxing are punished. Within the Federal Police, DGSOC has the i2-IRU section, which searches for illegal content on the Internet, especially on social networks. The content is then reported to the platforms with a view to requesting its removal. When a Belgian interest is discovered, legal proceedings are initiated to identify the publisher. This section of DGSOC is present on Telegram as part of its research on illegal content, at least with regard to open source content. Anything that is not open source and/or freely accessible is regulated by law and subject to the authorization of a magistrate. With regard to your second and third questions, we are working with the Institute for Equality between Women and Men on adults and with Child Focus on minors in order to remove illegal content online as soon as possible. It is important to act as quickly as possible because we must prevent these images from circulating, otherwise the harm is already done. Victims who use Google must fall faster on the right website of the Institute or Child Focus. By being good trusted flaggers, they benefit from the trust of many media giants who work directly with Google, YouTube, Facebook, Instagram, TikTok and many others. Thanks to this position, we are able to ensure that some images are removed from the net much faster than usual. This is important and we wish to continue to work on this point.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic516x.u42	Minister, thank you for your answers.
