ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u1	Madam Minister, by judgment 05/2021 of 14 January, the Constitutional Court annulled the compensation scheme proposed by the Flemish Government for the transition to digital meters for prosumers. This seems to be a purely regional issue, but the federal government has also played a role in this. By application of 5 December 2019, the Federal Council of Ministers requested the destruction of Article 42 of the decree in question, which specifically refers to the 15-year period during which, for the production plants with a power capacity of up to 10 kWh, the injection of electricity is deducted from the reduction, which is more or less what is commonly referred to as "the reverse counter'. Now that, after the intervention of the federal government, the scheme was abolished on the basis of the destruction of that Article 42, it should be possible for the Federal Minister of Energy to make an assessment of the intervention and the result achieved. As I read the judgment, the petition alone was sufficient to bring about the destruction of the article. I do not wish to rule out in advance that a similar conclusion would not have been reached on the basis of the other petitions. The scheme was also challenged by, among other things, a number of regulators and interest groups. However, they are largely outside your direct competence, so you do not have to evaluate that part or the opportunity for those groups to challenge the article. What assessment do you make of the federal powers of the judgment in question? Has the objective of the application of 5 December 2019 been fully achieved as far as you are concerned? What are the consequences of the destruction of transmission network tariffs and the VAT revenues of the federal government? Is it your intention to take consistently similar steps against other regulatory initiatives that would reduce the taxable basis for transmission network tariffs? Does this also apply to existing systems in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u2	Madam Minister, this has been outlined by Mr Wollants. The petition was sent on 5 December 2019 through the Federal Council of Ministers. I was only a Member of Parliament a few months ago and had not had the habit of looking at the minutes or the agenda of the Federal Council of Ministers on a weekly basis. So it happened a little "in the dive." I don't mean that pejoratively. The petition has been filed in a tough manner. Then Minister Marghem made very little noise about it. Of course, the transitional measure of the reverse counter had an impact on transmission network tariffs. That way, there was just less revenue for the federal government. The side effect of the judgment is that there will be additional revenue for the federal government as a result of the gross decrease. In other words, the whole story also revolves around the federal contribution and VAT. You have stated that you are not responsible for the substance of the matter, which is the debacle around the solar panels, as we may call it. However, you have already profiled yourself around the return contracts. For example, you were present at the presentation of Decathlon's initiative to convert solar surpluses into solar bonuses. So you do show a great deal of commitment. Finally, Madam Minister, I would like to confront you with the Walloon example. The Walloon government is also planning a transitional arrangement similar to the one that was destroyed last month for Flanders. What is the federal government's position on the Walloon way of working, where the energy regulator CWaPE has also stated that it is not in favour of the transitional regime? However, that regulator does not plan any legal action.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u3	Madam Minister, a great deal has already been said about the destruction of the virtual reverse counter by the Constitutional Court. First of all, I conclude that the Flemish government's bad work was: all the flashing lights were on orange, but she pushed through that arrangement anyway. The consequences are, of course, much more difficult. Many Flemings have made investments with that deal in mind. They are now facing breach of contract. That's very bad. At least so bad is that the decision radiates negatively on sustainable investments, on solar panels and heat pumps, which we do need very much. This is a Flemish file. So why should we interfere? I heard your Flemish colleague on the radio this morning whining about the cost of the CRM and that she didn't know what that would mean. I suggest that they work better together at the N-VA, because we will work on this all day today. Mr Wollants could have told us. So we will also say something about a Flemish dossier here, because the federal government has indeed played a role in the ruling. The rest of the government attacked that arrangement. As I understand the judgment, it is even one of the important reasons for the ruling in this matter. Madam Secretary, can you give me more information about the role played by the federal government and perhaps now? Do we have a role to play or not? I am particularly concerned about the negative impact on sustainable investment. In what way can you contribute to bring about a change of direction?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u4	Madam Minister, the destruction of the regulation of the reverse counter by the Constitutional Court was, of course, written in the stars. The Council of State had already made it clear in its opinion that the Flemish Government thereby exceeded the division of powers. Many people feel deceived and are rightly angry at the Flemish government. Those people who installed solar panels before the end of last year promised that they would be able to enjoy the beneficial arrangement of the reverse counter for another 15 years. In the meantime, the Flemish Government quickly put together a compensation scheme that is totally inadequate. The PVDA has therefore failed the Flemish Government and we call on the victims to do the same. Madam Minister, I know that this is a Flemish competence, but, as Mr Wollants also mentioned, the federal government is involved in this. It was not only the Flemish regulator VREG who objected to the Constitutional Court, but also the federal regulator CREG and the federal government did. I have four questions about this. Firstly, in what way is the federal government still involved in the discussion about the reverse counter and the mandatory roll-out of smart meters? Secondly, is the federal government still involved in developing the compensation scheme of the Flemish government for damaged owners of solar panels? If so, in what way? Thirdly, what is the federal government's position on the compensation scheme? Finally, is the federal government planning any further steps in the context of the destruction of the regime by the Constitutional Court?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u5	As I know, at the time, there was not a single vote against that majestic decree in the Flemish Parliament. Victory has many fathers, defeat only one mother.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u6	Mr President, what you are saying is correct. There was no vote against it. There were votes in favour and abstentions. The fact that the federal government brought an action before the Constitutional Court is now well known. I quote the Minister's statement at the time, in a reply of 15 January 2020 to my question: "On 5 December 2019, the Council of Ministers decided to bring an action for annulment before the Constitutional Court against the Decree', the condemned decree to quote the President. "To this end, the following motivation was given. It follows from the Decree that, even if it is a mechanism to compensate for the loss of sales revenue, compensation also results in the parties concerned not contributing or barely contributing to all kinds of federal charges, including transmission rates, the federal surcharge, the federal contribution and value added tax, while using the network infrastructure twice as a producer and consumer. In this way, federal powers are introduced, both in terms of energy and in terms of taxation." At the same time, together with the Federal Government's appeal, five other appeals were filed by VREG, private individuals, the FEBEG, the CREG and the League of Human Rights. It is too short, ladies and gentlemen, to blame the destruction solely on the federal government. At the time, the draft regulation was severely criticised by the Council of State and the VREG. In its judgment, the Constitutional Court held that the jurisdiction of the Regions concerning the introduction of the digital meter does not allow them to affect the taxes introduced by the Federal State and therefore, inter alia, destroyed Article 42 of the Flemish Region Decree. As regards the impact of the judgment on VAT revenue, I invite you to ask that question to my competent colleague in the Treasury. With regard to decisions reducing the taxable basis of transmission tariffs, we cannot anticipate future decisions. That would be speculation. In particular, this case shows that cooperation and dialogue with the Regions is the only way forward. This dossier has been unfortunate from the very beginning, despite the very good intentions. There have been promises made that could not be kept. That feels very unfair, but retaining the virtual reverse counter on digital meters also meant injustices. Customers in Flanders and Brussels who have a bidirectional meter are treated differently from those who have a reverse counter. The way that was carried out was not careful, but now throwing stones at each other, does not take us any further. We must now look together at how we can restore citizens' confidence. In essence, the Regions and the federal government want to encourage exactly the same thing, especially people to invest in the energy transition. It is particularly unfortunate that the trust that people had has now been violated. In the meantime, Flanders is developing a compensation scheme. I am, of course, prepared to enter into consultation with my Flemish colleague to support the transition to sustainable energy production in accordance with the coalition agreement. So I also see it from the federal level as my role to help restore confidence and I am open to further questions or suggestions from Mrs Demir. I am also pleased to note that last week we had discussions between our cabinets, the CREG, the VREG and Fluvius on the interpretation of the Constitutional Court judgment.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u7	Madam Secretary, in a number of areas you did not answer my questions. Firstly, you are not answering my question about VAT revenue. A few months ago you said that the government is one and indivisible, but that is no longer the case today. I will put that question to your colleague. Secondly, you have not answered the question of whether you will adopt the same attitude in future scenarios and on existing arrangements. Of course, there are rules in place today which, should they have been brought before the Constitutional Court at the time, would have led to the same conclusion, but you do not address the question of what you want to do with them. Will you leave the existing arrangements aside for what they are or will you take action against them in the same way as Mrs Marghem? I also understand why you do not want to go into this, because you will be involved in the debate and you do not want to do so. Furthermore, it is not clear to me whether you think that the federal government's practice with that petition has now been fully achieved or not. You're not going to go into that either. I wonder why you're ignoring those questions. Finally, I understand that a number of questions have also been asked from the Flemish level to your cabinet regarding the taxation of batteries and the like. I will question you again in the future, but I would have hoped you could have answered that today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u8	Mr Wollants, to deal with that last aspect, tomorrow there will be questions from me, addressed to Minister Van Peteghem, about the talks with the federal government on battery VAT, but also about the question of the compensation premium for self-employed and entrepreneurs and about taxation in that context. Madam Minister, I wonder if the discussions are indeed as intensive as Mrs Demir proposes. You confirm the impact on transmission network tariffs, the federal contribution and VAT. I look forward to the follow-up to this dossier. You did not want to answer the question of how you stand about existing schemes, which seem not to be challenged. I see you're not going to agree to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u9	Madam Minister, first of all, you say that at the time there was no vote against in the Flemish Parliament, which is true, but there were several critical voices. Among other things, my provincial and party colleague Rob Beenders has often warned about it. There is no point in looking back much now. You look ahead and say you're offering your help. I think that's a good position, because the problem is big. In particular, the damage to the image of the sector is particularly serious. As a Flemish minister, instead of taking time to criticize the CRM or to plant trees in the snow, I would concentrate on developing a proper compensation scheme for the affected owners of solar panels. Particular attention should be paid to the families that have really been affected, for example the families that have opted for a sustainable scheme at home, including heat pumps, because for those families the financial damage is really serious. In any case, some things will end up on our plate. When dynamic contracts are introduced, this will not reduce the complexity of the market. I suspect that we will talk about this in the future. That is why I propose that improvements should be made now. Finally, we know, of course, what is really needed in order to move forward in this area, in particular a tax shift. The current electricity bill is far too high and should definitely fall compared to the cost of fossil fuels. That way people are really encouraged to invest in that kind of technique and to use it at home.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u10	Madam Minister, first of all I would like to make it clear that the aforementioned decree was adopted in the previous legislature and the PVDA did not have a representative in the Flemish Parliament at all. So the PVDA could neither vote in favour nor against, nor abstain. From the outset, however, we opposed the mandatory introduction of smart meters. Madam Secretary, you have answered quite evasively. We take note of that. You say you want to restore confidence. I'm fine, but in order to restore confidence, I have some suggestions for you. Firstly, the obligation to install a digital meter should actually be deleted. Both you and the Flemish government must lift the obligation. Users should simply have the free choice between an analogue and a digital electricity meter, even if a digital meter has already been installed in some places. Secondly, when households inject electricity onto the grid via a digital meter, they must be given a fair price. A fair price is the price that households themselves pay when they take out electricity. That's the logic itself. Thirdly, you must ensure that the population does not pay for this debacle. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u11	Mr Warmaas, I apologize, because of a technical malfunction, the final part of your reply was not clear. I suppose it's okay for the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u12	Mr President, Minister, the Clean Energy Package (CEP) consists of a legal instrument of various directives and regulations. The CEP consists of legislation covering the following five themes: energy performance of buildings, renewable energy, energy saving, energy union governance and electricity market legislation. In the end, the package aims to achieve the European Union's energy and climate objectives set out in the Paris Agreement of 2015. By the end of 2018, a number of instruments have entered into force, such as the Energy Union Governance Regulation, the Energy Efficiency Directive 2012/2002 that was a revision, and the Renewable Energy Directive RED II. In addition, there are the Directive on the internal market in electricity, the Directive on the energy performance of buildings, the Regulation on the internal market in electricity, the ACER Regulation and the Directive on resilience to risks in the energy sector and on security of energy supply. Your policy paper 2021 on CEP only mentions: "In the flexible and decentralised energy system of the future, the need for flexibility is increasing and, among other things, storage and demand management should be able to participate more actively in the market. To make this possible, the government will primarily focus on the correct and timely implementation of the European Clean Energy Package." Madam Secretary, I have the following questions. Which parts of the Clean Energy Package still need to be transposed into federal legislation and into regulatory adjustments? What's the status? What's the timing?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u13	Mr President, Mr Ravyts, as you list, the Market Design package contains a number of regulations that are directly applicable and therefore should not be transposed in themselves: the Electricity Market Design Regulation, the ACER Regulation, the Electricity Security of Power Regulation and the 2030 governance regulation on national energy and climate plans. Then there are three directives: the directive on the internal market in electricity, the directive on renewable energy RED II and the directive on energy efficiency. The regulation on security of supply must not be transposed, but must, of course, continue to be implemented. For example, risk preparedness plans should be submitted by April. These are currently being prepared on the basis of the proposed scenarios in the Regulation. With regard to the directive on common rules for the internal market, Member States have requested a postponement from the European Commission. In the meantime, we are working on a draft law amending the electricity law, which will be submitted to the Chamber as soon as possible. The Energy Efficiency Directive will be implemented in cooperation with the Regions. This is addressed, among other things, in the context of the ENOVER consultation, because energy efficiency is obviously a competence of the Regions, where the majority of the points to be transposed also apply. With regard to the directive on renewable energy sources (RED II), I can tell you that we have begun to transpose it. Several slopes are eligible for this. I hope that this will also speed up the process.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u14	Mr President, Minister, thank you for the state of play. We learn that the risk preparedness plans are for April 2021 and that you have started the conversion of RED II. Energy efficiency is indeed the focus of ENOVER. We'll follow up on the file.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u15	Mr President, Minister, we are once again on the Renewable Energy Directive RED II and the regulatory framework for the use of biofuels in transport. In line with RED II, the proportion of biofuels used for transport in Belgium is increased gradually, in fact gradually. A real incorporation rate of 10,45 % or 13,9 % including double counting will be reached in 2030. In the period 2021 to 2030, a maximum of 7% of first generation biofuels shall be added. The provisions of the National Energy and Climate Plan (NEKP) around the Belgian route even go beyond the route set out in the RED II. In the context of the NEKP, it was agreed that an interfederal study would evaluate the technical feasibility of the incorporation rate every two years in order to possibly modify the incorporation rate. This study would take into account the availability of raw materials, environmental integrity and potential conflicts of use, the availability of advanced fuels and technological developments on the market, the availability of other renewable energy sources and the cost to consumers. On 8 December 2020, you stated here that the first interfederal study would be delivered by the end of last year in accordance with the timing of the National Energy and Climate Plan. In the event of a possible reduction in the incorporation rate, this will, of course, lead to negative effects in the regions, namely higher greenhouse gas emissions, as well as a lower share of renewable energy. In order to avoid these negative effects, the national plan clearly states that alternative federal measures will be implemented in the event of a reduction in the incorporation rate in order to achieve the same emission reduction. Has this interfederal study been completed? What are the main lines of this and what are the policy implications?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u16	Mr President, Minister, Mr Ravyts has already said a great deal about this study, and I am not going to repeat everything. You will not be surprised that I am particularly curious about the availability of raw materials, environmental integrity and user conflicts, especially because of the available agricultural land. We need them to produce healthy food for us, but they are very often also used for raw materials for biofuels. Was the study completed? What are the general conclusions? Can you explain a little more about the environmental integrity of fuels, in particular for first generation biofuels? What do you intend to do in your policy on the basis of these conclusions?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u17	Mr President, Minister, this is about first generation biofuels. I asked a question about this earlier, and you replied that you would await the biennial feasibility study. This would come in the second half of 2020. When will this study come, because we are now in 2021? Will this audience be available? What do you expect to learn from this feasibility study? After all, I have always understood that it focuses more on the economic feasibility of biofuels than on the environmental impact and the human rights aspect. There is already a great deal of information on these latter two aspects. I told you last time. The Federal Government's own Advisory Councils, the Central Council for Business, the Policy Coherence Advisory Board, the Federal Council for Sustainable Development, have already made clear in the past, on the basis of all available literature, that the current policy on biofuels is counter-productive and even harmful to the climate. They asked to ban first-generation biofuels from the National Energy and Climate Plan. Do you expect the feasibility study to suddenly say something else about that? If so, what elements do you have to suspect? If the study confirms once again that the environmental impact and the impact on human rights of food-based biofuels is very high, if it speaks and confirms that, will you finally phase them out? Or, as far as you are concerned, does this depend on the economic feasibility of biofuels?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the interfederal feasibility study on biofuels, requested under the National Energy and Climate Plan, was completed on 23 December 2020. The conclusion of the study is as follows: The objective for advanced biofuels is technically difficult to achieve. The 1.7 % excluding double counting of used vegetable oils and animal fats is still feasible, but biofuels from GFT waste, manure or algae would reach only 1% by 2030, while the objective is 1.75 % excluding double counting. Note that this objective of 1.75% is European. Mrs Creemers asked me about environmental integrity and the conflicts of use. Firstly, environmental integrity. The study confirms that palm oil and soya oil have a very large environmental impact. The main reason for this is the increasing deforestation to make additional agricultural land available for the production of these raw materials in order to maintain the increasing demand for biofuels. Secondly, the conflicts of use. The raw materials used for the production of first generation biofuels have also been used in other sectors such as the food industry, the chemical industry, the textile industry and the pharmaceutical sector. Other sectors, which are more difficult to electrify than private road transport, are interested in the final product to reduce the climate impact, such as the gas and electricity sectors and the aviation and shipping sectors. The incorporation obligation laid down in our National Energy and Climate Plan, which is stricter than the European directives, will increase the pump price by an average of 1.60 euro cents for petrol and 2.15 euro cents for diesel compared to today's price by 2030. I will take the following conclusions from the study into account in my policy. Firstly, the objective of 1.75%, excluding double counting for advanced biofuels based on GFT waste, manure or algae, will not be met according to the current projections. This is a European obligation, based on the renewable energy directives. In addition to examining the efforts that can be made to meet these targets, it is relevant to report here that this directive will soon be revised and that the targets may therefore change. Secondly, thanks to the contribution of renewable electricity to road transport and rail, the European target of 14% renewable energy for transport will be met by 2030. Thirdly, the incorporation rates laid down in the NEKP do not take into account the use of renewable electricity for road transport and rail. They therefore go beyond the European obligation to do so. In this context, in consultation with the relevant federal and regional ministers, I will examine the extent to which renewable energy can be used for the propulsion of electric cars and trains. Finally, of course, I will also publish this study. That will happen in the coming days, on the website of the FPS Economy. This study will, of course, be an important tool for further implementing our National Energy and Climate Plan and making the right decisions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u19	Madam Minister, thank you for the summary of this feasibility study. I remember that this study will be an element in the revision of the NEKP and that you will have talks about valorising the use of renewable energy for electric cars.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u20	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. In particular, I remember two conclusions, namely that renewable electricity needs to be used even more strongly, precisely because it is renewable. You also said that we absolutely must stop deforestation for the production of palm and soya oil. That is, of course, a global phenomenon, and we do not only have it in our hands. However, I am confident that you will also raise this issue at European level in order to maximise the use of renewable electricity in order to preserve the existing forests. The existing agricultural land can then be reforested or used for their actual purpose, namely to produce our food.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u21	Madam Minister, we are finally getting a more comprehensive answer from you, but in fact I do not think the answer is so clear. You did not say in writing whether you would phase out that first generation biofuel or not. Will you confine yourself only to valorising the renewable energy in it? In other words, isn't it an accounting operation? Or will you phase out this fuel once and for all from the National Energy and Climate Plan, as requested by the various Advisory Councils? You didn't answer that very clearly. For motorists there is only one increase in prices, while many people need a car to go to work, for example, in view of public transport which does not work properly in this country, especially with the closure of stations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u22	We received an amended version of your policy statement on 14 January through the Secretariat. It is a bit difficult to compare, but I think there are seven additions and or clarifications. There is, of course, a great deal of uncertainty about the exact status of that note. Some adjustments were submitted as a recommendation to our committee. We have voted on a number of issues, but they have all been voted away without distinction by the majority. The previous policy paper, apparently obsolete in the meantime, was approved by the majority parties, but of course without the adjustments that you yourself apparently made afterwards. What statute does your policy statement 2.0 have? Is that a policy statement under Rule 121a of our Rules of Procedure? Could you explain the various adjustments you have made, so that we know what the origins are and why those adjustments were included and some others that have been suggested? Maybe I didn't find all the modifications either. Will you put that policy statement back to the committee for approval? If not, why not? With the new document, you are actually moving away from the text approved by Parliament. It is not entirely clear to me whether your new policy statement is actually accessible to the public. Those who are looking for the Energy Policy Paper today will, of course, come up with the old policy statement, but you yourself have declared it obsolete. Will you ask the Chamber to put your new policy statement on the website as soon as it is approved? This way, the old one, which you find obsolete, can go to the trash can.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u23	We welcome and welcome your commitment to prepare a new version of your policy paper after the debate in Parliament. Of course, we were not clear how you intended to do that. Mr Wollants already referred to the fact that all the opposition parties' recommendations were voted off during the debate. It is perhaps also recommended next time to make the adjustments in consultation with Parliament, rather than to decide for yourself afterwards what and how to adjust them. It's a good thing you did. We are pleased with your decision to amend your policy paper on energy poverty. During the discussion, we shared the concerns of many organisations in the field of energy poverty and we are pleased that they have found hearing. After the sense of strengthening social energy policy, you added the following sentence to your Policy Paper 2.0: "Together with the Minister responsible for Combating Poverty, efforts will be made to ensure that the OMCWs have sufficient resources to meet their needs for combating energy poverty." So this partly reflects the concerns I have raised several times in my presentations on the Gas and Electricity Fund since the publication of the Platform against Energy Poverty study on the Fund and during the hearings we have had on this subject. The PVDA will, of course, ensure that that promise is kept. Madam Minister, how will you deliver on that promise in your policy paper? What additional actions do you plan? Do you have any idea today how much money the Gas and Electricity Fund is failing? How much euro are we talking about for 2020 and 2021? How will you provide these resources? I am a city council member in Namur and I was surprised to hear that the OCMW of Namur for its 2021 budget takes into account a reduction in the federal energy subsidy of EUR 133,000. How do you explain that? Do you intend to adjust the indexing mechanism of the Fund, as the Platform against Energy Poverty asks? Are you prepared to sit here with the Platform Against Energy Poverty, or have you done so in the meantime?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u24	Mr President, with regard to the status of the policy statement, I would like to refer to the answer given by the Prime Minister to Mr De Roover. It concerns additions to the policy statement as I submitted in November 2020. These additions originated in the debate we held in committee in connection with the discussion of the policy statement and the policy paper. The completed policy statement will be dealt with as an informal document by the Chamber, as the official and initial notes have already been approved by vote. They will therefore not be published as separate parliamentary documents, but as an annex to the report. As far as the adjustments are concerned, I have accepted the suggestions made by Members and the opposition's policy recommendations, which were complementary to the policy paper and which have also deepened the policy paper on a number of points. Of course, I did not accept the recommendations that were not in line with the government agreement. I'd like to give you an overview of the nine adjustments. The first amendment concerns the implementation of the resolution on the CRM, in particular on the formulation of concrete proposals to protect the purchasing power of families and the competitiveness of businesses. In this context, a proposal should be made on the degressivity for the transfer of the costs of the public service obligations for the CRM and offshore, without the degressivity increasing the invoices for families and SMEs compared to the reference year 2021. I think we will have another debate on this this afternoon. The second adjustment concerns decommissioning. We have therefore noted that the government will give concrete expression to the ambition to export nuclear technology know-how in general and decommissioning by supporting core institutions and companies in concrete projects to valorise this know-how. I think that we will be discussing this later in the context of the questions on the relaunch plan, because that has already been included and developed. The third adjustment concerns the creation of a task force with representatives of the energy, home affairs and economic policy areas with a view to guiding the decommissioning of nuclear power stations, i.e. the orderly closure of them, both technically and economically and humanly. The fourth adjustment concerns the long-term management of high-radioactive and/or long-lived waste and the civil panel referred to in the coalition agreement. Experts and citizens can meet there and engage in a debate on this issue. The fifth amendment concerns Synatom, with the addition that the risks must be covered and that no use of the funds that would undermine it can be allowed. More specifically, it concerns the provision of funds for the energy transition and its further development. Sixthly, the government will develop a vision on the repossession of offshore wind farms so that an informed decision can be taken by the end of the life of these parks. This is in line with the government's ambition to increase the capacity of the already existing wind farms so that the first zone can be used to the full and further thought can be given to what we will do with that first zone.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u25	Madam Secretary, you speak faster than the interpreters can translate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u26	That's what happens when I'm on the move. I apologize. The seventh amendment concerns the energy bill, for which we have completed the work on reform and simplification. With regard to energy contracts, the first priority is to phase out expensive and/or dormant contracts, carry out further research and, if necessary, issue additional legislation together with the regulator, the competent authorities and the energy suppliers concerned. We had a topical debate on this last week. The eighth point, social energy policy, will be answered in a moment. The ninth point is also often addressed in this committee. It concerns the modernisation of the Energy Charter Treaty in cooperation with the European Union. With regard to the adoption of these nine amendments, it is a supplement to the policy statement already adopted by the vote and is dealt with as an informal document by the Chamber. So there's not going to be a new vote. The status of the policy statement 2.0 does not make it possible to replace the policy statement adopted by the vote. The version 2.0 can be found in the reports of this committee. Mr Warmoes, I now come to your specific questions about the gas and electricity funds. On your first question, the re-evaluation of all energy funds is necessary to find the necessary means to combat energy poverty. However, reducing energy demand among people in energy poverty is also a priority. Often these people live in poorly isolated homes and have energy-consuming household appliances. Secondly, I am looking together with Mrs Lalieux, who is responsible for the fight against poverty, at the funds for gas and electricity. It is a shared competence. The PPS Social Integration manages these funds and has the latest figures. Both Cabinets and Ministers are working together on this. At the moment, my own administration does not have a precise view of the funds that the Gas and Electricity Fund lacks, but that does not have to stand in the way of our cooperation. Of course, I am very well aware of the study of the Platform Against Energy Poverty. It was just that study that prompted this Parliament, in this committee, on my own initiative, Mr Wollants and the Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and the Working Environment, to ensure that the question of indexing these funds was answered. The indexation of both funds will be covered by a dormant fund this year. This is still the same fund, the flat-rate heating fund. Mr Warmoes, I am basing my policy on facts and figures and I am consulting with the sector, including the poverty groups, which I am very grateful for the work they are doing on the ground and the inspiration they provide to the policy. They know the situation better than anyone. We are sometimes not sufficiently aware of this situation. Poverty is a full-time job. That is a situation in which we sometimes find it difficult to live up to. The terrein experience of several of these organisations helps us as policy makers to come up with a decisive policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u27	Madam Minister, if it is an informal document, I have to say that it is not really a policy statement, that it is a letter from you to the Chamber, and that your original policy statement remains as it was approved. I have to say that a citizen who is looking for a policy statement that can be made fairly easily through the Chamber's website. But it doesn't come out with the policy statement 2.0. And rightly so, because it has not been approved. In fact, you want to do something with it, but the system is not aimed at it and you certainly do not want to submit it again for approval. I understand that when Mr Calvo was still completely focused on this country, that was a nice aspect to be brought forward in the debate on the formation of government, but I think it is no more than that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u28	Madam Minister, thank you for your reply and the overview of all the adjustments. As Mr Wollants said, it is not an official document. That is, of course, regrettable. I am new to this House, but perhaps the way of working here needs to be revised. Instead of voting away everything from the opposition, it may be necessary to look at the content of the opposition's amendments at some point and to appreciate them. An amended policy paper can then be adopted and made official. In any case, we are always prepared to talk about this. Well, next time, then. As far as energy poverty is concerned, I understand that you have an effective will to do something about it. I think it is positive that you have good contact with the poverty organisations and that they inspired you. Keep doing that, as fast as you can. I also understand that you need your colleague, Mrs Lalieux, to do so. I hope it comes soon. Perhaps we should also ask her about this in committee. I share your view that it is important to also address energy demand, insulation and energy-consuming household appliances for people living in energy poverty. This is essential for regional competence or for a large part, but it is precisely that preventive part of the work of the OMCW that they are the first to drop if the resources are insufficient. The resources they have must be spent on the problem of invoices themselves. This again points to the importance of adequate resources for the funds. We'll follow it up. I hope you'll make it work soon. Finally, you mentioned the indexation of both funds, which is, of course, positive. This year, too, it is guaranteed, but the question was of course also about the indexation mechanism itself, which is not good, because it does not take into account the rise in poverty and rising energy prices. That is why the mechanism itself needs to be questioned. I understand you want to revise the funds. We'll keep following up on the file. We hope that you will make a quick and powerful effort, as you yourself say.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u29	Mr President, Madam Minister, in your political orientation statement 2.0, you state that as part of the preparations for the release of nuclear power, the government will create a task force that will include representatives from the political fields of Energy, Interior and Economy to accompany the shutdown of power plants. The Government will determine national policies for the long-term management of high-level radioactive waste and/or long-lived radioactive waste. Minister, what is the timetable for the implementation of this task force? What will his missions be? Have the objectives already been determined? If so, what are they? Will the federated entities be integrated into this task force? In the context of radioactive waste management, what will be Belgium's financial contribution to the MYRRHA project? Can you inform us of the progress of Phase 1 of the construction of a linear particle accelerator?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u30	Mr President, Mr Bombled, your question has two different aspects. As far as the task force is concerned, Belgium will be the fourth country in the world leading a nuclear exit project of this magnitude. We have seven power plants. For five of them, no discussion was conducted, and for the other two, the decision is almost taken. The process will be huge and the challenges will be significant: on the one hand, an industrial project and, on the other, human consequences. That is why I have considered bringing together the expertise within the government to accompany their closure. The task force will depend on the Minister of Economy and Labour, Mr Dermagne, the Minister of Home Affairs, Mrs Verlinden (for her competence in the field of security) and myself on energy-related aspects. At the same time, the government will have to assume its responsibilities to ensure that these plants are closed promptly, but the operator of these plants will remain the main responsibility and will have to fulfil his commitments to his staff. In addition, the federated entities also have important powers in this area. The task force will take the necessary initiatives to guide the exit of nuclear power in its areas of competence. In the coming weeks, a meeting will be held between the various firms. It is then that we will determine how to work, whether it is necessary to include the entities concerned and, if so, when. A first result of our collaboration is the projects that Minister Dermagne and I have submitted together as part of the recovery plan: research and development in the field of innovative medical applications of radioisotope and the scaling up of promising techniques for dismantling nuclear power plants developed in Belgium. This topic will be addressed in later issues. These projects will ensure the anchoring of nuclear know-how and expertise in Belgium, after which we should certainly have the ambition to make it an export product. With regard to your questions about MYRRHA, the first phase of the MYRRHA project will run until the year 2026 included. During this term, the government will prepare, on the basis of an independent audit of the Court of Auditors and a multidisciplinary group of international experts, a dossier with a view to deciding on the second and third phases. A substantial and international financial contribution will have to be made in the decision-making process. On the basis of a total budget of EUR 1.6 billion, the previous government decided on 7 September 2018 to finance the MYRRHA project to the tune of EUR 558 million for the period 2019-2038. The funding decided in 2018 is to be used for the implementation of the first phase (named Minerva), namely the construction on the site of the SCK CEN of the first part of the accelerator and the irradiation stations which will be put into service in 2026. This is an investment of €287 million. It is also to be used for the research and development of the expansion of the accelerator (phase 2) and the subcritical reactor, for an investment of 115 million, and for the operation of the Minerva accelerator during the period 2027-2038. This is an investment of 156 million. The important step announced by the SCK CEN was the first acceleration of the MYRRHA proton beam. For the first time, the quadruple radiofrequency produced a beam of protons to the conditions and criteria required to drive the particle accelerator. The health crisis has made international contacts difficult. A number of initiatives planned for SCK CEN in France and Germany have been postponed to a later date. For my part, I have commissioned my services and administration to work on the constitution of the ISBL MYRRHA, set out in the 2018 decision, which is primarily aimed at attracting foreign partners, a competence that I share with my colleague Secretary of State Thomas Dermine, and which we both wish to resolve as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u31	Minister, thank you for your answers. The government once again confirms its willingness to leave nuclear power and intends to respect the planned exit schedule. It is true that the dismantling of power plants is a major undertaking, and that it is appropriate to bring together the powers within the government. It also seems normal that the composition of the task force that you intend to set up is quite broad. As regards the management of radioactive waste and the MYRRHA project as such, we can only welcome the unprecedented research opportunities offered by this project both in the field of nuclear waste and in the field of nuclear medicine or fundamental and applied physics.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u32	Thank you. I remind everyone that speaking time is limited. In order to avoid too much backlog of questions to Mrs Khattabi, we will move on to her questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u33	Mr President, Madam Minister, some 43 million hectares of forest were lost on the 24 main "fronts" of deforestation around the world between 2004 and 2017, according to a report by the Global Biodiversity Fund published last week. Commercial agriculture is the main cause of deforestation. Mining, infrastructure, forestry and food farming are also important factors that have been identified. "Belgium must not remain a spectator of the debate on deforestation," says WWF. Last week, we were able to read articles about this. The Fund urges Belgium to support an ambitious European law in this area and to develop a strategy to make supply chains cleaner. You have indicated that Belgium has recently joined eight other European countries that are signatories to the Amsterdam Declaration, which calls on them to set up "zero deforestation" import chains. Minister, when did Belgium join the Amsterdam Declaration? What are the commitments? How are you going to deal with this in concrete terms in all sectors (soja, cocoa, beef and leather, palm oil, coffee, hevea, wood and paper)? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u34	Madam Member, with the signing of the new Declaration of Ambition, the Amsterdam Declarations Partnership, which was officially published on 11 January 2021, Belgium is now an official member of this declaration. Through this, the ADP countries are committed to working to promote sustainability in agriculture by eliminating deforestation in relation to basic agricultural products, to work towards this end in partnership with the major consumer and producer countries and with all actors in the supply chains. The ADP is part of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, the Paris Climate Agreement, the New York Declaration on Forests, the Strategic Plan on Forests 2017-2030 and the future Global Biodiversity Framework beyond 2020. This voluntary partnership is a grouping of countries that share a political vision for action on imported deforestation. There are no legal obligations or prohibitions arising therefrom. There is a moral commitment to implement the content of the new declaration by participating in the working groups, diplomatic actions and strategic reflections of the partnership. These countries are at the forefront of understanding the sectors and impacts resulting from imported deforestation and have contributed greatly to the Commission's communication on this issue, as well as to contacts via their embassies with critical countries such as Indonesia, Malaysia or Brazil. Belgium is an open economy, large or exporting several products affected by imported deforestation, as you mentioned. In view of our role in the European market and the efforts to undertake the necessary transitions, joining this partnership will serve as a considerable lever in the necessary steps of dialogue with producer countries, other consumer countries and the sectors concerned. This accession should also facilitate the implementation of the Beyond Food strategy. At the end of December, I received precisely this draft federal strategy, drawn up by the Working Group on Social Responsibility of the Interdepartmental Commission for Sustainable Development. It is already proposed in the draft Federal Sustainable Development Plan, which came back to me this week. From now on, I intend to establish contacts with the firms concerned. This strategy would cover a period up to 2030, but the administrations involved in the issue, admittedly, are already working on the various components of this programme. Membership in the partnership is one of their recommendations. By January 2022, we should have a formal structure for monitoring and coordinating "Beyond Food" actions. For each of the priority raw materials, task forces should be set up to prepare "Beyond Chocolate"-type partnerships. Specific federal measures and actions will be identified for each of the strategic areas, in particular public procurement, taxation or access to justice. In addition, I will ensure that I support the development of a European regulatory framework that is as ambitious as possible. The Commission will submit proposals during this six-month period, combining regulatory and non-regulatory proposals to combat the placing on the market of products related to imported deforestation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u35	Madam Minister, I thank you for your answer and will follow with great interest the work of these task forces in the future, hoping that it will be as close as possible in time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u36	Minister, on December 4, 2015, a few days before COP21 in Paris, a political agreement on intra-Belgian burden sharing was reached within the National Climate Commission (CNC), chaired by then Brussels climate minister Céline Fremault. The agreement included several components: the commitment to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from non-ETS sectors; the commitment to renewable energy targets; revenues from auctioning CO2 allowances from ETS; and the commitment to international financing. As a result of this agreement, an inter-federal energy pact to define a trajectory for 2030/2040 was drafted for approval by all governments in the country in 2018. Since then, I have had the impression that there is little more: lack of intra-Belgian coordination, actions and initiatives at a standstill, still no climate law and criticism of the PNEC project by the European Union. However, the previous burden sharing ran until the end of 2020. Belgium must be able to adhere clearly and sustainably to a logic of climate ambition. Without coordinated and concerted climate governance between the different levels of power, Belgium will not be able to fully participate in the zero-carbon transition. In early December 2020, you announced an intra-Belgian agreement on a 55% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2030, a few days before the EU Heads of State and Government agreed on the same target. Minister, in addition to these announcements, could you give us a detailed picture of the specific action plan that you are going to put in place to achieve this objective? It is known that the Regions are the only ones responsible for greenhouse gas emission inventories and that Flanders has set a target of -32.5% for 2030, which is far from -55%. What is the status of intra-Belgian consultation within the CNC, which was chaired by you until the end of 2020? Given the importance of quickly reaching agreement on a new burden sharing, what are the next meetings and deadlines of the CNC on this subject?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u37	Mr President, I share your view on the urgent need for Belgium to be unequivocally committed to a logic of climate ambition. I would like to correct one aspect of your question: in December I did not announce an intra-Belgian agreement on the -55% but on an intra-Belgian agreement to support the European ambition of -55%. We are now awaiting the Commission's return for the Belgian effort, but the government, for itself, within the framework of the majority agreement, has set itself this objective. I wanted to correct this because it always arouses a lot of emotion among my Flemish friends. As I said, the European Union agreed on the goal of achieving carbon neutrality by 2050 and reducing its emissions by at least 55% by 2030 compared to 1990. Belgium fully supported this objective at the European Council on 10 and 11 December. The achievement of these objectives represents a considerable challenge for Belgium, which will involve strong and coordinated action but also, as you mentioned, an adequate governance structure. There is no doubt that the National Energy-Climate Plan 2021-2030, in its current form, does not meet this challenge. The evaluation carried out by the European Commission revealed a number of shortcomings, including the lack of integration between its various components (regional and federal components), the lack of ambition of certain objectives and a often fragmented description of the actions of the Plan in terms of concrete implementation (calendar, means of implementation, etc.).). Given the shortcomings of the current version of the PNEC and the increase in climate ambition at the European level in Belgium, this Plan must therefore be revised. I hope that this review will be organised in a concerted manner at national level in the ad hoc fora, namely the National Climate Commission, but also CONCERE, the energy consultation group. We need to think about it in order to speed up the implementation of measures of national scope and to develop new actions at all levels of power in a spirit of complementarity and mutual strengthening of policies. The federal government must fully contribute to this joint effort. As foreseen in the Government Agreement, a climate action plan will be put in place. We're working on it. It aims to structure actions in the various areas of federal jurisdiction and provide them with an appropriate monitoring mechanism. My intention is to propose a step-by-step approach to the Council of Ministers in the very near future with a view to implementing this plan within a time frame compatible with the revision of the PNEC, a draft revision of which will have to be submitted to the European Commission in June 2023. This approach will involve mobilising the federal departments involved in the implementation of climate policy in order to propose the strengthening of existing policies or the development of new initiatives, including those announced in the government agreement. The new actions will need to be accompanied by clear objectives, progress indicators and monitoring and adjustment methodologies. The proposed approach will also include a governance component aimed at structurally strengthening this interdepartmental collaboration and establishing a robust and effective monitoring mechanism. Finally, it is important for me to monitor progress in full transparency vis-à-vis Parliament and the citizens. In addition to the federal action plan and in order to maximize its potential, we also need to reinvigorate the reflections on climate governance at national level. Experience has shown us that there are gaps in this area. We must learn from this and actively seek more efficient solutions to better organize and coordinate our country's climate policy. Multiple proposals have been made to improve governance. They were the subject of a synthesis report presented to the members of the National Climate Commission. I can only regret that some members of this Commission have objected to follow up on this report and to explore the most promising avenues for action. For my part, I will continue to plead for this reflection to be revived in the National Climate Commission. In any case, one of the elements of this climate governance in Belgium, i.e. burden sharing, will have to be renegotiated this year, as the current agreement has come to an end. The National Climate Commission agreed on the goal of reaching a political agreement on the next burden sharing, before COP26 to be held in Glasgow in November this year. It is indeed important that we set the milestones of this agreement without delay to ensure that the 2030 targets as currently defined can be achieved and to avoid any legal vacuum, in particular as regards the distribution of revenues from the auctioning of ETS emissions allowances. The negotiation of this new agreement also provides an opportunity to increase Belgium's contribution to international climate finance. However, a final agreement integrating the strengthening of ambitions for 2030 can only be concluded after work at European level to adapt Energy and Climate legislation to this enhanced ambition, which will obviously have an impact on Belgium's specific objectives and their implementation. I will give my full support to the Presidency of the National Climate Commission held this year by the Walloon Region in order to reach a balanced agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u38	Madam Minister, I would like you to ensure that your time is respected in the future. Before giving you the floor, Mr Dallemagne, I would therefore ask you to respect your time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u39	Mr President, I shall make sure that I do not exceed my speaking time. However, let me not complain about the Minister's very exhaustive answer, which I thank for the answer which I intend to analyse because it includes a great deal of information. Having said that, I would like to highlight the Minister's honesty in her very strict observation of the considerable challenge, the lack of vision, the lack of integration and the shortcomings of the National Energy-Climate Plan. In this regard, there is an urgent need since the agreement on burden sharing expired at the end of 2020. I therefore ask him to do everything possible to speed things up. Madam Minister, as regards the correction you made at the beginning of your speech on the Belgian agreement to support the 55% reduction, you will admit that there was something to create confusion. In the end, a Belgian agreement or a Belgian federal agreement is not the same. In reality, there was no Belgian agreement to support such an approach. In doing so, we are faced with an ambition that is far from being powerful, far from being integrated between the federated entities and the federal state, which I regret. I will continue to follow this issue very closely. There's an emergency.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u40	Mr President, Madam Minister, on Tuesday 21 January Zembla published on her website conclusions from the research conducted by chemist Ewa Skoczynska on all kinds of substances in synthetic turf rubber grains. The PhD study fits in with a PhD research for the Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam. There appear to be even more harmful and carcinogenic substances in the rubber grains of artificial turf fields than has been assumed so far. What is also special about the properties of a number of newly found substances is that unlike the known carcinogenic substances, they are much easier to leak out of the rubber grains. That is certainly an issue for the environment. At the committee meeting on 12 January, I asked if you would be willing to launch a study, in collaboration with a university, into the impact on the environment of artificial grass fields in our country. At that time, however, you did not think it appropriate to do any duplication of work at the top of the work that is being carried out at European level. Madam Secretary, I have the following questions. The leading voice in this research at European level is RIVM. This is mainly based on the influence of the 16 packs. However, the same RIVM insists that playing on artificial grass is safe. Do you also think that trust in their research is, to say the least, rather one-sided and questionable? Apparently, the Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam does not assume that a one-sided European research conducted by RIVM is sacred. In their view, the standards used by RIVM should be lifted. What's your opinion on that? After this new research, do you think it would be more appropriate to adopt a more proactive attitude yourself and start researching the impact of artificial turf fields on the environment?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u41	Mr President, Mr Moyaers, I will answer your questions regarding the impact of rubber granulate, which is used in sports fields and playgrounds, among other things, with regard to environmental perspectives. This question has not yet been discussed at European level. Although there is a mandate from the European Chemicals Agency's Committee on this dossier, which dates from 29 August 2017, my services have not yet received a clear indication of the planning by ECHA of a technical REACH restriction dossier for substances other than packs and microplastics present in rubber granulate. The RIVM Brief Report Exploring environmental effects of rubber granulate at artificial turf fields is a study based on more than one hundred steel rubber granulates taken on the Dutch market, but also on markets of other European Member States. The purpose of this study was to examine the substance content with regard to environmental harmfulness, as presented in Annexes 7 and 8 of the report. For a good understanding, we would like to stress that the study mentioned above is a different study from a previous RIVM study on rubber granulate, which focused on health aspects related to the pack content. The previous RIVM study on the health impact of packaging and rubber granulate was assessed by the Scientific Committee RAC of the ECHA or European Chemicals Agency. The same assessment procedure by the RAC is expected for the RIVM study, which focuses on environmental assessment. On that occasion, a study such as that of the University of Amsterdam may be published during the public consultation if it was not identified by the ECHA during the initial assessment. Scientific actors and all stakeholders in the REACH dossiers under development or in the public consultation phase will have the opportunity to present their information twice a year at the open meetings of the BCR or the Belgian REACH Committee, established by a national cooperation agreement. Alternatively, they can send their information to my administration in written form. The article of Zembla referred to does not contain sufficient information on the substances present. My administration will contact the scientific staff of the Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam to receive a copy of their study. We understand that it was not published. In order to assess that information scientifically, data are required on the concentration values and the distribution of the substances in the rubber granulate. The analysis of the consequences of the use of rubber granulate as a scattering material in sports fields, playgrounds and other applications is the responsibility of my colleagues in the Regions. I therefore refer you to my colleagues, the regional ministers, to argue in favour of a study proposal. My services will provide information on the PhD research of the Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam to the other Belgian authorities responsible for REACH regulation. I would like to remind you that Belgium is in favour of including both environmental and health considerations for all substances of concern in a single REACH restriction dossier, which we have already officially indicated.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u42	Madam Minister, thank you for your reply, which was partly enlightening. It is, of course, true that studies often base themselves on the health aspect. Today, the environmental impact is based mainly on literature studies. That is why I call for a study to be carried out. The doctoral research of the chemist, in this case of the Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, comes at a special time. After all, the European Commission is really considering the future of the artificial turf fields with rubber pellets in Europe. The European Commission is doing this mainly on the basis of the motivation to combat pollution of the environment by microplastics as much as possible. In Flanders, I have already tabled a resolution on this issue in spring 2019, without success. It is therefore not very encouraging to refer the matter back to the regional authorities. In the Netherlands, on Thursday 28 January, very recently, the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and Water State, together with the Minister for Medical Care and Sport, announced that they want to effectively dispose of these artificial turf fields with rubber granulate in 2030. This is mainly for environmental reasons, and that is a good first step in the right direction which we can certainly follow. Not only the environmental aspect, but also the health aspect is important. We really need to follow the precautionary principle here. One might as well be sure of that. Let us study this matter very carefully, and I am counting on you to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u43	Mr. Senesael, I think it's Stromae I'm watching behind you. It's wonderful to see you like this!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u44	Mr President, Madam Minister, the survey on sustainable development, The time has come, recently published by the international network of professional firms providing audit, tax and advisory services KPMG has studied the results of the 100 largest companies operating in 52 countries, including Belgium. It shows that in 2017, about 62% of the largest Belgian companies published information on sustainable development, and that by 2020 this figure reached 72%. It should be noted here that this figure remains below the average of the 5,200 enterprises surveyed worldwide (80%) and well below the figures of French (94%), German (92%) and Dutch (88%). In addition, the survey points out that only about 25% of respondents with a high or medium risk of biodiversity loss currently disclose this risk in their corporate reports and that at European level only 22% of companies report the biodiversity risks associated with their activities. Madam Minister, can we have your feedback on the figures mentioned and, more generally, on the issue of the publication of information on sustainable development and biodiversity by Belgian companies? The transparency of companies in relation to the environmental and biodiversity impacts of their activities seems to be an element of business concern for them and, possibly, the establishment of effective policy initiatives, has a contact with your competent colleagues taken place or is it envisaged on this subject? Can related measures be expected?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u45	Mr President, Mr Senesael, the figures you are referring to show a positive development, although we all know that this trend must accelerate in order to cope with the urgency of the climate crisis and biodiversity. Disclosure by companies of information on their environmental impact is indeed an important lever for change. Disclosure of the climate impact has now become a reality. The issue of biodiversity needs to be further developed. There is a company support tool called BeBiodiversity.be from which companies can test themselves. In the same way that they can measure their climate impact, they can also do so from a biodiversity perspective. This is still too unknown. These important issues will be discussed within the European Union in the context of the next initiative on sustainable corporate governance expected in the first half of 2021, and the revision of the Directive on the publication of non-financial information. I will work with my colleagues in the federal and regional governments to ensure that biodiversity conservation issues are properly integrated into these initiatives. Creating an ambitious European regulatory framework with favourable conditions of competition is one of the pillars of the Federal Strategy "Beyond Food" which I mentioned in my policy note and which is proposed in the preliminary draft Federal Sustainable Development Plan – mentioned in my reply to Mrs Marghem. As part of this strategy, other avenues will be explored to create a national framework to support these developments. In addition, we look forward to the final version of the basic national assessment under the first National Business and Human Rights Action Plan, which should provide a clear and more comprehensive picture of the implementation of the United Nations business and human rights guidelines. Moreover, joining the partnership of the Amsterdam Declaration is also an important commitment in the fight against imported deforestation. This is another example that illustrates that this government has clear ambitions in the area of sustainable development and biodiversity.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u46	Minister, thank you for your accurate and comprehensive response. I would just like to highlight the biodiversity initiatives that need to be emphasized. You mentioned a tool that can be used. However, at the enterprise level in particular, the importance of this biodiversity is often or sometimes too unknown. Although the climate aspect is more highlighted, I believe that both, biodiversity and climate, are quite easily interpenetrated and need to generate collective awareness.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u47	Madam Minister, we have seen for a few days that there are indeed winters left in our parts. Nevertheless, climate changes are taking place worldwide and adaptation at international level is the subject of joint discussions. On 25 and 26 January 2021, the Climate Adaptation Summit was held online and under the chairmanship of the Netherlands. Participants agreed on the need for faster adaptation to climate change. They have agreed an action agenda in which targets are kept. Among other things, the German and French Heads of Government made commitments to spend hundreds of millions more on adaptation in the coming years. They want to increase the resilience to rising sea levels, drought and extreme weather. It is unclear to me whether members of the federal government participated in the summit. With regard to the international climate finance aspect, an amount of EUR 12 million was entered in the federal budget 2021. This amount was therefore adjusted upwards compared to previous years. The principle of additionality would be guaranteed in accordance with the government agreement. Madam Secretary, how was the Belgian Government represented at the Climate Adaptation Summit? Were any commitments made by Belgium regarding international financing for adaptation, such as new commitments to support developing countries in their climate policy? If so, which one?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u48	Mr Ravyts, the Climate Adaptation Summit shed light on the increasing need for adaptation. For example, it is not only the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions that is needed to combat the existential crisis that is causing climate change. It must go hand in hand with a strong adaptation policy to strengthen resilience to the inevitable effects of climate change. Climate change is a global phenomenon and therefore calls for a global approach, with the support of developing countries that are least responsible but most affected. At the summit, the Netherlands brought together all stakeholders, governments, cities, the private sector and civil society, including youth organisations, to promote and highlight concrete multisectoral actions. Belgium was not represented as such at the summit, but our Prime Minister attended a side event where he talked about the importance of developing and transferring technology for adaptation. The emphasis was on the important role played in agriculture not only by small farmers but also by women and young people. The exchange of best practices between different countries can ensure a more efficient approach to the global crisis. In Belgium, adaptation has been high on the Belgian Development Cooperation and Climate Finance agenda for several years, making more than half of our climate finance available for adaptation. Among other things, Belgium is an important donor of the Least Developed Countries Fund, which mainly supports adaptation in the least developed countries, and of the Adaptation Fund. Belgium has not made any specific additional commitments at the Climate Adaptation Summit, but in the coalition agreement the federal government has committed itself to increasing its contribution to international climate finance. Together with Minister Kitir, I am working on thinking tracks to concreteise that commitment.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u49	Madam Minister, I note a very modest contribution from Belgium's representation at that adaptation summit. However, we have a lot of technology for adaptation applications in an international framework. I am curious to see how you are developing with your colleague, Mr Kitir, and I am sure that we will be able to discuss this in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u50	Mr President, Madam Minister, in recent years the press and many organisations have stressed the existence of a large illegal trafficking in timber in Belgian territory and, more particularly, in the port of Antwerp. It had been pointed out, inter alia, that between 15 and 30 per cent of the world's timber was illegally harvested, that Belgium was the 6th European importer of timber from major tropical forest basins, boreal forests and China, and that 9 per cent of the timber imported into the port of Antwerp came from states that were classified as fragile or subject to conflict. In 2017, Belgium was notified by the European Union due to insufficient application of its timber regulation, which aims to exclude illegal timber and timber products from the Community market. That same year, an inspection unit of the Environment DG of the Public Health FPS was set up. Today, Interpol points out that illegal timber trade generates billions of dollars each year, directly contributes to climate change, and is responsible for about 17% of global carbon emissions, more than global emissions of combined air, road, rail, sea and river traffic. Minister, can we have your feedback on the issue? The prevalence in our country of the phenomenon of the import of illegally exploited timber seemed, a little while ago, to be of real concern. Can we get information on the current situation? In October 2019, we learned that 22 controls had been carried out over the year 2018 and that a four-person "Bois" team from DG Environment, including two inspectors, was in charge of the implementation of the EU Timber Regulation. Can we know what is happening today?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u51	Mr President, honourable Member, the state of the world's forests remains, alas, a matter of great concern. The European Union's Timber Regulation (EURB), which came into force in 2013, has improved the legality of timber imported into the European Union, but at this stage we can only talk about mixed results. We find that the more wood products include different species in their composition, the more difficult it is to ensure traceability and, therefore, its legality. These are the returns of market surveillance. Our inspection shows that importers of unprocessed or unprocessed wood have generally improved their way of working, even if we are still encountering companies that are misusing or not at all implementing legislation. On the other hand, for wood products, including furniture, we find a more partial knowledge of the legislation. The volumes of processed wood are smaller, but concern a multitude of products and actors. In view of this, my administration has developed targeted awareness-raising actions under a LIFE project so that this sub-sector is better aware of its obligations and how to respond to them. It also organised an information campaign on the EUSR targeting the entire timber sector falling under this legislation. A full explanatory letter has thus been sent to each undertaking which has imported wood or wood products covered by this Regulation in recent years. Implementation of the EUSR has led to an improvement in the quality of imports, but further efforts are still needed, particularly for heavily processed wood products. Like anyone who works on illegal trafficking, I cannot tell you precisely the extent of the underground phenomenon by nature. At the global level, 50 per cent of the wood felled could be illegally felled. For Belgium, we have figures for 2012 that would oscillate between 15 and 30% of imported wood. More than half of the tropical timber arriving in Antwerp is not destined for the Belgian market. Our inspectors therefore have no prerogative in this respect, since they have no prerogative except for timber introduced into the Belgian market. It is up to each national inspection to check the timber that is introduced into the European Union from its territory, if the customs clearance procedures give rise to it. It is obvious that some operators are using this situation to introduce wood into the European Union for the sake of dubious legality. However, on the basis of information provided by customs, my administration was able to transmit information on suspicious shipments to neighbouring countries. Regular checks of importing companies are obviously carried out in Belgium. It is interesting to note that at this stage there have been no cases of imports of illegal timber. However, many warning or infringement reports have been drafted for cases of incomplete or non-existent due diligence systems, since these systems required by the EUSR are intended to limit the risk that illegal timber will or will not be found in the supply chain of European importing companies. Member States of the Union meet regularly in market surveillance coordination groups. A coordinated approach to market surveillance at European level is developed for some countries, or collaboration with other entities such as Interpol. In addition, the Commission has informed us that the European Anti-Fraud Office has initiated an investigation to identify cross-border trafficking. In short, in order to combat illegal timber, in addition to ordinary controls based on a risk analysis, Belgium is also contributing to European coordination. I would like to point out to you that, as mentioned in one of my previous replies, Belgium has just joined the Amsterdam Declarations Partnership, which aims precisely to promote sustainability in agriculture by eliminating deforestation in relation to basic agricultural products. Belgium also looks forward – and looks forward to – to the European Commission's proposal on products free from deforestation. Finally, two full-time inspector equivalents are dedicated to wood control within the Federal Species Inspection Unit. In addition, staff working on the issue of wood at the product policy department level are also involved. Twenty-nine inspections were carried out by the inspection in 2019 and thirty in 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u52	Minister, thank you for your relevant answers. I associate myself with your reflection on this matter, which is a matter of great concern. If traceability is complicated, I insist that awareness-raising and information campaigns be continued or even increased. It is necessary and relevant. It is also necessary to ensure that you can intervene with the European Commission so that there is harmonisation in the fight against these criminal behaviour.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u53	Mr President, Mrs Samyn, the International Energy Agency shows that the share of renewable energy will increase and that strong additional action is needed on a global scale over the next decade. The European Commission's studies give us a better picture of the EU. They also show that, even at baseline, renewable energy breaks through and in climate-neutral scenarios accounts for the vast majority of our total energy consumption. As the energy mix in the EU is the prerogative of the Member States, modelling integrates the Member States' nuclear energy plans and then projects an energy mix as optimal and cost-effective as possible. The great focus on renewable energy in the European Green Deal therefore has nothing to do with fixation or taboos, but everything to do with economic reality. The cost of renewable energy is falling sharply, and this is a sign of sound economic sense. Nuclear energy, on the other hand, is a mature energy source, but it continues to pose uninsurable risks, saddles us with nuclear waste for centuries, and the cost of new projects is also falling due to stringent safety requirements. In the development of CCS, investments have been and are being made to make industry climate neutral. Mr Heymann rightly points out that we will have to adapt our behaviour and that policies are needed for this. However, that has nothing to do with a dictatorship. In our open, democratic society too, freedom is not absolute: we must not harm others. I don't need to explain to you the damage principle of John Stuart Mill. For example, a carbon price integrates external costs into prices and ensures that we take society into account when making our choices. Because he does not impose on us how to reduce emissions, but leaves room for citizens and businesses to make optimal choices, carbon prices are the basis for cost-effective climate policies. In addition, potential carbon price revenues can be used to support the financing of the transition for households, as well as businesses. The transition will cost and require efforts, but we must not forget that the costs of inactivity are many times greater. Climate action is not an economic doom story, but offers many opportunities. The transition brings with it a large investment agenda. Numerous studies show the positive impact of climate investment in stimulating economic activity and job creation. In the current crisis, we need to frontload public investment in order to deploy the economic revival. I will ensure that the recovery plan fully subscribes to the green transition. Industry will play an important role in the transition to climate neutrality. The European industrial strategy fully subscribes to the Green Deal and rightly stresses the importance of a green, circular and digitaler industry. It is, of course, important to protect the competitiveness of our industry during this transition. Studies show that current European rules, including in the framework of the EU ETS, provide such protection. In addition, there is indeed thought about a carbon border adjustment mechanism. Contrary to a threat to world trade, this instrument will be more an inspiration and incentive for our trading partners to fully engage in climate ambition. We are already seeing positive signals from, among other things, China and the United States.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u54	Madam Minister, you have used speaking time for the question, the answer and the reply!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u55	It was an important question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u56	I know, but the Rules of Procedure do not allow me to divide the questions into important and insignificant ones.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u57	Mr President, is it possible to give me the comprehensive answer?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u58	We cannot arrange and plan the committee's work differently, because then we will be stuck everywhere in the long run. I also thought it was a very interesting answer. It was supported, among other things, by John Stuart Mill. I thought that was a good quote. But I have to be objective. We must conclude the matter. If you insist, you can ask the Minister for further answer. Do you still want to replicate?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u59	Mr President, I fully understand the arrangements. I understand that the Energy Committee is working fairly well, unlike other committees, where things are not going so smoothly. Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. Achieving the objective of climate neutrality remains a particularly important challenge, which the government imposes on itself but also on the real economy. In any case, it places additional burdens on business. This morning we had to learn that BASF is storing its plans for a large gas plant in Antwerp. This gas-fired power plant would include the capacity of Objective 1 and Objective 2, but because of the too uncertain economic context in terms of the government's compensation, BASF has decided not to give priority to the project for the time being. This is a pity and a missed opportunity for the deployment of renewable energy and the prevention of additional CO2 emissions by 2030. I understand from your reply that there is a need for a strong additional action and that it will be used to that end. There is not only the critical approach to the report on the possible rapid rise in carbon prices in the EU. Several countries already indicate that they will levy import taxes for the purposes of the carbon border adjustment system. However, this cannot in any way harm our economy and free trade. I therefore hope that the government will take due account of the potential impact. I am convinced that consultation and cooperation with the various sectors, to which you are already doing, are very important. Especially in the chemicals sector, people are very willing to come up with economically sustainable and viable solutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u60	Minister, on December 8, 2020, the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) released its annual report on the gap between emission reduction needs and prospects. He pointed out that, despite the decrease in CO2 emissions due to the covid-19 pandemic, the current global trend in emissions suggests a 3°C increase in temperatures over the course of this century. The report also stresses that a "economic recovery following the crisis of the covid-19 (...), used as an opening for further decarbonisation" is a sine qua non for reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 2030, which would comply with the objective of limiting global warming to less than 2°C, as mentioned in the Paris Agreement. Minister, my questions are as follows. We have no doubt that you have read this report. Can we therefore benefit from your return to him? The UNEP report compares global total emissions in 2030 under different scenarios, in particular between the one determined by current policies and the one characterized by a reduction in 2030. This second scenario is marked by a series of measures in favour of post-covid economic recovery, international navigation, aviation and low-carbon equitable lifestyles. Can we hear your views in this regard and, in particular, in relation to the relief measures mentioned? Finally, although the UNEP report does not specifically address policy in Belgium, can we know whether some of the proposed initiatives could be implemented in our country or whether others could be defended by our country at European level?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u61	Mr. Senesael, the report of the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) is an essential contribution that enables us to assess annually the progress made and, above all, the efforts that remain to be made at the global level. The first lesson I learn from this is that we have still not managed to take the necessary turn to achieve our goal of limiting the rise in long-term temperatures, as set out in the Paris Agreement. Indeed, even if greenhouse gas emissions fell temporarily in 2020, due to the health crisis, the underlying infrastructure and lifestyles remain heavily carbonised. Without structural change in this area, we will not be able to change the trend sufficiently. However, the report highlights the growing ambition of a growing part of the world's countries. To date, countries on the path to climate neutrality account for about 60 per cent of global emissions. This means that decarbonisation policies will need to be put in place very quickly in all sectors and at all levels. The UNEP report rightly draws our attention to a series of measures, including those you cite. International aviation and navigation currently account for about 5% of global greenhouse gas emissions. This is a limited but growing part, and above all it escapes most of the measures taken or to be taken at national level. Current developments in these sectors are not satisfactory. Real cooperation in this area is therefore essential if these sectors are to be decarbonised in the long term. Another aspect of the measures rightly highlighted in the report concerns our way of life. Changes in lifestyle, cultural and societal, are indeed essential in order to accompany technological developments. While the main decarbonisation technologies to be developed are known, new forms of social innovation still need to be developed in order to make sustainable lifestyles possible. They will also have to fully integrate the justice dimension, without which the transition will not be possible. As far as recovery measures are concerned, we have understood well, both at European and Belgian level, the historic opportunity for the climate transition to revive our economies and to support employment through public investment and support measures. We currently have a financial manna, notably through the various European sources, a very large part of which will be devoted to the green transition, particularly in the framework of the recovery plan which my colleague, Mr Dermine, is coordinating. This is a real positive impetus that we will have to step up in the years to come with the adoption of a federal climate plan containing a range of measures to meet our strengthened climate targets by 2030.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u62	Minister, thank you for your answers that fully meet our expectations. As you pointed out, the turn that needs to be taken must help to change the trend. That must be our first concern. Secondly, there are decarbonisation policies which tend to be implemented because, as is well known, the results are insufficient. Lifestyle changes must accompany technological and social innovations, with behaviours that need to be reoriented. Finally, I believe that the stimulus measures are a huge opportunity to seize. They will allow for an amplifying positive impulse of our behaviors. We need to be well aware of this in order to be responsive and proactive.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u63	Mr President, Minister, Protecting the Marine Environment from Land-based Activities, a political note published on January 20 by the International Institute for Sustainable Development points out that marine pollution from land-based activities is increasing. The Global Programme of Action for the Protection of the Marine Environment from Land-based Activities (GPA), adopted by 108 Governments and the European Commission in 1995, has made progress on various forms of pollution, which is welcome. However, some shortcomings have been noted since then. These include marine litter and nutrient management. Minister, can we have information on Belgium's commitments at national and European level under the GPA? Can we assess the impact of our country's land-based activities on marine pollution? Are future initiatives envisaged to combat this phenomenon, particularly at European level?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u64	Mr President, Mr Senesael, the federal minister in charge of the matter is the minister responsible for the North Sea, my colleague Vincent Van Quickenborne. I therefore refer you to him with regard to Belgium's commitments and the general assessment of the situation in our country. However, a large number of stakeholders are contributing to the objectives of this policy, as the report identifies nine categories of marine and coastal pollution sources: wastewater, persistent organic pollutants, radioactive substances, heavy metals, etc. These include the Regions with regard to water sanitation, agriculture and habitat destruction. As part of my expertise in product standards, I aim to reduce the impact of these polluting sources on the environment, whether at the level of chemicals, through legislation on POPs, for example, but also REACH, where I defend an ambitious positioning of Belgium in the context of the issue of the restriction of microplastics in products. At European level, the most important initiative for consumer products is the publication of the Single-Use Plastics Directive, which aims to protect the seas by prohibiting or restricting a range of single-use plastic products, such as plates, cutlery, cotton-tips, food containers (only single doses) and expanded polystyrene cups. This Directive entered into force on 3 July 2020. Therefore, it has not yet shown all its effects.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u65	Minister, thank you for your partial response. I will ask the minister in charge of the North Sea about the various elements included in the question. I would also like to stress the interest of the Socialist Group in single-use plastic products and their follow-up. As you have indicated, Belgium's position must be ambitious in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u66	Madam Minister, on 16 March, the Climate Change case that citizens filed against the competent Belgian authorities will finally begin, following a lengthy procedure. In our neighbouring countries, climate matters are in the wind. In the Netherlands, citizens wrote history by winning the first climate case. In France the victory followed last Wednesday. This is encouraging for the Belgian climate case, which in the past has had a lot of resistance and blockages from the governments on the accused bank. The previous federal government also chose to fight the climate issue mainly, but a new government naturally bears the hope of a new policy. Will this government change its shoulder and at least cooperate transparently in the trial? Or perhaps you are even trying to get all the governments and the initiators of the climate issue to come up with a negotiated solution? What is the position of this government in relation to the climate issue and how will you deal with it?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u67	Mrs Daems, I hope you will understand that we are in court and not in Parliament, especially when we, as a government, are sitting on the accused's bench. It goes without saying that, for that reason, I will be very reluctant and cautious about commenting as long as the trial goes on. However, the substance of the matter is crystal clear and we, as a federal government, are right in our shoes. The climate issue is that governments should avoid dangerous climate changes, primarily by sufficiently reducing greenhouse gas emissions. For example, the co-requirers put forward a reduction target of at least 55% by 2030. As you know, Europe is now embracing this reduction target. In December, the European Union decided to reduce emissions by at least 55% within Europe. Not only can it count on the support of the federal government in the European debates, but this government, in its coalition agreement, has committed itself to achieving the rate of 50% by virtue of its own powers. I'm working on that day in and day out. We are already making a great deal of progress, including investment in the National Recovery and Resilience Plan and the various reforms that are now on the table. Over the coming months and years, I want to show, above all, in deeds, not words, that we prevent dangerous climate changes and fully accept our duty of care for all living beings.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u68	Madam Secretary, thank you for your clarification. We believe that the Belgian authorities are still doing far too little in terms of climate. It is therefore a good thing that citizens are shooting in action and not sticking around. If the massive climate mobilisations of 2019 have taught us anything, then that pressure works from the bottom up. I therefore hope that the Belgian climate case will make its move at home and that the Belgian authorities will finally be obliged to implement climate policy in line with the needs. In the meantime, we look forward to the actions of more than 60,000 supporters of the climate case on 14 March.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u69	Madam Minister, last week the members of the Chamber of Representatives received an open letter in the Youth for Climate bus on the EU-Mercosur agreement, which will soon be ratified in the Chamber. In the heart of the Mercosur zone lies the Amazon rainforest. A year ago, some members of Youth for Climate sailed to the Amazon forest to attend COP 25 Amazonia, Centro del Mundo. There they had the opportunity to exchange ideas with scientists, anthropologists, young Brazilian activists and leaders of indigenous communities in the Amazon. After that experience, they were determined to do everything in their power to protect that extremely valuable area, the lungs of our planet and its inhabitants. They dived into scientific reports and studied policy documents and political initiatives related to them. They concluded that the ratification and entry into force of the free trade agreement between the European Union and Mercosur would be a disaster for four reasons, not only for the Amazon but for all the areas covered by the agreement and for the inhabitants of those areas. Firstly, the agreement is a disaster for the climate and for biodiversity because it will increase deforestation and greenhouse gas emissions. Secondly, the deal is also catastrophic for our farmers, who should compete with unfair, cheap imports of huge quantities of undersized meat at very high costs for our planet. Thirdly, it is a disaster for indigenous communities and environmental defenders, who are already paying for the defense of the Amazon area with their lives today. Finally, it would also be a disaster for public health because our plates will be flooded with food loaded with pesticides, many of which are banned in Europe, but also because mass deforestation combined with intensive livestock farming promotes the emergence of pandemics such as COVID-19. In your capacity as Minister for Sustainable Development, you are jointly responsible for the decisions and impact of such trade agreements on environmental and human rights. Bearing in mind the ambition of the current government to enforce high social and environmental standards through trade agreements, I would like to ask you the following. Do you intend to ratify the disastrous agreement? How do you justify that? Will you review the adverse effects on climate, environment and sustainable development with your colleague, Minister Wilmès, and evaluate the desirability of submitting the agreement for ratification? How exactly are you involved in the decision-making process? What position will you take when this agreement is before the Council of the European Union for a vote? Finally, are you in favour of renegotiating the agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u70	Mrs Daems, I would remind you that negotiations were launched in 1999. Since then, the world has changed. Moreover, the international community has set itself new objectives, including the SDGs. I pay particular attention to the content of the Mercosur agreement with the European Union and to all the information that gives us an idea of the likely impact of its signature on the environment, on social issues and on human rights in the wider sense. The debate is also fueled by civil society, the input of which is greatly appreciated. In my view, sustainable development is not at odds with international trade and vice versa. However, trade must be framed with strict social standards and environmental standards. That is precisely the policy to which the government has committed itself. I quote the text of the government agreement which directly concerns us in this regard: 'We actively support the European approach to establishing high social and environmental standards, fundamental standards and so on through trade agreements, as the basis for our relations with third countries. Belgium therefore only accepts new trade and investment agreements where these standards are binding and enforceable." Youth for Climate quite rightly points to the consequences of such an agreement on biodiversity and deforestation. For example, we know that 10% of Amazon forest deforestation can already be attributed to the Member States of the European Union. With the signing of the agreement, deforestation could increase by 5 to 25% a year for six years, as a result of the increased meat exports which would result from the agreement. I am also particularly concerned about the lack of binding commitments in the "Trade and sustainable development" chapter of the current agreement. A set of fully relevant commitments is mentioned, but they do not imply a legally binding commitment to respect social standards and environmental standards. You also ask me if I intend to address the Foreign Minister, Sophie Wilmès. Of course I will. May I refer you to her statement on this in the policy paper she submitted to the Chamber? I quote: 'The Belgian concerns about deforestation, the fight against global warming and sustainable developments have been highlighted. Belgium also referred to the problem of the possible cumulative impact of the trade agreements on Belgian agriculture. Belgium's support to the agreement will have to be subject to the condition that a number of concrete and executoire commitments are added, with a view to the effective application of the standards set out in the agreement." As Minister responsible for the Green Deal, I see a contradiction between the principles that the Commission has registered in the Green Deal, the new course adopted as a compass for our policies in the EU, and the signing of the agreement, as it has now been drawn up. In short, the contradictions of such an agreement, with the challenges we face today in the social sphere and in the field of the environment and health, seem to me to be far too great for ratification of the agreement, as it now stands. I will make that voice heard in the government and I will draw on studies and analyses carried out by my administration. So I am not opposed to a trade agreement as such, but like the whole government, I will ensure that any commercial agreement ratified by Belgium also provides for environmental standards and social standards and also applies the precautionary principle. The relevant Belgian parliaments will eventually have to take a decision on the basis of the final outcome of the negotiations on ratification of the free trade agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u71	Madam Minister, I am pleased that you consider the demands of young defenders of environmental and social justice to be justified. I hope that as a result Belgium will reject the EU-Mercosur Treaty in its present form. We are pleased that you are not simply going along with the ratification of bad treaties signed by the previous government. It would be a good example of policy coherence if you were not satisfied with the disastrous social standards and environmental standards in the current EU-Mercosur agreement. We therefore hope that you will take action and enforce good social standards and environmental standards.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u72	Mr President, Minister, I read in the press that in the Netherlands the deposit money system has definitely been put on track. This will be done in two steps. I've looked at that system, it looks fine. This was a good reason for me to look again at the coalition agreement. In it, the federal government expressed the ambition to establish this principle in our country with the cooperation of the regional authorities. Brussels and Wallonia are perhaps less of a problem, and that is also what is in the coalition agreement. In Flanders, however, we do not hear much for the time being. Madam Secretary, have you had any discussions on this? What's the status?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u73	Mr President, Mr Verduyckt, although the measures in this dossier are largely the responsibility of my colleague, Minister Van Peteghem, the introduction of deposit money is also part of the federal action plan on the circular economy. We are aiming for less waste and more secondary raw materials. I am currently working with my colleague, Minister Dermagne, and in coordination with the Länder on a federal circular economy action plan to significantly reduce resource use and material footprint in production and consumption. The target date is 2070. I therefore see the introduction of a packaging levy as a lever in the transition to a circular economy. It can ensure that materials continue to circulate in the economy and thus do not end up in nature. However, a packaging levy alone is not enough. We must tackle the problem at the source. The aim is to remove legislative and financial barriers, product standardisation and the extension of product life. You can think of the creation of new value and value retention, more emphasis on reuse, recovery and new business models. It is also necessary to design differently, since 80% of the environmental impact of a product is determined at the design stage. It is therefore also about the fundamental rethinking of products and the system in which they are applied and about far-reaching cooperation between all the actors involved. It is therefore within this cooperation that there will be consultations with the Länder in the coming weeks, but also with colleagues in the Netherlands and the Benelux countries, for example.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u74	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. Last week, your colleague, Mr Dermagne, had already answered another question from me that you are working on the circular economy action plan. I think that is very good news, because I think there are a lot of opportunities. There are, of course, a lot of things to look at here. You refer to the levy on packaging, but there are others. I know your point of view on the deposit money, but I'm very impatient. The problem is well known, we know that deposit money is part of the solution and that it works in different countries. We know that a majority of consumers are in favour of this and that the sector is even saying that the system can be put in place. It is therefore mainly in the hands of politics today. Perhaps it is not entirely in your hands, but you can say in conversations with your colleagues that you will have a lot of questions about this in the federal committee and that you will no longer be able to explain why the system does not yet exist in our country. In that sense, you can use our support to push it through.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u75	Mr President, I would just like to thank the colleagues: I asked that the questions not come back at the last minute. And they heard me, that's why the answers are longer, we had time to answer them. Nevertheless, in one hour and a half, we dealt with thirteen questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u76	Mr President, Mrs Depraetere, thank you for your question and the subject you have been working on for so long, namely the use of collection agencies. Strengthening cooperation with the Energy Ombudsman is essential. At the beginning of this year, we had a first meeting with the ombudsdienst. Suppliers make a lot of efforts to get their invoices paid. They do this not only for themselves, but also for the network operators, for example. The supplier will collect the full invoice. Some suppliers have recourse to collection agencies for recovery. This should be without prejudice to the rights of consumers, such as a reminder letter within 14 days and an indication that people are entitled to a payment plan. We must include this element in the evaluation of the consumer agreement. That is included in the coalition agreement. We have to deal with this in a holistic way. The recovery of the invoice is also enshrined in regional legislation, but the link with the collection agencies must also be included in the review of the consumer agreement. In this way, we can look in a holistic way at how the different powers can work together. You have been very active around the payment period of invoices in the Committee for Economics, Consumer Protection and Digital Agenda. Here the powers of Economy and Energy come together and we need to create that synergy in order to ensure effective policy-making.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u77	Madam Minister, we have been working a lot on the dossier and the first point is, of course, that the invoice must be paid. All the means must be put in place for this. I absolutely agree with that. I am also pleased that you say that all rights must be respected. I am a little concerned that the figures, especially during this period, are rising so rapidly. The best way to get an invoice paid is often not by turning on a collection agency or other debtors, but simply by drawing up a payment plan from the company. Often this is the quickest way to pay off that debt, but also to ensure that the consumer is not confronted with a build-up of debt. I am glad to hear that you are working on it and we will certainly come back to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u78	Minister, in early January, CEN stated that it had taken an important step in the MYRRHA reactor project by successfully generating a proton beam at full power for several hours. In the end, these particles must drive the reactor through a particle accelerator, so that the nuclear waste from the power plants can again be used as fuel in the nuclear reactor. As a result, the stock of waste would decrease, as would its toxicity. The Deputy Director of CEN referred to a reduction in the duration of radiotoxicity of waste from 10,000 years (after chemical treatment) to 300 years. He said: "With MYRRHA, CEN is in the final experimental stage before moving to 400 MW industrial plants capable of treating all European nuclear waste. He further argues that semi-industrial installations should be ready by 2040 or 2050 and that "if we build fifteen such installations in Europe, we will have sufficient capacity by 2070 or 2080 to handle the highly radioactive waste of the 144 nuclear reactors in the European Union. A Doel or Tihange-sized site would be enough to treat all the waste." However, many obstacles remain to be overcome in order to carry out the entire MYRRHA project, including the issue of funding. The CEN relies heavily on international support. Minister, could you tell us more about this important step taken by the CEN? Could you provide us with a more general overview of the MYRRHA project, including funding, but also of the SMART project? How has progress been made on these projects in recent months? What are the actual results of the international survey of MYRRHA?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u79	Mr Ben Achour, I would like to stress what is included in the government agreement, in particular that Belgium has leading institutions, with a great deal of know-how, and that we recognize and continue to support the excellence of the SCK CEN and IRE research. With regard to the SMART project, since 2018, the IRE has been carrying out the research and development phase of molybdenum 99 production technology at the start of molybdenum 100. This innovative project aims to be able to pass on the use of uranium to produce this essential medical radioisotope. This phase includes theoretical studies, construction of test facilities and actual tests. The schedule for the completion of this phase of studies and tests runs until 2022, when it should be possible to confirm or not the industrial viability of this process. At the end of this phase, the IRE will be able to decide whether to invest in a Molybdenum-99 molecule production line. If this decision is taken, the first commercial productions of Molybdenum-99 from the accelerator should take place in the second half of 2028. To date, the IRE has not identified any major technical difficulties that could raise concerns about the technological impossibility of this process. The IRE is therefore still confident to demonstrate the industrial viability of this innovative and disruptive technology in the medical radioisotope sector, which is also included in the government's stimulus plan. As far as MYRRHA is concerned, these are the same answers given to Mr Bombled's questions that I have already answered. In summary, the important step announced by the SKC-CEN is the first acceleration of the MYRRHA proton beam. For the first time, the radiofrequency quadruple produced a beam of protons to the conditions and criteria required to drive the particle accelerator. As far as funding is concerned, I have also answered Mr Bombled's question. I will repeat what I said: I have commissioned my services and my administration to work on the constitution of the MYRRHA ISSBL as set out in the 2018 decision, which will primarily aim to attract foreign partners. This is an important step in assisting the SCK CEN in the MYRRHA project. I will implement this decision with my colleague Thomas Dermine, who is also responsible for this matter. We will soon proceed to the next steps.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u80	Mr President, I will refer to the report of the reply given to Mr Bombled. It would have been interesting, if the answer were common, to be able to attach both questions. Even so, perhaps their purpose should have been clarified more clearly, so that the services could organise the agenda in a more coherent way. I welcome the answers which are rather optimistic about the continuation of this important project, which could revolutionise our vision of the nuclear waste industry and management, with obviously real opportunities for Belgium to position itself at the cutting edge of technology. I thank you and will not fail to come back to the subject when it is necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u81	Mr President, Madam Minister, my written question is very brief and I will give her a little more flesh. As you know – you take on your responsibilities in this area, which is very good – security of supply is a constant concern whether it is for today or for tomorrow, and certainly for after 2025. The evolution of the cost of energy is equally so. These two elements are obviously highly related to each other. That is why it is important to examine their evolution and to follow it step by step with all the necessary vigilance. Minister, what have you undertaken since your installation to develop this follow-up? Can we know the first elements of this? Can we possibly receive the reports of the various meetings that have already been held within the framework of the follow-up committee that you have set up for this purpose?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u82	Mr President, Mrs Marghem, a number of instruments for monitoring security of supply already exist. In addition to the ongoing oversight of procurement security by my administration, there are reports related to the strategic reserve. In addition, my administration is fully cooperating with the next Elia study on adequacy and flexibility. Analysis of energy cost monitoring is also under way. I refer here to the answer that I gave to the questions raised by Messrs. Bert Wollants and Kurt Ravyts, two weeks ago. Last week, my firm had a meeting with CREG to get an overview of the preparatory work and the work already done in the past. As far as I am concerned, I started discussions with stakeholders last week. That's how I had a meeting with members of the FEB. I also answered a similar question from Mr Kris Verduyckt, who asked me what associations I planned to meet with. I will organize similar sessions with UNIZE, UCM, trade unions, Test Purchases and the King Baudouin Foundation. Finally, I intend to seek the opinion of the CREG Advisory Council on this; it is important because it is within the framework of this Council that all stakeholders meet.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u83	Minister, thank you for your answer. I attended the committees that you recalled earlier. However, the number of questions is such that these meetings are spread over time. I would have been satisfied with the answer given the last time, if I had been able to ask my question that day. Since then, a little time has passed. You were able to link it to what happened in the meantime, and I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u84	Madam Minister, you know that a strengthening of the Act of 11 April 2003 on the existence, sufficiency and availability of nuclear supplies is necessary. I have tabled a bill on this that you are probably familiar with. What are you going to do to ensure that the Belgian legislative framework guarantees the three requirements I have just mentioned (existence, sufficiency and availability of nuclear supplies) for the dismantling of our nuclear power plants and the treatment of radioactive waste? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u85	Mrs Marghem, from the very beginning of my term of office, I have contacted the Commission for Nuclear Supplies to take stock of this issue. At the end of December 2020, I asked the committee to give me an opinion on the question of strengthening the law of 11 April 2003 and this for the beginning of February 2022. You know that in the government agreement it is stated that the legislative framework will be optimised on the basis of an opinion of the Commission. The Commission has confirmed that I am working on this, but it asked me to deliver this opinion at the end of February in order to be able to finalize the on-going technical analyses. I accepted that request. Once this opinion is in my possession, I will analyze it in order to define the guidelines of my proposed future amendment to give full assurance as to the existence, sufficiency and availability of nuclear supplies. Given the complexity of this issue, this process will take a few more months, but, as you read in my policy note, it is one of my priorities for 2021.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u86	Minister, will the Nuclear Supplies Commission give you this notice at the end of February 2021 or 2022? I didn't hear right.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u87	It'll be 2021.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u88	Indeed, you said 2022 – this can happen – and I was a little more surprised as she has already studied this subject at length and deeply. So I was a little surprised by the length of this delay. I am now reassured and will of course follow the adjustments you intend to make after analysing this opinion. Can this opinion be communicated to us?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u89	If the minister answers, we're off for a second round.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u90	That's not the answer! Can this opinion be communicated to us? That's it!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u91	I do not yet have a decision or opinion on this matter. I'm waiting for the notice, and then we'll start work on a bill. We will proceed step by step. I haven't received this notice yet, so I don't know when I'll pass it on.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u92	I'll ask you again about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u93	I am sticking to the Rules of Procedure. One asks a question, one gets an answer, and one gives a reply. If, in the reply, a new question is raised, the Rules do not permit further discussion. I would ask Mrs Marghem to put this on the agenda of the Conference of Presidents. I cannot allow this to happen. The Rules of Procedure are the Rules of Procedure! If we get out of this rule, every new question we go for glory! So I can't accept it. The minister replied. Normally, the last word is for Parliament, but we are not going to go on like this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u94	There's no problem. I will put the question to the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u95	Perfect! I'll meet you there.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u96	Mr President, Madam Minister, I would like to know the status of the administrative file relating to the preparation of the impact studies relating to Doel 1 and Doel 2 and, more precisely, following the ruling of the Constitutional Court more than a year ago on this matter. When is public consultation planned? When will the amending bill be tabled in Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u97	Mr President, Minister, as we all know, the nuclear reactors Objective 1 and 2 are supplied with their fuel from Germany. However, appeals have been initiated against the fuel transport permit granted. A court previously ruled that the first appeal procedure does not have suspensory effect. So there's no big problem in itself right now. However, there is still a second appeal procedure. We still do not know whether it will work suspensively. The fuel of those nuclear reactors shall be placed during the planned revision. This will take place for Objective 1 between May and early July 2021 and for Objective 2 between the end of March and the beginning of May 2021. Madam Minister, you have already stated that you are taking this possible deficit very seriously. I would have liked to know from you whether you have already contacted the operator? If so, what information and explanations have you received with regard to the current situation? What assessment do you make of this whole situation? Have you already contacted the German authorities on this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u98	Mr President, with regard to Mrs Marghem's questions, the SCK CEN is closing the security of supply component of this environmental impact assessment on the postponement of the deactivation of Doel 1 and 2 power plants. At the end of December, I notified the regional and federal authorities of our intention to hold this public consultation before the summer. My administration and our advice are in the process of finalizing the details of this. They offer me a detailed schedule in February, after a contact with the regional administrations concerned. This schedule has not been changed. I plan to introduce the "repair" bill by the end of the year or, at the latest, by the beginning of 2022. As I have always indicated, we will use 2021 to accomplish everything required by the Constitutional Court's decision and 2022 to devote ourselves to legislative work. As for the questions about nuclear fuel, Electrabel keeps my services and my administration informed about the evolution of this dossier. Electrabel has given me the following information. Firstly, a legal procedure is currently under way in Germany with regard to a comparable transport dossier, a procedure which will have to clarify the planned transports to Objective in the coming weeks. Secondly, Electrabel has asked his supplier, Framatome, to respect the contractual agreements and take all necessary legal steps to ensure the timely delivery of all fuel to the plants Objective 1 and Objective 2 for this year. Thirdly, Electrabel stresses that the timely delivery is necessary in order to reload the plants correctly and that it is necessary to find solutions to ensure the continuity of fuel supplies in the coming years, until the legally planned closure of the plants in 2025. Fourthly, we understand that supplies of fuel have already begun. For the other set of questions I will not interfere in ongoing legal proceedings. My services and my administration are closely following up the dossier in the context of security of supply. Mr Cogolati, only Doel 1 and Doel 2 are involved in this dispute. As I have already explained to you, the technical specificities of fuels for Doel 1 and Doel 2 plants make it difficult for Electrabel to find another supplier within a reasonable time. You will easily understand that a nuclear power plant cannot operate without fuel. We are following the development of this issue very closely. My services and my administration have just been informed of this new development by Electrabel and we are analysing it to assess its consequences.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u99	Madam Minister, thank you for your explanation, which you had already given on the occasion of a question. She confirms that the timing I had imagined for the journey of this file is quite in the nails, which is very good.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u100	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u101	Madam Minister, you have indicated that the deliveries of nuclear fuels have now begun and that you are keeping your finger on the wrist with the people of ENGIE Electrabel. I think that is very important, because we cannot afford a standstill, especially when the situation is at risk of becoming serious or precarious. I would therefore like to count on you, as Minister, to continue to pay attention to this issue and to continue to follow the various procedures closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u102	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. We have been given a glimmer of hope by saying that the deliveries of nuclear fuels have begun. That's good news. Hopefully we will be able to maintain this timing, otherwise there will be a problem. You'll keep the finger on the wrist. If it does not succeed, it must be all hands on deck to ensure that our security of supply is not compromised.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u103	Mr President, Madam Minister, Article 173(2) of the Act of 8 August 1980, which you are well aware of, provides that the State must be represented on the board of directors of a number of public limited liability companies active in the energy sector. The representative shall have the right to suspend the decisions of the Management Board when he considers that they are contrary to the general interest and, in particular, to the energy policy of the Government. The King shall determine the manner in which this right of suspension shall be exercised. Should not the Minister, Electrabel, the successor in law of the companies referred to in this section, receive a representative from the government on its board of directors in delegation? Will a government representative be appointed to Electrabel? Or do you feel that you cannot use the 1980 law to delegate such a representative to Electrabel?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u104	Mrs Marghem, your question is interesting especially for the lawyers we are. It concerns Article 173(2) of the Act of 8 August 1980, which is still applicable. The existence of this article in this law has already caused the same questions ten years ago, particularly on my part.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u105	That's right!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u106	I read the reply of Mr Magnette, the minister responsible at the time; it is dated 10 November 2009 and remains valid. "This provision was introduced long before the liberalisation of the electricity market and the establishment of the Electricity and Gas Control Committee. In the meantime, the CREG has resumed many missions. The legal basis for the presence of a State representative on the boards of directors still exists. I have asked my administration to consider the possibility of implementing it. We have, moreover, another commissioner of the government to Elias." A further response was provided by Mr. Magnette on March 16, 2010. "Further than to appoint the representatives of the federal government to companies which hold important market shares in the field of energy and/or which play an important role in security of supply, which entails the risk of creating difficulties with the European authorities, in particular as regards compliance with rules on freedom of establishment and the free movement of capital, the government is privileged to implement mechanisms for the exchange of information." In my opinion, these answers remain valid. In view of the current state of affairs, the European legislation on the organisation of the energy market in Europe and the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union on the golden shares and the rights attached thereto, I do not think it is appropriate to implement it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u107	Mr President, I note that in ten years the minister has matured by endorsing the responses of the ministers she then interviewed and against whom she was fighting hard to get a government representative in a limited company with a commercial purpose such as Electrabel. For this reason, I am pleased that the European developments and its new maturity prohibit the use of this law to send a government representative to a society that works freely on the market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u108	Madam Minister, I would have liked to have had a state of play on the extension of the social energy tariff. When did this social energy tariff increase take place? Can you tell me exactly how many people are entitled to it? Do you have a view of the impact of this measure on those living in energy poverty? In other words, are all those living in energy poverty entitled to the social energy tariff? Anybody else fall out of the boat? In addition, there is the general problem that people who are entitled to social benefits or measures must take certain steps themselves. Are there any prospects for simplifying this and, if necessary, granting these rights automatically?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u109	Madam Minister, I refer to the question that has been put. I do have a brief supplementary question, namely whether the new rate is immediately included in the advance invoice.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u110	Ladies and gentlemen, you know that this is a subject that is very close to my heart. One in five can now pay or not pay the bill and we have long known the instrument of the social tariff, which currently reaches about 10% of the population. Until now, this social tariff has been granted on the basis of social statutes determined by a number of social institutions. In order to be entitled to the social tariff, it is therefore necessary to have a certain social status. In particular, these are allowances granted by the OCMW, persons with disabilities, a statute granted by the Pension Service and the Flemish Zorgkas. Although these statutes account for family income, this is an indirect way of charging that family income when applying the social rate. Many organisations and poverty experts have long been working for a more direct way of looking at income. Therefore, in the context of the aftermath of the covid crisis, the government has decided to extend the target group temporarily. During the year 2021, the target group will be expanded on the basis of a direct income criterion, in particular the increased benefit. Persons with low incomes are entitled to the increased allowance. They pay less for health care and they also have other financial benefits. Persons entitled to this increased allowance are either people who receive a specific benefit and who already receive the social rate, or are registered with the sickness fund under a specific status, for example as an orphan or unaccompanied minor, or have an income covered by a border amount. In 2019, 438.309 households were entitled to the social tariff and to the natural gas 266.346 families. According to the CREG estimates, an additional 447,000 households will be eligible as a result of enlargement, which automatically gives about 20% of household energy customers the social tariff. This also says something about the number of people living on low incomes in our country who have a precarious income status. Enlargement started on 1 February 2021. The Royal Decree of 28 January was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 1 February 2021. Then I come to your question about the advance. It's a good question and I'm going to turn it off at FEBEG. The supplier does indeed assign his customers, he grants the social rate automatically and could take this into account when determining the advance. I am going to include this in addition via FEBEG with the suppliers, to see if they can do so effectively. We can then come back to that at a later date. Your second question was about the social tariff applicable to the heat grids. The law of 2 May 2019 establishes the possible entry into force on 1 January 2020. We've passed that date in the meantime. It was not possible for the government in current cases to make progress. It was picked up now. Following the formation of the new government, consultations were held with the relevant Cabinets and the CREG, which has an important role to play in this. We are currently working on implementing decisions so that the social tariff for the supply of heat can start in the course of this year. However, there is still a need for an opinion from the CREG and for consultation with the Regions, as the heat grids are also a competence of the Regions. I expect that opinion from the CREG in March 2021. This opinion is about the social rate for heat and also about the financing of the system.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u111	Madam Secretary, thank you for the information. You have given the figures of the number of customers entitled to the social rate in 2019. I assume that the figures for natural gas and electricity largely overlap. This year there are 447,000 families extra, so about a doubling. As you yourself say, this indeed demonstrates the extent of the problem of energy poverty. You didn't answer my question as to whether people are still falling out of the boat. That is, of course, a difficult question. This must be sufficiently known to the people who can enjoy it and the procedure must be made as simple as possible administratively. This is certainly a good measure and I look forward to further tackling energy poverty.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u112	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. We cannot stress enough how important it is for this to happen. Its impact is very large for a lot of people, hence my question about the advance bill. A lot of people are waiting for that social rate, while they only feel the impact after a quarter or even later. It would make a difference, should this be taken into account immediately on the advance invoice. I'm glad you're going to talk about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u113	Madam Secretary, on 8 January, we were closest to a European blackout since the incident with the shutdown of a low-hanging high-voltage line to allow the cruise ship Norwegian Pearl to pass in 2006. On 8 January there was not only a warning from the French RTE, internally then, not to consume too much power in France, it was also reported that at that time there was a situation with little sun and wind, among others with us, but also in Germany, which created a situation with a greater dependence on the remaining controllable capacity. There are also sources that indicate an incident in the Romanian network. This would have been the basis of a frequency reduction which then continued in other networks. It is not clear to me what exactly was going on there. There are also few sources that can formally confirm it. In the end, it turns out that this cascade could be blocked by taking 1.7 GW load off the grid in France and Italy. The question, of course, arises as to how Europe is faced with our resilience to such situations. To what extent do we also have sufficient capacity in a situation with little sun and wind in addition to intermittent electricity production? Can you explain what the exact circumstances were and what factors have played a direct role in the problem outlined? What lessons are learned from this? Are there any concerns on our own grid to protect our electricity users from this? Are exercises being carried out in a European context to see how we can be more resilient to such phenomena? I understand that, for example, in Germany, people were quite concerned about this situation. In what way does this have an effect on the policies you set out in your policy statement and policy statement?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u114	Mr Wollants, as regards the incident itself, on 8 January 2021 at 2.04 p.m. there was an flood protection at a high-voltage station in Croatia, in Ernestinovo. The reason for this is unclear and is further investigated. A panel of six experts was set up. The investigation will take six months. The result of the incident was that the entire connection from northwest to southeast was interrupted, resulting in a cascade of automatic interruptions over Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Romania. The whole continental European network was divided into two zones. Firstly, a northwest zone, including Belgium, with a deficit of 6.3 GW, due to the decrease in the frequency from 50 Hz to 49.74 Hz for 15 seconds. Secondly, in the southeast zone there was a surplus of 6.3 GW. The system restoration, again to 50 Hz, was achieved mainly by reconnecting contracted underbreakable consumers in France and Italy after 45 minutes, triggering support capacity in the Nordic and Great Britain Synchronous zone, and synchronizing two frequency zones in northwest and southeast, at 15.08 hours, i.e. after 1 hour. A report on this subject has been published by the ENTSO-E in which a more comprehensive analysis can be found. It was published on the website of the ENTSO-E on 26 January. As far as lesson learning is concerned, all the transmission system operators' plans in Europe have worked. The incident occurred within a very short period of time, 15 seconds, and could only be stabilized by means of automatic security. Any human intervention would have come way too late. The reaction of the automatisms has shown that the transmission system is resilient to this phenomenon. In Belgium too, Elia has a plan to deal with real-time incidents on the network, namely the system protection plan. It is now awaiting the conclusions of further research by the experts concerned in order to be able to take further action at European and national level. There is a working group within the ENTSO-E working on a list of improvement points to reduce the likelihood of such an incident in the future. As regards European crisis exercises, there was a crisis exercise, PENTEX 2018, on 20 June 2018, in the lap of the Pentalateral Energy Forum. There's a report on that. There are recommendations of that too. I said earlier, in response to Mr Ravyts' question, that we are working on a risk preparedness plan following the implementation of the security of supply regulation. Elia is part of the Regional Security Coordinator, Coreso, which is also working on projects to increase the security of the European network. Finally, Elia's network operators regularly practice with the operators of other transmission system operators on a simulator in Germany. As far as the impact on my policies is concerned, this incident proves the usefulness and strength of European cooperation. All the preparations for the Regulation on risk preparedness, system protection and recovery plans have worked. Belgium is currently chairing the Pentalateral Energy Forum where the coherent implementation of the European Risk Preparedness Regulation is high on the agenda. This means that we must foster and develop cooperation in order to be able to respond adequately to such short incidents.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u115	Madam Minister, I understand that it is difficult to summarise within two minutes an investigation to be carried out in six months' time. I understand that there are still some exercises to be done. It's a short incident, but just such short incidents can have a very big impact. In 2006 the problem was not that it would take a very long time to get that boat passed, but that a cascade would enter into force immediately, which would be very difficult to stop. In the event that we are discussing it now, much better has been done, probably because the mechanisms are now also a part further than they were then. However, I believe that we must ensure that this is sufficiently robust. There must also be some kind of defence in depth for the high voltage grid, knowing that with the evolutions we know in our electricity system this can become more and more an issue. The role of the TSOs is therefore becoming increasingly important because the margins on them are perhaps a lot smaller than they have ever been in the past, or because the changes are at least a lot smaller than they used to be. I am counting on this to remain high on the agenda and to see how we can proceed with it. If something happens to go wrong in the reaction system, which is always possible because it remains technology, then the consequences can be very large. We're all glad this didn't happen. However, it seems to me appropriate to pay sufficient attention to this, so that we are firmly committed to this in our future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u116	Mr. President, Minister, the International Energy Agency's (IEA) Sustainable Recovery Report, produced in collaboration with the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and published on June 18, 2020, highlights the risk of an increase in global carbon pollution in the aftermath of the health and economic crisis of the Covid-19, an increase substantially similar to that recorded between 2009 and 2010 after the economic crisis of 2008-2009, which was estimated at 1.7 Gt CO2. This report proposes a series of measures to stimulate economic growth, to make 2019 the definitive peak of global carbon emissions and to promote the achievement of long-term climate targets, including those stipulated in the Paris Agreement. Madam Minister, I have no doubt that you have been able to take note of these measures and I would like to have your feedback on them. In addition, your policy note stresses that "participation in various multilateral energy organisations, including the International Energy Agency (IEA), the International Renewable Energy Agency (IRENA), the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) and the International Energy Forum (IEF) will be continued". Would we be able to know whether any contacts have been made with these different organisations concerning the energy aspects of the Belgian recovery, and more particularly with the IEA? If so, could we have any information on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u117	Mr President, Mr Senesael, the report specifically cited is a special report linked to the World Energy Outlook which contains a wealth of useful information and data included in our intra-Belgian reflections on recovery and related energy aspects. I have already taken note of some important key messages that we can certainly include in our internal Belgian reflections, in particular with my colleague, Secretary of State Thomas Dermine, in the context of the development of a Belgian recovery and resilience plan. The elements that draw my attention to in this report and that I would like to include are the following. I note that the report focuses on the same sectors as those identified as priorities for Belgium's energy policy, namely electrification, transport, industry, buildings, fuels and climate neutral emerging technologies such as hydrogen, storage and offshore wind energy. I also support the report's main conclusion that a cleaner, fairer and more secure energy future is within reach, which, I am convinced, is possible for our country as long as we consider green recovery as the way forward, for which cooperation between the various supervisory ministers is therefore essential in order to achieve this. For your questions about the International Energy Agency (IEA), I just participated last week in the presentation of the Word Energy Outlook with my colleague Mr Thomas Dermine. I will continue to participate actively in events to be organized, including the COP 26 Allied Summit on Clean Energy Transitions to be held on March 31, 2021, which I look forward to. I am convinced of the importance of such initiatives. I also want to tell you, Mr Senesael, that I will be part of the Global Committee on People-Centred Clean Energy Transitions, which will be chaired by Prime Minister Mette Frederiksen and Dan Jørgensen, Danish Minister for Climate and Energy. This will enable us to focus our attention in the recovery plans, not only on everything about infrastructure, but also on the social and economic consequences of the transition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u118	Minister, thank you for your answers. I would like to stress and thank you for your involvement and enthusiasm in this issue. It is a pleasure, because, as you rightly stress, it is important to refine his thinking on the energy aspects during this economic recovery. I believe that economic recovery is necessary and particular attention will be paid to all aspects of climate and energy, particularly by experienced observers. In this recovery, our attention must, of course, focus on all the main sectors of our economy's development. You have talked about transport, industry, buildings, but also, and I think that this should be given special attention, as far as renewable energy is concerned. To participate in this development, this cleaner and fairer energy future is a reference that Belgium must support, in cooperation, as you have pointed out, with the ministers of the federated entities and the ministers responsible for the various sectors concerned. I will be attentive to the development of this issue, as will you, Madam Minister. I thank you again for your involvement in the various structures you mentioned.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u119	Mr President, Minister, a number of energy projects were highlighted in the presentation of the federal recovery plan. Among other things, there was talk of CO2 capture at new gas plants, energy storage and an energy island. At least that is what I read in the press afterwards. The first and last points I have just mentioned are particularly striking. After all, you told me that the CO2 capture at gas plants would be particularly expensive on the basis of the files you had at your disposal. To my question about the energy atoll, you replied that it was without an object. In the meantime, however, I understand that this is about another energy island, which you will be clarifying shortly. This means that things are being changed or that you see things differently in some areas than they were a while ago. I have a number of questions about this. What energy projects are included in the federal relay plans? Can you explain them in detail? What is the timing for the projects? What are the budgets allocated to each of the proposals? Is there a change in understanding of carbon capture at gas plants? In what sense would that be? How do you see the energy island? Is that related to your earlier statements or is it about something completely new?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u120	Mr President, Mrs Van der Straeten, there was an interesting interview with you in L'Echo last weekend. I quote: 'I am very proud that our Belgian relaunch plan on the federal side counts for more than half of green investment, while Europe imposes 37%. We want to continue in the transition and in the transition. Green relay is the vaccine for our economy." Mr Wollants has listed a number of concrete elements, namely EUR 100 million for the second offshore wind energy zone, the issue of CO2 emissions from gas plants to the tune of EUR 50 million and, of course, the energy island. Can you explain these projects more clearly, especially when it appears that the 37 % rule on ecological transition projects laid down by the Recovery and Resilience Programme is exceeded?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u121	Mr President, Madam Minister, as part of the Belgian relaunch plan that you presented to the European Commission, the government wants to create an energy hub in the North Sea, develop a hydrogen network and isolate buildings. Finally, the government also talks about the transformation fund as part of the relay plan. Madam Minister, what exactly is meant by creating an energy hub or power plant in the North Sea? Mr Wollants spoke of an atoll. That sounds tropical, but what is that supposed to mean? You spoke on the radio about doubling the ambition of wind at sea. Are you talking about a second offshore zone so we can go to 4 gigawatts? Or are you planning to further increase the ambition of offshore wind energy in the Belgian part of the North Sea? What other developments are there in the field of the energy hub in the Belgian part of the North Sea? Which projects exactly have you submitted to Europe? Can you give a time indication for these projects? What projects have you already submitted in relation to hydrogen? Can you provide more information about this? What's the timing of that? What is the role of public authorities in these projects vis-à-vis the private sector? The government will also receive EUR 50 million to reduce CO2 emissions from the new gas plants that are being built. What projects and technologies are we talking about? Is there an agreement with the Regions on this? How are you going to realise this in concrete terms? Is this an obligation for the producer who builds new gas plants and is subsidised for that purpose? I've questioned the government on several occasions about the transformation fund. I know that the FPIM falls within the competence of the Minister of Finance, but on the radio you talked about supporting SMEs. How will the transformation fund contribute to the green relay? What are the terms? Which types of companies or SMEs will receive support? In what way are you involved as Minister of Energy?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u122	Mr President, Minister, a great deal has already been said about the Belgian recovery plan. You stated that €1 billion will be released for renewable energy and mobility. In fact, I would have liked to have been given some more explanation of the specific hydrogen projects on which there would be an agreement in the plan. I would also like to come back to the morning of February 1. You stated there that climate will be the employer of the future and that today's poor companies will have access to green energy. At that time the question was asked as to what the firms in difficulty have to do with it. That is a statement with which many entrepreneurs were not happy, Madam Secretary. What is the basis of this ruling?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u123	Mr President, Minister, I am going to talk about another part of the relay plan. The research center SCK is almost in my backyard and that is one of the reasons why I pay extra attention to his activities. For example, we know that with NURA the SCK significantly strengthens its contribution to the fight against cancer. By pooling his knowledge and expertise in the field of radiopharmaceuticals, NURA contributes to the development of the next generation of therapeutic radiopharmaceuticals. More specifically, NURA conducts groundbreaking research into radiopharmaceuticals for the treatment of different types of cancer, in collaboration with clinical and industrial partners. We could read in the press that there would also be 165 million euros for research and that nuclear research would be part of it, particularly as regards innovative cancer treatments. Can you explain exactly which projects are involved? Will the existing expertise in our research institutions, in particular the SCK and the IRE, continue to be built on? In what way are they involved? What is the timing for these projects?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u124	Mr President, the federal government's relaunch plan was, of course, drawn up with a view to a sustainable and prosperous Belgium, with the 2030 horizon. The plan is ideally green on one side and digital on the other. As part of this plan, we want to make the necessary investments in our country, just as we had to rebuild our society after the Second World War. At that time we also made public investments in our infrastructure: roads, ports and ring-ships were built. That has laid the foundation for prosperity in the years after. Today we must do the same exercise: investing in tomorrow's infrastructure. The energy projects actually form a table with four legs, four pillars. These four pillars are hydrogen and carbon dioxide infrastructure, marine infrastructure, molecules and our nuclear know-how. For those four pillars, as far as energy is concerned, they are co-investments, which are not mere subsidies, and which also focus on the leverage effect. The government, together with private investors, is looking at how we can create the desired impact and leverage effect. These four pillars are also subject to an industrial policy: the challenges of transition, in particular the energy transition, are very great, but we need these investments to ensure that the energy transition is successful. You have all asked me for more information on the specific projects. As far as hydrogen and carbon dioxide infrastructure is concerned, this amounts to EUR 95 million for backbone. This also fits in with a reform sheet for Europe, which is important not only for the projects but also for the reforms accompanying them, in which we will clarify the legal framework, including cooperation with the regional authorities. For hydrogen we are explicitly looking for complementarity, on the one hand between infrastructure and production and, on the other hand, between the federal government and the Regions in this area. We hope to get the legal framework clear in the course of 2021, so that the concrete projects can start from 2022. I very much welcome the exchanges of views on hydrogen that will take place in committee. They will be able to feed the legislative work and follow-up of projects. The second pillar, the molecules, is about 50 million euros. There will be an additional €10 million for molecules and hydrogen, specifically aimed at reducing CO2 emissions from power plants, and possibly also for gas plants. I am not pinning myself on technology in this. For me, it's about decarbonizing the CRM. This afternoon I will also show a slide in which the different tracks come together and one of them is this track. It's about getting those power stations ready for the carbon-neutral world of 2050. We are expected to have zero emissions by 2050, but we will also need flexible capacity. This flexible capacity must therefore not have emissions, which is why we must include them in the relance plan, so that we can support this innovation in technology. In addition, hydrogen is also planned to be used within offshore wind farms. Here, in terms of timing, we are going to work with a call to do an award at the end of 2021, beginning 2022. This is, as far as is necessary, separate from the CRM, but we can deal with it later. The CRM is technology-neutral, but for the aspects of decarbonisation we have opted to insert it into the RRF "Relance Plan." The tracks will come together nicely because the timing of both coincides. Within the Relance Plan, the funds should be committed in 2022 and the projects should be realised by 2025. The CRM plants are expected to be available and be able to deliver from 2025. A more detailed question from Mr Dierick is about the energy island, so I shall now confine myself to the main points. It's 100 million euros. It is not about the energy atoll we talked about last week, but about an energy hub in the North Sea that will allow further unlocking. I will go into this in more detail when Mrs Dierick's question comes up. The fourth pillar is about our nuclear know-how. Mrs Buyst asked a question about this. There are two aspects to this. The one aspect to which you referred is the beautiful Nura project of the SCK CEN and the SMART project of the IRE, together with EUR 35 million for the support and development of radioisotope production facilities used for cancer diagnosis and treatment. For Nura, these are two partial projects, namely the construction of a radiopharmaceutical installation and the feasibility study for actinium-225 production. Actinium-225 is considered one of the most promising therapeutic radioisotopes for future nuclear medicine. In addition, the study also includes research into radioactive waste streams and the activities necessary for obtaining the permit for such an installation. The SMART project of the IRE aims to achieve a sustainable production method of the medical isotope molybdenum-99. The other aspect is the denuclearisation of 25 million to keep our Belgian expertise here and to treat nuclear waste in a correct and responsible way and to reduce its impact as much as possible. In particular, the SCK has already acquired a great deal of knowledge in this area and has been able to develop many innovative techniques for the decommissioning of nuclear reactors. They then submitted a project, together with ENGIE, to optimize chemical decontamination and minimise the amount of radioactive waste. SMEs with relevant expertise are also invited to participate. Here the real aim is to pool existing knowledge, including with a view to export. We'll be the fourth country worldwide on decommissioning. It is really the intention of this government to keep, strengthen and anchor that know-how in order to be able to export it. So these are all projects that are supported by other actors, such as the IRE and the SCK for the nuclear part, Fluxys and Elia for the infrastructure projects. I would therefore very much like to be at Parliament's disposal, possibly together with the other actors, in order to tackle the projects in greater depth. For each of these projects, a route is now being started to identify the funds and to be able to implement the projects. These are excellent projects for which a lot of legislative work is needed in the short term. I am therefore happy to be at Parliament's disposal to see how we can organise a number of exchanges of views on this matter as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u125	Madam Secretary, I think your suggestion is valuable. Within the time frame of the oral questions, it is difficult to deal with everything. In the next discussion of the arrangements for the work, we must consider how we can plan them usefully. I shall give the floor to colleagues for the replies.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u126	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. Indeed, I find it useful to discuss all these projects in depth, because my one-minute reply is not enough to replicate anything relevant to all the things you have said. I follow the President's suggestion that we proceed with this, so that we can also ask questions in depth.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u127	Thank you, Minister, for your answer and for transparency. In the meantime, I have found the quote correctly and it goes like this: "We pushed to move forward in the transition." The word poussé, pushed, says everything about the green stamp in the coalition agreement, to which Mr Van Lommel already referred. You go beyond the 37 % line. I know that Europe can delete a number of projects in its tranche ring and qualification, which we will see in April, or perhaps a little later. Thank you, at least, for the explanation. Together with Mr Van Lommel's resolution on hydrogen, we are following this further.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u128	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer and the information you gave on the largely informative questions. You have not said anything about the transformation fund, so it is still waiting to see what that will mean. We may come back to the relationship between CRM and the decarbonisation of the new gas plants, because your explanation raises a number of new questions. Has that been discussed? Is there an agreement by the Regions on this? Since the authorisation of the Regions should be granted, the Regions may impose conditions of authorisation. With regard to the relaunch plan, we will certainly support the idea of organising a hearing on this subject, because that certainly seems useful to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u129	Madam Minister, I was particularly curious to see the hydrogen projects under way. They are contained in the Belgian recovery plan worth 1 billion on which an agreement has been reached. This subject is very close to my heart. It will be very soon 30 April, when the European Commission will have to give its agreement. Like my fellow Members, I am pleased that we will be holding hearings in the context of the motion for a resolution that I have tabled. After all, they will clarify a number of issues. You say that we must strive for complementarity. We can only welcome that. However, you did not reply to the second part of my question, concerning your statements in De Morgend. I would urge you to be careful with such statements in the future. We all know that 37% of the relay money has to go to the energy transition and 20% to digitization. A large part of the money will therefore not go to the existing poor economies. If you say that these people will have access to green energy, then these entrepreneurs will, of course, have access to a cold stone. Those aren't statements they're waiting for at the time. So I can only hope that in future you will respond to such questions with sufficient tact and caution.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u130	Madam Secretary, 35 million people worldwide are diagnosed or treated through nuclear medicine every year. It is therefore very important that Belgium can continue to play its pioneering role in this and that the government chooses to continue to play the role of precursor by investing in research and development. In addition, the SCK provides a lot of employment in my region. I am therefore very pleased to hear that you want to continue to use the SCK's know-how on the decommissioning of nuclear power plants. You also said that it could also be exported. A few years ago, in an interview on RTV, I lanced to see whether the SCK could not be transformed into a core safety study centre. My colleague, Kristof Calvo, has also said a number of times that the SCK could become the partner of the FANC to assist the FANC in the field of nuclear safety. Your answers give me incentives and they rejoice because they give incentives to organise employment in my region in a different way, in a sustainable way. In short, thank you very much for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u131	Madam Minister, there has been a lot of talk in recent months about reducing federal costs on the energy bill. There is a lot of communication about this, but of course people also read that, as a result of previous decisions by a previous government, the offshore surcharge is rising. It concerns the levy on certificates for offshore wind farms. I believe that the CREG blames this increase on the operation of the three most recent offshore wind farms, two of which were put into operation last year. This is, of course, somewhat in contrast to the triumphant announcement by the then Secretary of State of the North Sea, in cooperation with the then Energy Minister, Mrs Marghem, of the new certification mechanism for the three jetty wind farms, which would be built at a lower price than their predecessors. The support period was set at 16 years, possibly renewable with 1 year in the case of lower wind conditions. They achieved a saving of no less than EUR 3.9 billion with the cheaper parks in the long term. Philippe De Backer said: "Thanks to this price, we achieve an annual savings of 11 euros on the consumer's electricity bill." Let there be exactly an increase from 9 euros to 11.6 euros, excluding VAT, an increase of 30%. So that 11 euro comes up again in a sarcastic or cynical way. It may be technically easy to explain, but can you explain the latest increase in the bill for electricity consumers due to the offshore impact?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u132	Madam Minister, last week it was written in all the Flemish newspapers: the energy bill has secretly become 11 euros more expensive by increasing the federal contribution to offshore wind farms. I would have expected all my colleagues to question you on this, but apparently it is just Mr Ravyts and myself. When you took office, as the Federal Minister of Energy, you promised that the energy bill would fall. Now the opposite is happening. The N-VA, by the mouth of Flemish Minister for Energy Zuhal Demir, attacked you very hypocritically in the newspapers. The increase in the energy bill was already decided and approved by the N-VA in the previous legislature. Moreover, that party does nothing at Flemish level to reduce the energy bill and drastically reform it. Also Open Vld and CD&V leave to do something about that. In last week's newspapers we could therefore see a flat political jousting on the hood of ordinary people. You defended yourself, quite rightly, by replicating that with the increase the policy of the previous government was simply implemented. In my opinion, however, that is not a justification either. Why are you, as Minister of Energy in a new government, obliged to continue your predecessor's policy blindly? You do not hesitate to stress that the new government has a clear vision, that it is done with the investment insecurity of the past few decades and that you are only looking forward. Then why do you decide, when it comes to the energy bill, to implement the policy of the previous government without delay? I can only conclude that you agree with the previous decision. If you hadn't, you wouldn't have confirmed that decision unless you contradict me now. My questions are therefore obvious. Why did you approve the raise? This is contrary to previous promises and to the coalition agreement. Will you reverse that decision? When will you then ensure that the energy bill falls and does not rise?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u133	First of all, I would like to mention the i: there is no secret increase in the energy bill. The payment mechanism has been the same for years and remains in use. By the way, it's two things one. We have just started the session at 9 a.m. with questions about solar panels, in one question A and in the other question B. That is so far, but what is true is that it is about the public's confidence in the regulation. That is the main reason why we do not want to undo things with a drawing of pens. I won't violate trust. We spoke earlier about the damaged trust. So I won't reverse the decision. As far as the substance of the questions is concerned, Mr Ravyts, first of all, I do not want to put any words in your mouth. I don't want to be steering in my reply either. May I point out that the previous government has quoted Mr Philippe De Backer, and I will repeat his quote, "as a result of this price, you have achieved an annual savings of EUR 11 on the consumer's electricity bill" and have not failed to translate the declining costs of wind energy at sea into the subsidy mechanism? That saving has been achieved. That remains a fact. The three wind farms added in 2020 were cheaper. It's about Northwester 2, Mermaid and Seastar. They receive effectively less aid than initially envisaged. At the same time, all parks have been put into operation for the first time, which explains the increase. It concerns an increase of EUR 9.0141 per megawatt hour in 2020 to EUR 11.6852 per megawatt hour in 2021, which is an increase of rounded 2.6 euro per megawatt hour, resulting from the full availability of the first offshore zone with 2.2 gigawatt for the first year and the decrease in net reduced energy. Secondly, I can add that it is my ambition as well as that of the North Sea Minister, and we are both competent to continue to translate the falling costs of offshore wind energy into the subsidy mechanism, in particular for the second offshore zone. If we can do it without subsidies, we will. With regard to the reduction in energy bills, which has already been discussed in detail in numerous meetings, I would refer to my previous replies in this respect. We will also discuss it in detail this afternoon.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u134	Minister, I have quoted Mr De Backer correctly and you have repeated it again: the cost of and support for the three most recent parks were indeed lower. If a simple citizen reads in the newspaper about an increase of 2.6 euros to a rate of 11.6 euros, compared to the statements on the savings of 11 euros, that does not seem intellectually fair. Our group is very keen not to grant subsidies for the second offshore package. I hope you will succeed in this with Minister Van Quickenborne. If this does not happen, we will not hesitate to give the necessary critical consideration to the people.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u135	I am disappointed, Madam Secretary, that you will not reverse the measure and that the invoice will increase. You answer that this is not done secretly, but automatically. As far as I'm concerned, that's basically the same thing. The French-speaking press did not pay attention to it and if it had not appeared in the Dutch-speaking press, the citizens would not have known. You talk about restoring confidence over and over again, but I would like to point out to you that if you think that is important, then you will keep your promises. Maybe it's gonna take a little more time. As long as people see their invoices rise, I do not think you will restore confidence in your policies, in the government and in politics in general. Another problem is that support for green electricity and thus for the energy transition is still financed through the energy bill instead of through public investment. This, too, undermines support for energy transition and green electricity. As far as the rest is concerned, we will probably discuss it this afternoon. You did not answer my question when the energy bill will finally fall again. You yourself have said on several occasions that it is more like a tax bill at the moment. Two thirds of the invoice consists of levies and taxes. However, it is not up to the Flemish government, with the N-VA, Open Vld and CD&V, to give you lessons, because most indirect taxes still come from the Regions. Of course, we also want you to keep your promise or that of the government and effectively reduce the invoice.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u136	Question from Kim Buyst to Tinne Van der Straeten (Energy) on "The need for additional security of Belgian nuclear sites" (55013874C) Question from Kim Buyst to Tinne Van der Straeten (Energy) on "The need for greater security of Belgian nuclear sites" (55013874C)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u137	Madam Minister, I am a little surprised that I am the only one asking a question on this subject. On Friday we were told by the press that the nuclear institutions I have just mentioned, the SCK in Mol and the IRE in Fleurus, should be better protected against terrorism, theft of nuclear waste and earthquakes. The federal government will release 78 million for that. Don't get me wrong, I am very glad that attention is paid to the security of these institutions, including in the Kempen. In the end, this is still a science with which we have to deal with the utmost caution. At the same time, the message also raised a number of questions, which I would like to put to you. Could you give me a little more explanation? What exactly are we talking about here? What's the timing? What are the next steps? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u138	Mrs Buyst, you pointed out in your reply to your previous question that the SKC and IRE are of global importance for the production of a number of important medical radioisotopes. Furthermore, the SCK also carries out irradiation of materials for various applications, such as the doping of high-power semiconductors, for example for use in wind turbines. These activities must, of course, be subject to high safety standards, given their nature. That is why high security requirements apply. These are imposed, among other things, by the FANC. Those requirements are the result of the continuous evolution of safety requirements for nuclear installations and the management of plant ageing. The higher safety requirements themselves derive from various international conventions, such as the Convention on the Physical Protection of Nuclear Material and Nuclear Plants of 3 March 1980 and the Convention on Nuclear Safety of 17 June 1994. The files were discussed last week in the Council of Ministers and therefore implement these security and security requirements. For the SCK, these are both investments in security, including a new secure access building, and the ongoing costs of surveillance. These costs amount to around EUR 50 million over the period 2020-2021/2021-2026. For the IRE, these are investments in safety, including improved protection against earthquakes, a new storage vessel for liquid radioactive waste and the replacement of automatic fire detection systems. These projects will be implemented in the period 2021-2026. For this purpose, a budget of 23 million euros is requested by the federal state. The next step in the dossier is that both dossiers are submitted in the framework of budgetary control 2021. After the budgetary conclave, the funds may or may not be allocated to both projects.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic368x.u139	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answers. It is clear where this EUR 78 million comes from and what that money will be used for. The risk of nuclear energy to our society does indeed require additional security investments and you have appointed where the grid comes from. Again, it's a good thing we're getting these investments. Since a nuclear power plant is almost in my backyard, I am very glad that attention is paid to it. However, I would also like to say here that I think it is a shame that such resources cannot be used for sustainable alternatives. Some people continue to think that nuclear energy would be a cheap form of energy, but the costs that are now being mentioned should actually be added. These costs are often excluded, but I think it is important that attention be paid to them. If we are going to make the cost of nuclear energy, such costs must be included. That is why we need to rethink the transition to really cheap and truly renewable energy.
