ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic518x.u1	This is obviously an important issue in view of the number of speakers on this issue this afternoon, which affects us all in what is most fundamental for us, the right to respect and freedom for everyone, the fight against racism and xenophobia. To put things in context, this Monday, June 14, the press revealed the dramatic story of this young girl in Ninove. On Friday 11 June, while closing the store, this 19-year-old girl was reportedly insulted and then hit by a driver in the parking lot near the store because she was wearing a veil. It is only on Saturday morning that she goes to the Ninove police station accompanied by her father. She denounces the failure of the local Ninove police to take charge of the incident. According to his testimony, the police didn't want to hear anything. They replied that there was a need for a medical certificate, replying to the victim that they could not do anything on this file. If the medical evidence is indeed important for the continuation of the case, nothing obviously prevented the police from at least recording the complaint and collecting the first descriptions and other information. Subsequently, one of the police officers replied that it was necessary to speak in Dutch, which the victim was doing since she was bilingual. It is finally at the Laeken police station in Brussels that the victim can be heard and file a complaint on Saturday early in the afternoon. In addition to the scandalous nature of the aggression to which she was subjected and the difficulty of having to lodge a complaint for particularly ignoble facts, it is obviously extremely complicated for this young girl to be received under such conditions, asking herself basically whether she would be able to be heard in her very legitimate anger and distress. Did you have the opportunity to have these facts verified? Why, in our time, does a local police force still allow itself not to register a complaint in a police station, while the victim makes the move to come and tell particularly serious facts? What follow-up can you give? Have you condemned these practices if they are proven? Is an investigation under way? You will probably answer that this is the local police that is not under your direct supervision. I would like to know whether, within the framework of the integrated police force of course, you have contacted the authorities of the police zone to see what follow-up can be given and how these acts, which are, I would remind you, heinous, can be effectively punished in an exemplary manner.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic518x.u2	Madam Minister, on June 11, a young woman was the victim of a racist attack, but in addition, of an attempted murder with probably racist motives. Not only is the violence she suffered and the attempt at racist murder intolerable, but it seems that the story did not stop there because, having gone to the Ninove police station, this woman was simply denied access to the police station and to the registration of her complaint. I say this clearly and unambiguously: if these facts are proven, they are unspeakable and intolerable and they must be punished. What we are asking, all of us, is what every citizen is asking and what we are entitled to expect from our police services is relief and assistance and their exemplaryness. This refusal to register a complaint is to add institutional violence to the violence that the victim has suffered. Unfortunately, this is not an isolated fact. It has already been seen and heard: whether it is racist violence, homophobic violence, sexual violence, it is not the first time that we have stories in which we are told that there is no registration of the complaint or that there is no reception of the complainant in optimal conditions at police stations. This only reinforces mistrust of our police forces while they are there to protect us – trust should prevail between citizens and the police force. Minister, have you been officially aware of these facts? What steps have been taken as a result of this? What instructions were issued immediately to put an end to the practice of some police officers refusing to register complaints? How is this practice measured and sanctioned? Is an investigation under way or has it been ordered to shed light on this case, either with the police zone or with the P Committee? If so, were disciplinary measures initiated or could they be taken? Finally, what means are being deployed both at the level of the internal inspection services and at the regulatory level to identify and combat this phenomenon? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic518x.u3	Minister Nisrine, a 19-year-old Brussels girl is a cashier in a department store in Ninove. Last Friday, she arrives a little in advance and sits on a stool located on the parking lot to wait for the opening. A man stops his vehicle in front of her and insults her, ordering her to remove her veil. Nisrine tries to ignore her, but the man spits in her face. As she tries to leave the place, the individual rushes her vehicle to the young woman. The next day, Nisrine went to the Ninove police station. She says she was treated there "as shit" by the police officers who refused to register her complaint, claiming they needed a medical certificate. However, it is absolutely not necessary to file a complaint. The police also asked her to come back with someone who spoke Dutch, while she was talking to him. Finally, the young woman and her father will be listened to by the Laeken police station, where the police will agree to take her complaint. Nisrine clearly blames his aggression on the ambient climate in relation to the debate on the wearing of the veil in the administrations. I relay his opinion. This is where the instrumentalization of such debates that divide society leads. Minister, what is your reaction to these facts? How do you explain that the Ninove police station refused to receive a complaint of attempted murder in a racist context? Has an investigation been initiated in this regard? Were the police officers concerned punished? Has the perpetrator of this attempted murder been identified?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic518x.u4	Minister, I think my colleagues have already reported on the situation in relation to the various events that Nisrine has experienced. Indeed, and I agree with Mrs Matz on this point, it is very interesting and important to see that many people are asking this question. I regret that others have not put it because such serious facts must lead to answers. I will share with you, in my reply, the concerns that all this raises. However, I would like to go back to one aspect of this story which, in my view, illustrates the failure of some police officers to carry out their duties. These shortcomings have been reported for a very long time, not only by many citizens, but also by associations and by reports of Committee P. In general and beyond this aspect, what was your reaction to this testimony? Do you think that a mistake was committed by the Ninove police officers? Will you ask for an internal investigation? Are sanctions possible? Do you confirm that it is not necessary to produce a medical certificate immediately at the time of filing a complaint of physical assault? Do you consider it necessary to clarify the instructions to harmonize and improve the services provided, wherever a person wishes to file a complaint? Have any complaints to Committee P for failure to perform certain tasks and/or acts of racism ever targeted the Ninove police? If so, how many in the last five years? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic518x.u5	Minister, my colleagues have already described and recalled the events. I won't come back. They are abject and reprehensible, regardless of the context, media and political debates. It has been understood here that one of the most disturbing aspects is that no complaint could be lodged with the Ninove police station, forcing Nisrine and her father to go to the Laeken police station where the complaint could finally be filed. We thank the local police officers for that, even if they're doing their job. Minister, was an investigation initiated on the spot to identify the persons at the Ninove police station who were responsible for not registering the complaint? Do you intend to impose sanctions on them? If the wrong intentions of the police officers who received Nisrine are not proven, how can they explain that they do not know that medical certification is not at all a necessary prerequisite for filing a complaint. Half of the complaints filed with Committee P in 2020 related to non-performance or misperformance of duties by police officers. Thus, it would appear that the precise stage of filing a complaint is more conducive to arbitrary decision-making. What steps are you planning to take to better control this crucial stage of the judicial process? How do you explain that police refuse to take care of a visibly injured person who claims to have been intentionally overthrown on racist grounds on the pretext that she would not speak Dutch? Is this practice widespread? Do you have specific figures regarding language discrimination in the police? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic518x.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I was shocked by the report that a cashier in Ninove was molested, spat and finally hit in the parking lot of her workshop, all because she was wearing a headscarf. That's an attack on someone's physical integrity. As far as I am concerned, it proves that hate speech is not always limited to words, but sometimes also leads to physical violence. Similar scenes took place in Germany in the winter of 2019 and compelling measures were taken to combat hate speech. I think it's important to do the same here. As if the attack itself was not bad enough, it appears that the complaint lodged with the police was not taken seriously. The lady in question was sent in the reeds with a rug. The police respond that they only work by appointment, but I do not think that victims of physical violence can be dismissed. Would you confirm those facts, Madam Secretary? If so, do you not think that every victim of physical violence should be heard immediately when they apply to the police? I do not think that such a person can be sent away with the message to come back later and bring evidence. It seems to me just as essential that people in such a situation should be warmly welcomed, in any police area. That would also increase confidence in the police. In this case it was racism, but sometimes it is victims of sexual violence. As far as I am concerned, there can never be any reason to keep victims waiting or making them come back. To what extent is the case being further investigated? What action is being taken on it? How will it be ensured in the future that victims of physical violence who lodge complaints are immediately received, heard and properly supervised?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic518x.u7	Madam Minister, at the beginning of the week the facts raised were mainly discussed in the French-speaking press. Since yesterday there has been a report in the Flemish press. There is also great indignation on the Flemish side. In the meantime, I've heard the reaction of the Chief Constable and the Mayor of Ninove. Ninove police excel in looking for excuses instead of apologizing to the victim. She's trying to blame the victim for what she calls a misunderstanding because, among other things, the victim didn't go to the police until the day after the facts. But there's a big under-reporting of facts. Many people experience thresholds to report violence, including sexual violence, as my colleague pointed out. They're still in too much shock and that's why they don't go to the police until later. In such serious facts, the victim must be heard immediately and there should even be victim guidance. Ninove P.D. says she's working by appointment because of the coronapandemic. It is clear, however, that this is not about, for example, a bicycle theft, in which one can ask someone to come back by appointment the next day. These are very serious facts in this case, as my fellow Members have already outlined. The attitude of the Ninove police, which amazes me greatly, raises the question of whether she lives on an island. There is an acute threat of extreme right-wing violence. We have already discussed this in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. Some extreme right-wing groups and individuals do not shy away from violence. The security and intelligence services have reported extensively on this. It was one of the main topics in the popular media over the past few weeks. Recently we had the debate on the headscarf. Groenpolitica Hafsa El-Bazioui has received death threats after she had spoken in The Seventh Day about wearing a headscarf in public functions. She got death threats because she's wearing a headscarf. That happened last week and has been extensively in the news on Wednesday 9 June. Two days later, on Friday, there was the incident in Ninove and the woman reported it. I find it incomprehensible that no alarm bells go off with the Ninove police. The police are defending themselves by saying she didn't know how serious it was. If the victim is not given the opportunity to do her story, then of course one does not know how serious it is. Reference is also made to language laws. Sorry, that just makes things worse in my eyes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic518x.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, let me strongly condemn the acts to which this young woman has been subjected. It is clear that they have no place in our society and that we must do everything we can to prevent them from happening again. With regard to the events at the police station in the Ninove police zone, I immediately contacted the head of the corps. After reading the press article, he immediately investigated what had happened this weekend. In this internal investigation, the head of the corps was able to rely on the information sheet drawn up by the employees at the time of the reception of the woman, in accordance with the guidelines. The collaborators in question were also heard on the facts, in order to have all the information available. The investigation revealed that on Saturday, the day after the incident, a woman and a man came to the reception of the Ninove police station. As they spoke in French, the host staff also spoke to them in the same language. During this first contact, the collaborators were unable to determine the seriousness of the facts as described in the press. I want to point out that access to the police station was not denied, as some have suggested, and that it is no more true that no history could be told during this first reception at the police station. At no time during this first reception was it mentioned that a vehicle would have hit the young woman at the event itself. Secondly, the police officer at the reception felt that there was no urgency and that the quality of the treatment of the victim and the person reporting to the police station was more important. It is true that it is a judgment. It was this judgment that was made on the basis of the elements that had been reported. Mrs Vanrobaeys and Mrs Platteau, I would also like to stress that an assessment and assessment was made on the basis of the facts that were told at the time and the need for assistance that was expressed. At that time, there was no perception of an urgent need and therefore a thorough examination of the case was preferred. That is why, at the first reception, it was proposed that a follow-up be made so that the necessary time could be allowed to interrogate the persons and to draw up an in-depth report. Then, the young woman was so unhappy that she ended up leaving the police station without revealing her identity, mentioning that she had not been helped, and that she would go to her place of residence in Brussels to file a complaint. On the basis of the internal investigation, the head of the corps felt that the two parties wanted to act in good faith, and with the best intentions, but that a regrettable misunderstanding had occurred. However, he wants to invite the young woman to an interview in her presence with the host staff in order to clarify certain things. The person concerned is of course free to lodge an official complaint concerning his experience with the Ninove police zone without having had an interview, or if a possible interview proves insufficient. It goes without saying that we will follow up on the dossier and we will look at how things are going on on the ground. Mr Moutquin, Mr De Smet, it is true that there is no legal obligation to attach a medical certificate to the original minutes. However, since experience has shown that it is preferable to establish the lesions as quickly as possible in order to avoid discussion of the causal link, it is recommended that the lesions be detected by a doctor so that the medical certificate can be added to the initial report and the accompanying hearing. I conclude by recalling that it is not acceptable to advocate service neutrality while treating people in a disrespectful manner. That must be clear to everyone. This should apply to all public services, including the police.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic518x.u9	Minister, thank you for your answers. You provide elements that you were given at Ninove. But the justifications given at Ninove are totally unacceptable to me! Why was the complaint not allowed right away? Although the fact of being overthrown was not mentioned during this first interview, it was very clear that it was something of a racist nature. I do not understand why in some police stations and in some police stations, the play does not fall directly by thinking that it is a priority issue given the context in which we operate. I have no voice in listening to your answer, which is just the transmission of what you have been told in Ninove. Ninove did not consider this important and that this is a regrettable misunderstanding. I think this is much more than a regrettable misunderstanding. As in all cases, it is not a matter of throwing reproach at all police officers. I say it every time. We have to get up and defend them as long as we can. But by not sanctioning and by not pointing out that it does not work when facts are revealed, one does indeed cast reproach on all the police officers who, for the most part, act properly. Of course the facts are reprehensible here, but there is more to it than the facts. We're told we didn't consider it urgent. Not to be trained in the fact that all sexual violence, all racist violence are a priority in a society where the dignity of everyone is important, I do not understand how this has not yet been systematically instilled in all police officers. The way in which Ninove responded to your inquiry is regrettable. I hope that the repair maintenance can take place in conditions of respect for everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic518x.u10	Madam Minister, thank you. I'm sorry, I learned bad news. I am rather stunned by the answer given to us. I hear you condemn what happened and I salute him. On the other hand, with regard to the attitude of the Ninove police, it's not right. The question of language cannot be an obstacle, a priori if this lady was bilingual. It cannot be an obstacle because we are not in Ninove in Flanders. We are in Ninove in Flanders, Belgium, Europe and it could pass through Ninove people who do not speak French or Dutch. If people who visit the city speak Chinese, Urdu or some other language, they must be able to be welcomed. I think we can get a translator in a police station. The same applies to the medical question. When visiting a police station, a doctor may be required if it is believed that there is no room, etc. These allegations, these requests, these attempts at justification are absolutely unqualified. They are self-inflicted to violence and add to the violence that has been suffered. We cannot limit ourselves to this because these are not justifications. It's not an apology. This shows, on the other hand, more a malfunction than an error. And when one is faced with a malfunction in relation to an error, one must be able to become aware of it independently of the facts. I'm not saying that this police lady wanted to do wrong or do right. Perhaps she was willing to do well, but perhaps there is an attitude and a process that, at that time, are to be revisited – we must be able to say it – and that there are things to be changed. We really need to ask ourselves questions about how the file was managed. Colleagues, as I told you, I have learned bad news. For those who do not know, our comrade and colleague, Marc Goblet, died.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic518x.u11	I'm sorry for your loss.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic518x.u12	I also heard the news during your response, minister. I'm in the shock of this sad news. What is sad too is your answer. I have the impression that the more your mandate moves forward, the more we step back from the declarations and objectives that were put forward at the beginning of the legislature. We have almost one incident a week, whether it is violence, racism or sexism in the police. All you can say is a simple conviction. Worse still, you're taking back almost word for word the justification that's given by the Ninove police force. This means that you take the position of one of the parties as a ministerial response. I recall that in this response given by the Ninove police, it is stated that the complainant had not indicated that she had been hit by a car. I wonder why we asked for a medical certificate, if they didn't have that information. In any case, Madam Minister, if you want to fight police violence, racism, sexism, that is not the way it is! We have to take things with the body. In a time when an extreme right-wing fugitive is in nature, we do not know where we are witnessing a racist attack on a young worker in Ninove. And you do not take any concrete action against these police officers, whether through investigations, sanctions or measures to be put in place on the issue of complaints. You're not presenting anything to us at all. Maybe you think what happened isn't a big deal. I'll tell you again, Madam Minister. What happened is very serious. And as long as you take things lightly, the situation will get worse and worse. At some point, either you play your part, or you need something more to act on. But what? Is that the fight against racism and sexism announced by Vivaldi? Is that how you represent her? This is completely inadequate, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic518x.u13	Mr President, first of all I would like to express my sincere condolences on behalf of my group to the Socialist Group and to all those who are in the trade union struggle and who were around Mr Goblet. Minister, you have given us a detailed answer. You take back the information you are given and it is worrying if the investigation is based solely on what was written in a fact sheet. There is no connection between what is said and what the complainant states, particularly in relation to language, and the fact that the various events she experienced could not be understood. Given the bilingual nature of the victim, it seems to me quite surprising. Of course, what is called an emergency or non-emergency judgment in the police stations must be harmonized. Even if there was no attempted murder, a person came to report a racist assault. In the current context, it would be interesting to send a directive or a message to the various police stations in that country. It's even a priority. As for the medical certificate, it is recommended; therefore, it is not mandatory, contrary to what has been said. It's good you called him back. You have to call a cat a cat. I'm not accusing police officers of racism. I do not accuse the police in general of racism superior to that of society, but I think it is time to name certain things. There have been many worrying developments in recent months. We've got to get to it. Projects that had been put in place with Unia were stopped. Initiatives such as a much more structural and systemic reflection on racism within the police must be resumed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic518x.u14	Mr President, I would also like to be very brief in my reply. I think it is indeed important for the victim concerned and for all future victims that the Ninove Corps is not looking for excuses, but apologizing. Apart from what exactly happened, I think it would be a very important signal to restore confidence. Then I would also like to join what has already been said here. The assessment itself needs to be carefully reviewed. When a victim of a racist incident comes forward, or in the case of intra-family or sexual violence, the assessment must be made in a proper manner. That is certainly not a reproach to the agents involved, but the mechanism itself can be more structured and more compelling, so that we avoid such situations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic518x.u15	Madam Secretary, we're essentially getting the same story from you as the story we've been able to read from the Chief Constable. So I'm not entirely reassured after all. You condemn the facts that happened in the supermarket parking lot. Racism and racist violence are unacceptable, you say. I assume that's what we all think. However, I would have liked to hear you say that racism in the police is also unacceptable. In your reply and also in the response of the Chief Constable, I miss a critical attitude of the police. Couldn't this have been handled differently? I also said that there should be no excuses. Apologize is in order here anyway. The fact-based assessment stated that at that time there was no perception of an urgent need and a thorough treatment with a follow-up appointment. That's just the problem. Just in a week in which women with headscarfs get death threats, it is not at all estimated that there can be serious facts here when a woman presents herself. That raises a lot of questions. It didn't happen to the victim either that a follow-up meeting would be made. She has to go to another police area where she could hear. Hopefully this will be thoroughly investigated and the police will also look critically at their own functioning. We expect much from the National Security Plan, we expect racism and racist violence to be a priority. Those must not remain words, but must become real deeds. I'm counting on you for that, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic518x.u16	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Rigot's 55018072C was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic518x.u17	Mr President, I too would like to express my deepest condolences to Mr Goblet's family and to the entire group. As far as Mrs Bury's question is concerned, the Home Office has instruments and has set up workshops to limit cross-border behaviour. For example, a reading grid for ethical behavior and a different schedule for integrating inclusive behavior are used. The purpose of the FPS Home Affairs is therefore clear to pursue a policy that is purposely focused on learning and adopting behaviors that make it possible to optimize interpersonal relationships. Today, the FPS does not have an instrument that specifically relates to sexual cross-border behaviour in the workplace, but of course it is part of the tools that are being used today. In any case, the instrument is interesting and will also be further studied. The FOD is certainly open to any tool that helps to prevent inappropriate behaviour in the workplace. After all, the FPS is aware that such behavior can be undetected, tolerated or ignored if there is no clear framework for its follow-up. The code on well-being at work already provides for a register of the facts to be kept by the prevention advisers who are, of course, at their disposal, also for this type of matter, as well as by those entrusted with the task. The register shall contain the statements of workers who are victims of violence, moral or sexually unwanted behaviour on the workplace of persons internally or externally to the organisation, as well as a description of the facts when they would occur. We will further study this and integrate it into the existing grids. These tools and any future instruments that will be available will be consulted with all welfare actors within the Home Office. You also asked a number of more factual questions. I propose that we also ask a written question about this so that we have sufficient time to answer you in detail.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic518x.u18	Thank you for your reply, Madam Secretary. I'll list some cases in writing. I am very pleased that you will be working on this tool, just as your Flemish colleague Beke mentioned. The Minister of Justice answered the question last week. He was more flou in his response to look at that in the Justice Department, but your answer has made me very happy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic518x.u19	I would also like to express my condolences for the death of Marc Goblet, not only to his political family, but also to his family and friends. The question therefore relates to the police's databases. In its 2020 Activity Report, the Police Information Review Body (PIB) noted that approximately 75% of the files processed in 2020 resulted in either archiving or full or partial erasure of police records in the General National Data Bank (NGB), which should have been processed prior to these steps. According to the COC, in three out of four cases studied, the information in the BNG was not or was not expected to be included. This is, of course, a breach of the law, since the data must be archived and therefore not searchable, except for example in the context of a judicial investigation, within a period of one year for offences, ten years for offences and thirty years for offences. These shortcomings can have serious consequences. It turns out that a large number of people who come into contact with the COC feel injured in the search for a job, for example in the public service. The situation seems critical and one can expect the worst for the year 2021. Taking into account the number of offences including "covid", thousands of people have been identified, offences for which the prosecution has closed the files without further action due to lack of evidence, but for the time being the data are entered in the BNG. Minister, do you confirm this situation? Why is there no operational archiving system? What do you intend to do to bring the BNG into compliance with the law?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic518x.u20	Minister, the General National Bank is the largest database of Belgian law enforcement agencies. According to a recent media survey by Médor, it contains data on some three million Kingdom citizens, a figure that has continued to grow in recent years. The BNG has recently been the subject of a report by the Police Information Review Body which reveals that, in more than three out of four cases, the data contained therein are not supposed to be included. According to Frank Schuermans, an advisor to the COC, this is a breach of the law, which stipulates that the data must be archived, which limits their conditions of consultation at the end of certain deadlines: one year for contraventions, ten years for offences and thirty years for crimes. However, there is currently no archiving system, even though this has been requested for years by the COC. This situation can be damaging, for example, for those applying for employment in the public service requiring security clearance. Some candidates were thus denied access to the Court for facts dating back to some fifteen years. This is therefore proof that despite the promises of the technique (such as the anonymization, deletion and archiving of the data), once these are recorded, the system does not offer any guarantee that they will ever disappear. That is why strict compliance with data protection rules is essential to citizens' right to privacy. I would therefore like to know, Madam Minister, whether you can assure us that all the data that must be legally archived will now be archived. In what time frame? What initiatives will you take so that this cannot happen again in the future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic518x.u21	Mr President, Madam Minister, the government agreement provides, as you have pointed out recently, for the principle of a security carrefour bank for the sharing of information in an integrated and secure manner. This is a sensitive project, particularly with regard to the protection of the privacy of our citizens and which will, I am sure you will be attentive to it, call for clear guidelines. Among these beacons, the archiving capacity of and control over existing databases, i.e. also the ability to keep these databases up-to-date on the quality of the information they contain, are essential elements. However, it is up to me, like other colleagues, that the police information monitoring body finds that the main police database, the BNG, is precisely missing on this point and would contain obsolete information, entries for people who have nothing to do with it, etc., because of a lack of proper archiving. Minister, is that the case? If so, what measures are being taken to address them?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic518x.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in its report, the COC rightly recalls the need to archive the data of the BNG by applying the provisions laid down in the Law on the Police Function. I can inform you that the archiving system has been developed and the planned rules have been presented to the COC in order to ensure that the implementation corresponded to the legal provisions. It was a favourable opinion that emerged. Before starting the complete archiving of the data, it was appropriate to verify that, despite the fine rules implemented, there was no risk of archiving old data but for which the judicial authorities continue to prescribe investigative duties. This would be contrary to the requirements of Article 44/9, § 2 of the Law on the Police Function and would also be extremely damaging to such investigations. This subject does not allow us to think in a purely theoretical way. This is why there is a consultation with the judicial authorities, which must inform the police of investigations that are ongoing for old facts and which prevent the archiving of data related to such investigations. Judicial districts are currently transmitting information on such investigations to a central point within the justice system. According to the timing established on 17 May 2021, they will be transmitted in the course of June to the police after a quality and fitness check for further exploitation. On the basis of this information, the police will conduct the verifications in the BNG and ensure that the data relating to the investigations in question will not be archived. This will require time depending on the number of surveys involved and their distribution between the boroughs and the resources available. Once these steps are completed, the entire mechanism of archiving will be activated. The archiving of BNG's data is a project that has my full attention and that of the authorities and police services concerned, each convinced that the situation described by the COC in its annual report must be brought to an end. Normally, any owner of information, including justice, must be able to automatically make changes to databases hosted by the police. Applications of external partners, including justice, will be developed accordingly in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic518x.u23	Madam Minister, thank you for that clarification. I very much hope that this archive will be operational as soon as possible in order to put an end to this situation of lawlessness and to the various elements that the COC raises in its report. It is obvious (and you know it very well through the various files you are dealing with), that the issue of data, mainly in this pandemic period, is a crucial issue for our citizens and that it is important that it be dealt with in the proper way, not only to ensure the effectiveness of a system, but also to safeguard the rights of everyone. It is essential that you implement this - even if I hear your will and the first actions taken - so that it can be operational. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic518x.u24	Mr President, I listened carefully to the minister's response and I hope that it will be put in place quickly. We will follow the file to ensure that this will be the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic518x.u25	Madam Minister, thank you for your clarification. It is also hoped that this will be implemented quickly. I will not fail to follow this file.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic518x.u26	Mr President, Madam Minister, in 2013, the Interfederal Action Plan against Homophobic and Transphobic Violence was in place in our country. The plan included six priorities: knowledge development, improved legislation, improved prevention, awareness-raising, victim assistance, follow-up and prosecution. In 2018, the Interfederal Action Plan against Discrimination and Violence against LGBTI People was launched, which mentioned a series of objectives and actions, particularly within the police. Minister, has an evaluation of these plans been completed? Has there been any improvement in your skills? On 17 May 2021, International Day against Homophobia and Transphobia, the Director of the Inter-Federal Centre for Equal Opportunities (UNIA) put forward the need for "an ambitious new action plan to combat homophobia and transphobia". Can we have you back on this? The director of UNIA also pointed out that "many incidents of homophobia and violence against homosexuals are not reported and recorded". Can you inform us of the ongoing cooperation between our police services and LGBTI associations, as well as between the police and UNIA, in the reporting and handling of such incidents?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic518x.u27	Collègue Senesael, the fight against hate and discrimination crimes has been a priority for the integrated police in recent years, as evidenced by its integration into the National Security Plan 2016-2020 and related initiatives. The awareness-raising of police members integrated into the theme, the integration of the theme into basic training and ongoing training, the participation of police representatives in working groups and related working groups "registration of hate and discrimination offences" are examples, to name but a few. These actions and initiatives are of course analysed and, where appropriate, adapted to operational needs on the ground and to current events. Compared to 2013, there has been a clear improvement in knowledge of hate and discrimination offences and their approach within the integrated police force. With regard to hate crimes, including homophobia, they are dealt with in accordance with the guidelines of Circular COL13 of 2013 on discrimination and hate crimes. In this context, reference police officers have been appointed and trained by Unia in the front line services of the integrated police force. They are referents for the dissemination of information within their units and knowledge in these matters. In addition, they serve as a privileged point of contact with the judge of reference at the public prosecutor's office. As part of the training of reference officials, the importance of contacts with LGBTQI+ associations in the fight against homophobia and transphobia is stressed. Good practices are exchanged both during training through Unia and subsequently between the reference officials. This is perfectly in line with the idea of a community-oriented police force. It goes without saying that the federal police are ready to contribute in areas of their responsibility if a new action plan against homophobia and transphobia is developed. With regard to the registration of hate and discrimination offences, the Sub-Working Group Registration of the 2013 COL13 Working Group, with the participation of several representatives of the integrated police, is examining several points to improve in order to optimize the registration and prosecution of such acts.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic518x.u28	Minister, thank you for the quality of your answer. I would also like to congratulate your services on the follow-up to this issue and the files entrusted to them. In this way, we will be able to move forward with UNIA and LGBTQI+ associations so that the priorities set out in the Inter-federal Action Plan can be honoured. Finally, I thank you for your determination in this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic518x.u29	Mr President, Madam Minister, when I asked you this question a few months ago, you said that you did not yet have exact figures. So I'll come back and ask you today, hoping to get answers. As part of Minister Jan Jambon's policy, the federal police had decided to purchase 49 new Mercedes armored limousines for 25 million euros from a Belgian firm. The costs would be spread over seven years. According to the supplier, seven limousines will be delivered annually to special units and to the Directorate of Protection (DAP) to transport foreign heads of state and other personalities. How many cars have they already been delivered? How many cars still have to be delivered? Of the EUR 25 million, what amounts have they already been paid and how much remains to be paid? Is it possible to cancel this purchase? Will this government deploy the entire order? What budget is the government planning for this year? Why does the federal police need 49 luxury armoured cars? Why is a much smaller number not enough? In addition, were there not cheaper and equally safe models? Will cars already delivered be used daily? Do the police services notice in practice that an even greater number of cars are needed? Why do these cars have to be in the possession of the federal police and why can't they be rented when they are needed? When foreign heads of state use these cars, is there a memorandum of understanding under which they pay for their use? The police unions claimed in 2019 that the procurement procedure had not been followed. The unions would not have been informed and could not have provided a risk analysis or the approval of the Minister of Finance. Can you provide us with this risk analysis and the approval of the then Minister of Finance? Do you think that your predecessor, Minister Jambon and the Chief of Federal Police have followed all the procedures correctly during this purchase?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic518x.u30	Mr Boukili, I will complete the update that I gave you at the meeting on 3 February. Armored limousines are part of a public procurement. Four vehicles have already been delivered, fitted out and presented for technical inspection. Three vehicles will soon be delivered by the company in question and three more are still in production for delivery this year. Each vehicle costs just over 50,000 euros. No budget is provided for a new purchase under this contract. However, it is still possible to order other vehicles under the existing contract, but this is not currently foreseen. Despite the increase in the number of regular missions assigned to the Protection Directorate, there is currently no need for 49 such vehicles. The cost of an armoured vehicle is high due to the complexity of the shielding work per se, but also due to the high performance requirements. However, we must always respect the cost-quality balance of these means and always with the intention of guaranteeing the life and physical integrity of the persons transported. The DAP has a number of leasing vehicles. Generalizing the rental to the whole cart is a greater cost than having vehicles on own property. Similarly, to benefit from a lease only for events for which we need the vehicles does not allow to react to unannounced missions since it depends on an international supplier whose DAP is not the only customer. DAP vehicles are regularly used to transport foreign heads of State with accompanying devices. The cost of protecting foreign Heads of State and Government is borne by the host country. It is therefore free of charge for foreign countries. As regards the procurement procedure, it was approved in 2016 by the Council of Ministers. The comments of the trade unions to which you are referring relate to the three green lights procedure. Their interpretation in the handbook of senior officials of the Federal Police was not the same as that given by the social partners at the time of the drafting of this contract. Since then, a new procedure has been adopted unanimously in accordance with the requests of the Committee for Prevention and Protection at Work. For obvious security reasons, information on mission-specific risks and related equipment cannot be provided. The only concern related to this dossier, which has been reported to me, concerns the type approval necessary for these vehicles to be able to run on Belgian soil in full compliance. Steps have been taken to ensure that this problem does not recur.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic518x.u31	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer, which I give you is more complete than last time. I take it that you yourself said that forty-nine vehicles were a lot and that we didn't need that much. The question is whether you are going to keep the whole order, knowing that four vehicles have been delivered, that three are in the process of being delivered, and that three more will be delivered a little later in the year, making a total of ten cars. If forty-nine is too much, is there no way to cancel the contract? That was one of my questions, but I didn't hear you on that point. Would it not be more interesting and more profitable to rent this kind of car during the visit of Heads of State rather than to acquire it to use it only for that, when it costs us 25 million euros? In addition to that, Madam Minister, as we have seen in a previous debate, we need millions elsewhere: for police training, for raising wages, for improving working conditions. That's where it takes millions. Recently, we have mentioned a budget of €75 million to buy bullets. Today, it's 25 million euros to buy luxury armoured cars. This amounts to EUR 100 million and EUR 0 out of the EUR 100 million to improve police services. Are these the choices you make? At some point, we have to go back to reality. We have to get back to earth. The needs are much greater and it is not in the bling-bling that millions must be injected. There is a need to improve the ground conditions for citizens and police officers. That is what we need, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic518x.u32	Debates of the European Parliament 55018528C by Mr De Maegd, who is absent, is without object.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic518x.u33	Mr Cogolati, first of all, I would like to refer you to my answer to your question No 11929. Each operator is responsible for the safety of its nuclear reactors. Similarly, each national safety authority is responsible for the control of the nuclear sector in its own territory. As a Belgian security authority, therefore, AFCN is for our territory. In this context, it is therefore impossible to decide on a foreign situation. As a member of the European Nuclear Safety Regulators Group (ENSREG), which is an advisory body for the European Commission bringing together the regulators of each Member State, AFCN is kept regularly informed of the Belarusian situation in relation to the stress-related aspects of testing, the action plan and its assessments. The Agency wishes to express its support for the process followed by ENSREG in this matter. She is also confident in the quality of the analysis and work carried out by the international expert group on the aspects covered by stress tests. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic518x.u34	Minister, thank you for your answer. Nevertheless, it would seem wise and even necessary - given the risks to local and European nuclear safety - to show our support, through our nuclear regulator, to the European authorities who have already called for the suspension of the operation at this very high-risk nuclear power plant, located in Belarus, under the authoritarian regime of Lukashenko.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic518x.u35	"Madam Minister, it has been almost a month since Jürgen Conings was wanted, without success, by our police forces. The military is now also wanted internationally. The more the days pass, the more news is heard linking the person concerned to extreme right-wing groups such as Knight of Flanders, the far right of the Netherlands or the Flemish Legion, to which Conings would have given military training.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic518x.u36	- What is the current state of research?"
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic518x.u37	Mr President, the OCAM believes that the greatest current threat of violence comes from individuals who could use individual acts of violence inspired by ideology (so-called solitary actors). With regard to your questions about the current status of the judicial investigation or the search procedures to obtain better results, it should be noted that these are conducted under the direction of the designated investigating judge and the federal prosecutor's office. I am therefore not allowed to comment on this matter. With regard to the measures taken for the protection and well-being of police officers in the field on 19 May, we were suddenly confronted with an unplanned event that required the urgent organization of a large-scale search for a missing person. In this phase of crisis, the services of the coordinating director of the Limburg Federal Police have devoted the necessary attention, on the one hand, to the safety of deployed personnel, on the other hand, to its well-being. The coordinating director ensured that a meal ticket system was in place for staff. The Red Cross, the Federal Health Inspector and the Federal Police Logistics Service have all redoubled their efforts to provide support. After a few days during the management phase, a permanent command village was installed on a fixed post to pilot the teams in the field. Here again, due attention has been paid to safety and well-being. During this phase, a collaboration was initiated by civil protection in order to establish a permanent supply system within this command post. In the course of various unplanned research actions which are followed in the areas of the natural field concerned, there was always a supply for staff. A sanitary corner was installed in the command post. Given the multidisciplinary nature of the scheme, the facilities have served both police and military personnel. Finally, the services of the coordinating director of the Federal Police of Limburg have prepared a risk analysis of the type "well-being and safety at work". All aspects relating to the organisation of working time, safety, atmospheric conditions or psychosocial risks have been taken into account. All the necessary preventive measures have been implemented in the daily organizational structure. All security and welfare efforts were seen by the Federal Police Prevention Adviser for Limburg Province during his visit to the command post.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic518x.u38	Thank you for your answers, Minister. We will continue to follow this case with the hope that it will be resolved as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic518x.u39	Minister, what is the impact of the weather on the Tihange nuclear power plant? It is known to what extent the impact of the storms was particularly acute along the Meuse between Amay and Tihange. Furthermore, what is the potential impact of the nuclear power plant on the development of these thunderstorms and weather conditions?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic518x.u40	Dear colleague, the heavy rains of Friday, June 4, have had no impact on the operation of the units of the Tihange power plant, which have remained at 100% of their power. All safety equipment remained available. No significant events were reported to the AFCN. The response teams at the Tihange site, however, had to intervene in a few buildings at the site without any impact on safety. Water infiltration into the basement may occur within the administrative building. Within the technical buildings, in the water wells, an infiltration of water into an electronic box generated an untimely alarm. At the fire station in gallery G22, water infiltration on a steam pipe resulted in a vapour release into the gallery. Within the buildings housing the maintenance offices, there was a water infiltration. According to initial information and analysis, the design of the units responded correctly to these heavy rains. During the stress tests carried out in 2011 on our nuclear power plants, the topic of heavy rains was also studied. All studies, action plan and results are published and available on the AFCN website. Finally, with regard to evacuation, it is not unknown to you that if the RN 90 is flooded, an evacuation or access is always possible via the city of Huy. Firefighters in the Hemeco emergency zone did not receive any requests for intervention for the Tihange nuclear power plant following the storms of Friday, June 4.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic518x.u41	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic518x.u42	Madam Secretary, this question is about reporting a rape. During the corona crisis, the number of declarations fell even further, to 4 %, while in normal times it is 10 %, which is also terribly low. I'm not going to repeat the reasons why victims don't report, but I'm sure the threshold should be lowered. The threshold for declaration is still far too high. Our society can no longer accept this. The government feels the same way. You have provided a budget to increase the number of care centres from three to ten throughout the country. However, more is needed. I understand you're fond of that idea. On June 4, you stated that you want to investigate whether victims can also make an online report, which is not yet possible. For a number of other crimes, that is the case. In this way, victims should not take the step towards a police commissioner and perhaps more victims can be persuaded to take that step. What steps should be taken to enable this online declaration? Are you working on that yet? How will you ensure that this will not be very technical, but really accessible, tailored to the victims? You rightly indicated that there are also objections to an online declaration, such as the collection of evidence or the need for urgent assistance. This could be taken into account by an immediate follow-up after an online return. How do you see that? How am I supposed to see that in relation to those care centers? Our resolution on intra-family violence also calls for an online declaration to be made available. For what other problems do you think it could be useful? I come to my second question. In the recent resolution, adopted almost unanimously, on intra-family violence, in particular against women and children, we expressly ask the government to make the dark number on intra-family violence visible. The recent events in Ghent and Gavere once again show that everything related to personal integrity and the violation of it is still a major taboo. I would therefore like to refer to a passage in our resolution which indicates a concrete action point to make the dark number more visible. The existing process-verbals should be classified in a separate category to record intra-family violence and that registration aims to improve the follow-up for the competent authorities, but also to strengthen and specify the data collection for a smooth processing and reduction of the number of unidentified cases, i.e. that dark number. Have you already taken concrete action or are they coming? If so, which would they be?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic518x.u43	Mrs Jiroflée, in order to improve the registration of pvs of intra-family violence, the College of Attorneys-General, in cooperation with the integrated police, has drawn up a new circular. This concerns the introduction of a questionnaire, a risk assessment tool that police officers should systematically use in the field to better describe the facts of intra-family violence. This not only facilitates the judicial investigation, but also makes it possible to assign the specific fact to a specific category, so that the prevention of this type of fact can be analysed more purposefully. This tool will be rolled out in ISLP, the system that the police use to create pvs. From June onwards, a pop-up window will appear with reference to the correct form. By the end of 2021, the form will be fully integrated into ISLP. This will make registration more user-friendly. It will also allow the police to get a better picture of the problem, so that better follow-up and prevention can be achieved. For the online declaration of sexual offences, I have committed myself to extending the Police-on-web digital declaration platform to include a specific means of reporting sexual offences. The online declaration was already an objective that I agreed with all the actors and partners involved, such as Equal Opportunities, Justice and Police, within the framework of the National Action Plan Gender-related Violence. The National Security Plan will also refer to that objective. I recently instructed the integrated police to deal with this enlargement as a matter of priority, so that this possibility will quickly become available to the victims. After all, I agree with you that it is an option that we must be able to offer the victims in order to reduce the threshold to avoid secondary victimisation. Due to the covid crisis, a wider digital window has already been opened in Police-on-web. In this way, unnecessary physical contacts could be avoided, taking into account the coronavirus. Through this temporary covid solution, it is possible to report all crimes via the Police-on-web digital window. Those declarations are offered automatically and digitally for treatment to the police area where the facts took place. That does not alter the fact that a declaration in the Commissioner will always be possible. However, it is not just a question of digitisation and making an online platform available. The integrated police must, of course, be careful, as you rightly say, that the victim's trial is correct. For example, it is necessary to ensure that the declaration is easy and easily accessible, but that the right elements can be collected and that the victim is contacted in the appropriate manner and by the competent persons. Local police use very clear guidelines on the qualifications that police officers need to have in order to help the victims. These procedures should also be aligned with online returns. Furthermore, the College of Attorneys-General has also insisted that, given the sensitivity and the need for qualitative treatment, offences of violence against persons should be physically reported to the police. In this preparation, the integrated police will consider how to reconcile the concerns of the College of Attorneys General regarding the need for physical declaration and the need to be able to make easily accessible declarations online. It will always be important to guide victims in an online declaration and to direct them to emergency assistance whenever necessary. Today, too, there will be repeated reports that emergency aid is best sought if it is injured or if there are traces, for example. This process still needs to be refined so that, on the one hand, the combination of the online declaration and the physical declaration is as appropriate as possible to the needs of the victims and, on the other hand, it will continue to be possible to deal with legal proceedings by gathering sufficient evidence. For the time being, it is intended to allow the general digital window to continue until the declarations can be consolidated into a specific declaration form per type of fact. There is in principle no limitation on the number of facts that could be reported online. We believe that this will gradually become an increasingly used practice, both for the citizens and for the police forces in the first line. At your request on re-contact, I can say that in the case of a lot of online returns, the recipient of the declaration will contact the principal. That will be done before the minutes are dealt with. In the case of intra-family or sexual violence and crimes that are not formally provided for in the current covid counter, the local police will follow the guidelines of the College of Attorney General and of the Chief Constable to process the handling of the complaint. The processing of a complaint of this type of fact is therefore governed by directives of the Court of Justice. This is separate from the directive which lays down how to process declarations. At present, it guarantees that the declarations on weekdays are handled during working hours. The treatment is thus guaranteed no later than 72 hours after the declaration. This is also very clearly indicated to the victim making the report. In practice, processing will be faster and police zones will have autonomous powers to impose shorter internal deadlines.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic518x.u44	Thank you, Madam Secretary. You are reassuring me to a great extent. You're really working on it. A number of things will be changed. I would like to talk about two more elements. 72 hours after the police report, when it comes to a rape and the victim is not accompanied in the meantime, means a great chance of losing track. I would just like to point out that we need to be alert and take a look at that. I have not heard you mention a second aspect, namely the formation of police officers on the ground. I point that out because I was able to read again this morning in a number of newspapers that the number of cases of sexual violence is apparently even higher than people fear. It's not just about women, as we already knew. We always thought it was only a small number of men, but now a very large study has been published showing that it could be more men than we suspect. It is also about the elderly and Igbtqi. I am therefore concerned about the formation and alertness of the police for those groups that are less known. I just wanted to give you those two elements, Madam Secretary. We really need to pay attention to this in the field. We have also heard this in our long series of hearings for drawing up the resolution from a number of people on the ground. I would just like to draw your attention to this and bring it to your attention, as I have already done with your colleagues from Equal Opportunities and Justice. I'll definitely talk about that later. Thank you very much for your efforts in that area.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic518x.u45	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Cornet's 55018746C is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic518x.u46	Mr President, Madam Minister, many former couples choose after a divorce for residence co-parenthood, with the child or children staying equally with both parents. Although a child lives equally with each parent under a 50/50 scheme, it can still have only one main residence, the so-called residence. However, co-parenting does not in fact involve just one main residence for the child. I had already asked the Minister of Justice about this, namely why it is not possible to have two addresses for service. In his reply he referred to the existence of the residence register. However, he also stated that it was really your competence and that I had to ask you additional questions about it. That is why I am once again asking you my questions. It is true that a residence register has been introduced since 2016, which makes it possible to register children who are not dominated in a particular municipality, but who are staying there, for example at co-parenting, in the municipality. In this way, the parent in whom the child is not dominated, but is resident, can still enjoy certain financial or non-financial benefits associated with the stay in the municipality. Think of access to after-school care, playground work or library. A number of years ago an evaluation was made showing that few parents used the residence register, perhaps also because it is not very well known at all. Also, the municipalities would not communicate enough about the existence of the residence register. However, the residence register is not the same as an address for service. It does not offer the same socio-economic or tax rights attached to the address of residence. The financial, social, tax and other benefits arising from the entry of a person in the population register shall be the responsibility of the ministers concerned. That is why I have the following questions. Do you have a view of the number of children covered by a co-parenting scheme in our country? Do you have a view of the number of children registered in the municipality's residence register? Can you see if there has been an increase since the evaluation that was made a few years ago? Is it true that not all municipalities actively use the residence register? If that is the case, will you address the municipalities and ask them to communicate more actively about it with their citizens? Why is it not possible for children to have two places of residence in co-parenthood? Are there any legal and/or administrative objections to this? Do you think it would be appropriate to change that situation in the future? Why do you think that is desirable?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic518x.u47	Mr President, Mrs Platteau, there is no such thing as a residence register for unaccompanied minors. For a few years it has been possible, as you say, to register the shared housing of a non-devoted minor on a voluntary basis in the population registers. This information on shared accommodation is included in the National Register under item 021 which is mentioned in the child's file and in the parent providing accommodation. It is intended solely to inform the authorities concerned more about the fact that a child is effectively resident in its territory for a certain part of the time, in particular in the case of a parent providing accommodation. By creating this mention, the KB does not want to grant socio-economic or tax rights, both for the child and for the host parent. A minor child is registered in the population registers with one of his parents where he has his main address. It's the official address for all governments. In case of safety problems, the child is localisable, just like his two parents by registering the respective addresses in the National Register. This also fulfils the mission of the population register. The child is localisable and identifiable. Consequently, the current legislation should not be amended. I would, of course, like to provide you with the figures you wish to obtain in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic518x.u48	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. I must say, however, that it was a fairly technical answer. You also refer to the population register, so that municipalities know who is staying on their territory. I do see the point of that. I think it is also important that parents in co-parenting should at least be aware of the existence of the residence register. Sometimes it can also be psychologically important to know that the child can be registered, even though one parent does not have the right of residence of the child, because the ex-partner has it. In this way, the child is also registered at the address where one parent resides. I find that local authorities, as in Leuven, do not do any active communication about that possibility at all. Since its introduction in 2016, it is assumed that people are aware of this on their own. But it is not yet known at all, given the number of children still registered. That is why I think it is important that we communicate the possibility more widely to parents who raise their children in co-parenting. In addition, I am left with the question of why the place of residence can only be with one parent. Perhaps we should also have the social debate about the fact that the address for residence, the main residence, can only be with one parent, while a child in co-parenting by definition has two main places of residence. After all, it is equivalent for both parents. That is also psychologically very important for people who are divorced. I hope to receive the figures in writing soon. They're interesting to be able to follow up on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic518x.u49	Mr President, Mr Chanson has connection problems and is asking for her questions. 55018789C and 55019016C to be converted into written questions. I have another question of my own, No. 55018958C, which I would also like to translate into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic518x.u50	That's noted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic518x.u51	Mr. Chair, Minister, the last report of Committee P shows a dramatic increase in the number of complaints filed against police officers, particularly during 2020. While most complaints concern the behaviour of officers, such as the fact that police officers do not come to the scene or intervene after being contacted, the main cause of the complaints is the Coronavirus crisis, according to Committee P. Thus, 500 complaints concern this topic, including the lack of clarity in the eyes of the public. The Committee notes that the lack of clarity in the authorities' communication is, inter alia, responsible for this, and that this situation is likely to reduce adherence to the measures, increases the risk of errors by the police, and diminishes the credibility of the police. This is a fairly clear denunciation of a consequence of your repressive policy in the fight against the virus that you still intend to confirm through your Pandemic Bill. That's not all. The Committee notes that complaints of violence have also increased. The rate of complaints considered justified also increases to 13%, compared to 7.5% in 2019. This increase must resonate as an alarm signal for the police and the political world. Minister, what is your reaction to listening to these figures? What measures will you put in place to respond to them? Do you recognize the limitations of your repressive policy in the fight against the pandemic? In view of these poor results, are you prepared to question this policy rather than sink it into the marble of the pandemic law? Of the 13% substantiated complaints, can you tell me what proportion has been sanctioned?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic518x.u52	Mr. Chair, Minister, on Monday, June 7, 2021, the Standing Committee on the Control of Police Services released its 2020 Annual Report. This report shows that 3,112 complaints files were opened last year, compared to 2,646 in 2019 – an increase of 17.5%. It also proposes a detailed analysis of 2,142 complaints, which include the reporting of 3,928 criminal offences or acts of a criminal nature – the latter showing an increase of 2.5% in 2020. It should also be noted that the P Committee attached an analysis of the deficiencies found. Minister, can we have your feedback on this report, and in particular on the analyses mentioned? Several categories of infringements reported in 2020 are being significantly increased, compared to 2019 figures. This is the case, in particular, of offences registered by main categories concerning the individual's attitude (+27%), as well as offences relating to protected criteria, alleged race, colour, nationality, origin, ethnicity (+56%). Can we have you back on this? Finally, the point "intermediate considerations", concerning the action of the police integrated in the management of the first wave of the crisis of the covid-19, raises that the reported breaches, relating to the attitude of the police officer, are intimately linked to the communication between the police officer and the citizen. The P Committee made a series of recommendations to the integrated police on this issue on April 24, 2020. Can we be informed of the follow-up given to them?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic518x.u53	Mr Boukili, it seems important to me to contextualize the figures you are quoting. Of all the cases closed by the P Committee, 65.7% led to a decision that there was no malfunction, 13.6% resulted in a malfunction and 6.5% of the cases could not be sufficiently established. The 13.6 % of complaints that resulted in a finding of malfunction correspond to 180 complaints, 47 of which related to the manifestation of yellow vests, lodged at the end of 2018 and closed in 2020. With regard to follow-up, an orderly action was taken in 8.3 per cent of cases by the police force concerned. For the proportion of 5.5% of cases that have already been processed or forwarded to the judicial authorities, I invite you to ask your question to my honourable colleague in the Department of Justice. In addition, with regard to the 416 individual complaints concerning police involvement in measures against coronavirus, Committee P found that 66.9 per cent of the cases had no fault. In this context, various measures had already been taken by the police following the interim recommendations contained in the report of Committee P drafted during the first wave of the coronavirus crisis. These include the implementation of the integrated police task force covid-19. It transposes the provisions of the Ministerial Order, the clarifications of this Order to the FAQ list and the circular of the Attorneys General, including operational directives for the police. The guidelines can thus be applied rigorously throughout the country. Furthermore, they are constantly updated and/or supplemented on the basis of the work of the Government. In addition, many initiatives have been and are being undertaken within the integrated police force to continuously inform the public and raise awareness of the covid-19 measures imposed by the government, as well as their impact on the daily work of the police through appropriate social media channels. The very short timeframes between government action to combat the spread of the virus and its transposition on the ground have certainly played a role in their understanding, communication and even enforcement by the police on the ground. However, it must be borne in mind that part of the population, on the grounds that it challenged the legitimacy of the measures taken in the context of the covid-19 crisis, also de facto challenged the legitimacy of police intervention in this context. However, I maintain that these measures, although demanding considerable efforts from the population, were necessary. We can now see that with the vaccination strategy, the health situation is improving from day to day and that with the launch of the summer plan, we will be able to gradually return to normal life. I have already explained that the numbers and so-called poor results must be placed in the right context. Moreover, and this is all the more important, emergency measures to limit the spread of covid-19 in themselves have nothing to do with the results of police interventions that are, at best, part of monitoring compliance with them. In light of the above, I do not see how or why the issue raised would have any impact on the Pandemic Bill, let alone a relationship with the Pandemic Bill. Mr Senesael, the annual report of Committee P is the subject of an in-depth analysis. With regard to the findings that you invoke, these are obviously phenomena that hold my greatest attention. Integrity within the police organization is one of the important elements of my policy statement. In addition, initiatives are already under way to apprehend these phenomena, such as the NAPARs initiated following the July 2020 Interministerial Conference on Racism or the general states of the police, which place an important emphasis on integrity, diversity and the police-citizen relationship. As the P Committee itself points out, police work in monitoring compliance with health measures is all the more complex because it is part of a constantly changing environment, where the rules to be respected vary according to the changing health situation. These frequent changes create uncertainty for citizens and make the task of monitoring the police services more complex. As indicated by the Commissioner General of the Federal Police, the Chairman of the Standing Committee on Local Police and the Chair of the GPI Task Force at the Covid Parliamentary Committee, the GPI quickly organized itself in order to understand and manage this unprecedented situation at best, including by translating the measures adopted into constantly updated operational directives. As with any other measure, but even more so in the context of the current health crisis, communication to the citizen is indeed one of the sine qua nons of the latter's acceptance of the imposed measure and, consequently, of its respect. Various channels of communication have been used by the police areas: press conferences with the municipal authorities, publications on social networks. The Federal Police also used social media to relay information communicated and published by the authorities. Small awareness films were also made for the population. The operational directives issued by the GPI task force also remind members of the integrated police that it is appropriate in all cases to intervene with common sense and courtesy by briefly explaining the rule in order to avoid recurrence and to facilitate the operation of the intervention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic518x.u54	Minister, thank you for your answers. I would like to make a little clarification: among the complaints justified by the fact that the police are not doing their job, there is also the refusal to receive complaints, as in Ninove – a case that we have just mentioned. As I understand it, out of the 13 per cent substantiated complaints, only 8 per cent have been sanctioned. With regard to the relationship with the pandemic law, I would like to say that the same strategy is being pursued; it is only repressive. In 2020, 500 complaints were filed for covid measures alone. It's huge! I don't know if you realize that! Moreover, the lack of clarity of the measures is due not only to the speed of decision-making, but also to a lack of consultation, particularly in Parliament, but especially with the population. Pandemic law will certainly not improve that. The link is therefore obvious, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic518x.u55	Madam Minister, in my turn, I thank you for the quality of your answer and for the elements of reflection you bring. In any case, I am quite on the same page as you, Madam Minister, when you talk about your tripod on your general policy note, this tripod which is based on the three elements you have taken up: integrity, diversity and the relationship between police and citizens. I particularly stress what can be done to foster this harmony between the citizen and his police, this renewed confidence that needs to be put in place. Various facets exist and you mentioned some of them, minister. In conclusion, I would say to you that tomorrow, for example, I am organizing a round table in my entity in Estaimpuis between the coordinators of the seven local preventive partnerships that are installed in my entity and the police to exchange in order to weave the necessary link that constitutes good trust between the citizen and his police and to see how the police can help the legitimate demands of citizens. With good will, I think, we can weave these ties. This is important in the policy that you and we wish to pursue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic518x.u56	Debates of the European Parliament 55018826C by Mrs Jadin will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic518x.u57	Madam Minister, last week the police in the United States, Australia, New Zealand, Europol and in particular the police in Sweden and the Netherlands were conducting a very large-scale operation against organised crime circles around the world. Hundreds of arrests, millions of seizures, from drugs to tons: the operation that follows three years of investigations and listening to encrypted messaging shows impressive results. Minister, the operation, it is assumed, opens the door to new police actions. Do we know more about this? Was our own federal police involved in this operation? If so, in what form? Are any follow-up expected in our territory? More structurally, are coordinations of this magnitude, commensurate with the global nature of certain criminal organisations, intended to become sustainable?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic518x.u58	My colleague, the Belgian integrated police did not participate in Operation Ironside. It was a judicial police operation conducted by foreign police forces, including the US FBI, in close coordination with the Australian Federal Police. As Belgian Minister of the Interior, I am therefore not allowed to provide you with further information on this foreign judicial file.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic518x.u59	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic518x.u60	Debates of the European Parliament 55018833C by Mrs Jadin will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic518x.u61	Mr President, Minister, my speech is about a very important subject. There is a very dangerous ransomware network rolled up on January 27th. This was announced by Europol. In the media, a lot of information about computers that were blocked and that their users were asked to be able to access that data, which a lot of users have done. We've seen that in doctors, hospitals and many other industries. So a lot of victims have paid not to lose their data and keep their business working. After research by Professor Goukens of the Thomas More Hogeschool, it appears that the victims remain completely in the cold. The great cooperation between different countries makes the complex to know who does what. That is why I would like to address you, Madam Minister of the Interior, but also the Minister of Justice, who will answer the question next week. Europol, Eurojust, the police and the ministries of justice acknowledge that the victims have never been contacted, but they say that there has been an incredible amount of seizures, including large amounts of money and crypto coins. The police now claim that it is impossible to inform all victims and forwards the case to CERT.be, which should deal with this. I have the following questions, Madam Secretary. Is it true that the victims will still be contacted, so that they are listed as victims and also know who the great criminal behind this was? In this way, they could also file a claim for damages. Anything happen to that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic518x.u62	Mr President, Mrs Bury, providing information to victims and bringing them into contact with specialised services is one of the tasks of our police services, as provided for in Article 46 of the Law of 5 August 1992. The fight against cybercrime takes place primarily in a chain approach. Informing and sensitizing users of information and communication systems is one of the tasks of the CCB. Thus, there is no question of transferring the hot potato, but of letting the partner best placed to perform certain tasks, in this case the CERT as the operational service of the CCB. This is always done in consultation with and with the consent of the prosecution. At the request of the prosecution, CERT.be is indeed in some cases called upon to inform potential victims. CERT.be has the necessary contacts with various providers who can in turn inform their customers and, if necessary, assist in restoring their systems. Normally this is always about Belgian end users. Data relating to international users will be shared through Europol's European Cybercrime Centre. Because of the secret of the investigation, our police services cannot answer questions about concrete files. Questions relating to specific cases can be submitted to the prosecution. When the police receive information on possible compromised computer systems, an assessment of the nature of the threat and the possibilities for investigation is made as part of the investigation management. The choices are not arbitrary, as you insinuate, but aim to jump with the available people and resources as efficiently as possible. Belgian police services do not normally communicate directly with international CERTs. This communication takes place via CERT.be, which is part of international fora. This question should therefore be submitted to the CCB and/or CERT.be. International cooperation in the field of police generally takes place through the channel of the European Cybercrime Centre. The Joint Cybercrime Action Crime Task Force of EC3 can also work together in concrete cases. When end-users are informed of a potential cybersecurity problem, there is no need for an effective intrusion or a disadvantage. If they have to establish that they have suffered damage, victims may rely on the same instruments as the victims of other crimes, such as, for example, a possible insurance policy, especially in the case of undertakings or the civil-party procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic518x.u63	Madam Minister, the answer is a good one, but we do not know where we are now. You say the investigation is classified. According to the professor, none of the individuals concerned are contacted. However, a very large network has been rolled up. There is no answer to that. You say that I must address my question to the CCB, but that has already been done. The CCB has a coordinated answer, which is as meaningless as your answer to the question of what stage of the investigation we are now at. I do not ask for specific names of people or who gets what back, but simply whether the procedure is running, or is being contacted with everyone. Can anyone in the next step file a claim for damages or apply for insurance? However, these are already the next steps. The first step must be taken. I did not receive a specific answer to that. It's a very large file that's not about individuals. How is this global approach taken? That's why it's a good thing I'm having that conversation. I have a motion that the President will read out with a number of things that need to be looked at urgently, so that there is certainty for the victims.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic518x.u64	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Katleen Bury and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Katleen Bury and the response of the Minister for the Interior, Institutional Reforms and Democratic Renewal, - having regard to Europol's announcement that the world's most dangerous ransomware network was rolled up on 27 January 2021; - whereas the victims remain completely cold because of a bunch of umbrella umbrellas opening up national ministries of justice, police, Europol, Eurojust and other institutions; - whereas the police do not do much with the information about the victims or with the amounts of money and crypto coins seized; - whereas the victims who did not appear to be part of the government were never contacted; - whereas the police claim not to have time to inform all victims and transfer the hot potato to CERT.be; - having regard to the fact that such negligence amounts to (at least) negligence and even collusion after the facts of the administration; asks the government - urgently take the necessary initiatives to notify and inform all victims in the first instance; - initiate the necessary procedures to enable victims to exhaust the necessary remedies to be compensated in one way or another, - to examine the arrangements with the CERTs in the United Kingdom, Canada, Japan, Australia, etc.; - examine how other EU countries notify, notify and initiate the necessary procedures." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Katleen Bury and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Ms. Katleen Bury and the response of the Minister of the Interior, Institutional Reforms and Democratic Renewal, - in view of Europol's announcement of the dismantling of the world's most dangerous ransomware network on 2 January 2021; - whereas the victims are completely abandoned in the face of the refusal of the national ministries of justice, the police, Europol, Eurojust and other institutions to assume their responsibilities; - Whereas the police do not do much of the data stolen from the victims or the quantities of money and cryptocurrency seized; Whereas the victims who were not part of the authorities were not contacted at any time; - Considering that the police claim that they do not have time to inform all the victims and send the bullet back to CERT.be; - Whereas such negligence constitutes (at least) a guilty abstention or even complicity of the authorities after the facts; asks the government - to take the necessary initiatives as a matter of urgency to notify and inform all victims first of all; - initiate appropriate procedures to enable victims to exhaust the necessary remedies in order to obtain any form of compensation; - to verify agreements with CERTs in the United Kingdom, Canada, Japan, Australia, etc.; - to study how other EU Member States notify, inform victims in their countries and initiate the necessary procedures." A simple motion was tabled by Mr Jan Briers. A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Jan Briers. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic518x.u65	Madam Minister, a consultancy office recently conducted an audit on the issue of a number of incidents in the Brussels fire department. In this external audit, the Agency makes recommendations on complaint handling, awareness raising, leadership, communication and recruitment. Interestingly, a clear code of conduct, a social media policy and a uniform disciplinary procedure, a clear mission vision and clear values are required. I have a number of questions about this. Are you aware of the results of this external audit, which was ordered by the Brussels Secretary of State, Mr Smet? Are you aware of similar complaints about racism, sexism, discrimination, in the fire department? I would also like to have an explanation of the values that are being expressed by the fire services. What are the rules for promoting these values on social media, for example? How do you plan to continue working on this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic518x.u66	Mr Vandenput, the values to be promoted by the fire department are set out in the Royal Decree of 19 April 2014 laying down the administrative status of operational personnel of the relief zones. This Statute points to respect for the values of loyalty, duty, integrity, dignity and courtesy, and prohibits discrimination and any behaviour that could undermine public confidence in its services. In addition to the administrative status, there is the circular of 9 August 2011 on the protection of privacy and the right of image. This circular reminds the firefighters of the principles of professional secrecy, protection of privacy and the right of image, and makes recommendations for the relationship of firefighters with the press. These rules can also be applied to the use of social media. In addition to the articles of the administrative statute and the circular, each area of assistance shall lay down additional rules on the values to be respected, in particular in the use of social media, in a sunny regulation. In any case, I will instruct my services to further examine the development of a code of conduct on these matters.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic518x.u67	Madam Minister, as you said yourself, these letters dated ten years ago and in the meantime the social media have appeared. I would ask you to pay extra attention to this, because in times of social media some things are said very quickly when they are not always true.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic518x.u68	Madam Secretary, we have been in the federal phase of crisis management for 15 months. That is quite right, but we must also say that the vaccination campaign is going very smoothly and that the figures are finally moving in the right direction. We are moving forward at a stage where we can think about preparing for what is called the return to a normal situation in the jargon. I know that the crisis is not over at all and that we need to look at what the relaxations and the re-traveling will give, but it would be good to start thinking about what will come after the federal phase. How do you look at the further development of crisis management? Will you take into account a number of criteria, such as the percentage of vaccinated Belgians and the number of infections? What method do your services use in this respect? If the federal phase is completed, do you see a provincial or municipal phase where the situation is managed at local level, but where federal coordination is no longer needed? What impact does the pandemic law, which will soon be discussed in plenary, have on leaving the federal phase? Imagine leaving the federal phase and going to a provincial stage, but that the pandemic in the autumn flares up with a new variant and we have another federal phase, while the pandemic law has now been passed. Do we have to announce an epidemiological emergency in Parliament first in order to do so? How do you look at that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic518x.u69	Mrs Ingels, I think it is right to say that you believe that the pandemic law will be adopted, because, as you know, we are ready for it. We are still waiting for further advice from the Council of State. Having said that, since the announcement of the federal phase, the measures have been taken mainly at national level. As you yourself say, once the vaccination rate is sufficiently high, the level of infection is sufficiently low and once the pressure on hospitals has fallen sufficiently, we will be able to move from crisis management to risk management. We may now be going to an orange phase, but we are not yet in the green phase. At this stage, we will be able to see how we can complement federal crisis management with local crisis management, for example, to deal effectively with certain sudden flare-ups of the epidemic at local level, insofar as that is the most appropriate and the most workable way. In any case, there will also need to be a more efficient procedure in the coming weeks and months in order to be able to act quickly, proportionately and effectively between the health departments of all the governments of this country, as well as between the multidisciplinary crisis structures, and to manage any local outbreaks. It is precisely for this reason that the Crisis Centre has contacted a number of other partners in recent weeks, such as the FPS Public Health, regional health authorities, Sciensano and the like to sit around the table and prepare risk management. Health authorities were asked in the lap of the RAG-RMG to determine the tilting point to move from crisis management at the federal level to risk management. It will, of course, be necessary to take account of possible local ubibracles in order to be able to act quickly and efficiently. Consideration is being given to a system whereby mayors and governors are informed on the basis of early warnings when certain health thresholds are exceeded. Where cluster management for the local outbreaks would be insufficient and the number of infections in a given municipality or region would continue to increase, the surrounding municipalities could also be placed in alert mode. In addition, the mayor will be able to check, if necessary in consultation with the regional health inspector and the municipal crisis cell, whether certain additional local sanitary measures are needed. In that case, the mayor may decide to announce the municipal phase when the epidemiological situation or the practical organisation of the management of that local crisis would require it. The thresholds for early warning and alert mode will be determined by the RAG-RMG. Hence the question that has been asked. As far as the pandemic law is concerned, we have already said a few things about it and exchanged views. The aim is to have a specific legal basis for the measures taken by administrative police during an epidemic. At the moment when a particular situation meets the definition of an epidemic emergency, whether in the autumn or as rarely as possible, that epidemic emergency will be declared by royal decree and then ratified by the legislator. The proclamation of the epidemic emergency will be a precondition for the federal action of the administrative police to manage the epidemic emergency. At that time, the federal phase will also be proclaimed by the Minister of the Interior, insofar as this has not happened before. Moreover, as you may know, the pandemic law also explicitly provides for the possibility for mayors and governors to take stricter measures when local circumstances would require it. This has been written with the necessary incentives, so that this is done effectively. If the situation on the ground no longer meets the definition of an epidemic emergency in the coming weeks or months, local authorities will still be able to take local measures by administrative police based on their already existing and well-known public order and crisis management powers. In this way, the puzzle for managing the crisis can indeed be laid.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic518x.u70	Mr President, Minister, may I conclude from your reply that the government is in the process of phasing out or at least preparing for the federal phase? Is she considering when and on the basis of which it will be phased out? Forgive me for asking an additional question, but I am not entirely clear on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic518x.u71	Mr President, Mrs Ingels, that is not a problem. As we always try to be forward-looking, we hope that we will soon get out of the crisis. The necessary elements are now being identified to move from crisis management to risk management. The necessary preparations and presentation are indeed being made on this today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic518x.u72	Madam Minister, a sound fraud policy can only succeed if the inspection services have sufficient information. The law on privacy and on the police station sometimes throw up a dam in the exchange. There is no doubt that privacy must be guaranteed and maintained; but apparently it is a well-known fact among the perpetrators of fraud that inspection services must fight with unequal weapons. The SIOD Action Plan highlighted several issues concerning the exchange of information. In order to improve the effectiveness of the various fraud fighters, the exchange of information between the inspection services and the police should be reviewed or improved. Do you consider the law on police officers of 5 August 1992 and the recent amendment of 22 May 2019 sufficient in the context of the fight against social fraud? Do you intend, in consultation with your colleague in Social Affairs, to amend the law if necessary? Do you think it would be useful to provide part of the training on social fraud during police training or to extend it, and will you contact your competent colleague? Could a regular exchange of information and phenomenon description between the social inspection services, the police on the ground and the detectives not bring added value?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic518x.u73	Mr Verreyt, under the leadership and authority of the Public Prosecutor or the Labour Auditor, information is already being exchanged at central level, in concrete cases of major and organised social fraud. In addition, there is a local consultation between police and social inspection services with regard to checks to be carried out and also to coordinate information and actions. I agree with you that I'm sure we can do even better. Last week, the Ministerial Committee on the fight against social and tax fraud adopted the first action plan to implement a coordinated anti-fraud policy. It was led by the Minister for Finance, responsible for coordinating the fight against fraud, and by the Minister for Economic Affairs and Employment as Vice-President. One of the projects concerns in particular cooperation and the exchange of information between the social inspection services and the police. Following an already existing cooperation agreement between the Labour Auditorate, the Federal Police and Social Inspectorates, this cooperation will be updated and strengthened for large-scale social fraud in the framework of this new anti-fraud plan. As far as police training in the field of social fraud is concerned, cooperation with the social inspection is already being discussed during the initial training of police inspectors. Social infringements are then studied more extensively during basic training as police chief inspector. Specific training on social fraud is also offered regularly to police officers in office. In any case, the training shall also be regularly updated.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic518x.u74	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The fact that the SIOD refers to this as a pain point is an indication that there is still a lot to be done on the ground. I am pleased that the SIOD call did not fall into deaf ears, referring to your action plans that were discussed last week. Action plans are always good, as long as they are rolled out on the ground itself. As you said yourself, phenomena change over time. What an inspector was given a few years in basic training may not be of any use today. Fraudsters are always looking for new ways to do their thing and hopefully the police story will follow that. Social policy can only go hand in hand with a firm fight against social fraud if it can lead the police and the police in an informed and educated way. This can only bring added value to the work of our inspection services.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic518x.u75	Debates of the European Parliament 55018964C by Mr Cogolati is without object.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic518x.u76	Mr. President, Madam Minister, I would like to respond to a column by Mr. Daniel de Beer, professor at the Faculty of Law at Saint-Louis University, which appeared this Saturday in the newspaper Le Soir. In May 2018 in Roeselare, Mr.Lamine Bangoura, of Guinean origin, was sentenced by default to be expelled from his home. During the expulsion, eight police officers intervene. Once Lamine is obstructed, four police officers keep him on his stomach. They call an ambulance in order, according to them, to give him a sedative. Very shortly after the ambulance arrived, Lamine died. According to the medical examiner, the cause of death is positional asphyxiation, following the use of certain physical restraint techniques. As a result of this death, an investigating judge is brought before the court. The Chamber of Council, however, takes the decision to dismiss the case. The family appealed and the indictment chamber in Ghent recently confirmed the dismissal. I would remind you that it is not for the Chamber of Counsel or the Chamber of Bets to pronounce the acquittal or conviction of the police officers. It is just a question of whether the case deserves, in the light of the prosecution and the defence case, to be referred to the substantive court. The two courts therefore considered that the elements of the case were not sufficiently serious to be the subject of public debate. There is therefore no need to go further, while the cause of death is known: positional asphyxiation. There was a debriefing of the police officers after the events, but before they were heard in the course of the investigation. Nothing is known of what happened between the time the ambulance was called and the finding of death. Minister, what is your reaction to this dismissal? Don't you think the case would have deserved public treatment and a real trial in which the police could have defended themselves? What is your position on the techniques used by police officers and their consequences? What do you intend to do to avoid this kind of tragedy in the future? Is disciplinary proceedings under way? What is its current state?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic518x.u77	My colleague, the principle of the separation of powers and the independence of the judiciary are the pillars of our democracy. As a member of the executive, I cannot rule on the decisions of the Chamber of Council and the Indictments Chamber. The Bangoura case was dealt with by the Prosecutor's Office and the investigating judge of Courtrai. The case was first investigated by the PGF and then by the P Committee. The RIO Police Area transmitted all the information requested to the P Committee and all the police officers concerned were questioned. After this intervention, a debriefing took place as usual. The head of the corps was present on that occasion. I agree with you that we must do everything we can to avoid such tragedies. In-depth training is being put in place within the integrated police force in collaboration with other disciplines and justice to deal appropriately with those who are likely to suffer from an episode of agitated delirium syndrome. For more details, I refer you to the answer I gave to Ms.Gabriëls, Ms.Ingels and Ms.Song's oral questions. In such situations, disciplinary proceedings are initiated after notification by the Public Prosecutor's Office, as provided for in article 26 of the Act on the disciplinary status of police personnel. In order to maintain objectivity, the RIO Police Area did not take any action and waited for the charges to be notified. There are no disciplinary investigations at this time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic518x.u78	Minister, I thank you for your answers and would like to remind you that this kind of business is one of those that undermines the image of the police. Highlighting these cases would help restore public confidence in the police. It is a pity that there has been no public debate to shed light on this matter. I have heard your answer and thank you for it. I'll come back to you if anything new comes up.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic518x.u79	Madam Minister, I read on the website of the National Crisis Centre which took part in a digital consultation of the Network of Directors-General of the European Crisis Centres on 10 June. I have absolutely nothing against working together, especially if this is based on a cooperation that now exists within the Benelux. There are cooperation agreements on risks that cross borders, how we will work with liaison officers, notifications and so on. I have nothing against that. My question is just what this cooperation will look like in concrete terms. What themes will it be about? How will information be exchanged? What role does Europe play in this project? Then we get to one of my dadas. I also said it in the policy statement. In 2018, through a risk assessment at DG Home, Belgium agreed to work on ten priority risks at European level. I would very much like this to be confirmed in Parliament, because we will then agree on the priority risks in our country in terms of cybercrime, terrorism, nature, pandemics for five years, from 2018 to 2023. It is important that we agree on what the priorities are. This has been preceded by very thorough discussions with experts and the competent services. I believe that this has been put together in a very good way. I would like you to confirm those ten risks in Parliament and to invest in them in the years to come. I mean that the material purchased by the services and the multidisciplinary exercises that are organized about those ten risks happen, because there is a kind of logic in that. This logic is also used in the Netherlands. They work there in periods of three years. Then we will not be surprised in Parliament. Then one does not say: how is it possible that one was not prepared for it? I believe that this will provide security for the services, for you as Minister of the Interior and for Parliament. We decide that, we knock that off, and we go for it. Madam Secretary, what risks will the 27 countries cooperate on? What is in the cooperation protocol that is about to be concluded?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic518x.u80	Mrs Ingels, the main objective of the network of Directors-General of the European crisis centres is to provide a forum for the exchange of information, but also for coordination between the various crisis centres in Europe. This aims not only to improve national crisis management but also to improve crisis management at European level where possible. Indeed, many crisis management authorities have similar problems, such as staff flexibility, adjustments to long-term crises or a lack of a clearly defined legal framework. So much can be learned from each other. An initiative such as that of 10 June is in any case aimed at establishing closer trust relations, so that there are also contact points at the time of a crisis. By making these contacts before and not waiting until there is a crisis, time is saved. There is also a dedicated web platform, available on the Council of Europe website, to which participants have access and through which information can be exchanged. Today, the permanent secretariat of the network is provided by the Belgian Federal Crisis Centre, which is an important initiator in the European framework. Information is therefore exchanged between all the different crisis centres, there is an early warning system to respond to crises, good practices are exchanged and lessons learned from the management of a specific crisis, which will of course be no different in the current crisis. The European Commission's Emergency Response Coordination Centre supports the European crisis centres and will also take on a facilitating and coordinating role. During the meeting on 10 June, the Emergency Response Coordination Centre stressed the mutual interest in cooperation in many areas, such as certain preparations for crises, and the sharing of information. I have heard your suggestion about the ten risks and how to deal with them at Belgian or European level, but it is up to Parliament to take the necessary initiatives and continue in the Belgian crisis structures. The main objective of the cooperation protocol between the partners is to improve crisis management within the network and to enable more intense cooperation within Europe. In any case, it is important to preserve the sovereignty of each country, but all the countries and all the participants in the network are convinced that we can achieve better crisis management in Europe if we work more closely with the crisis centres. During the meeting on 10 June, the participating Member States indicated their support for the cooperation protocol and their intention to sign it at the next meeting on 14 September.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic518x.u81	Madam Secretary, I keep yelling a little in the desert. Belgium and the Netherlands shared the nuclear risk at Benelux level. Luxembourg fell out of that. It was a bit of a search for themes to work together around. I also think it is necessary to bring up the right issues to work together. The pandemic is one of them, but there should still be. I continue to argue that risk assessment should be used to identify the risks that are most important to our country. There are many issues on which we can work together, such as global warming and the impact of globalisation. Next time you come to Parliament and propose ten risks, I will certainly support you. Priority must be given urgently. There are a lot of risks, but there are risks that we can do something about and we can make funds available for. In this sense, we can work together, including with the European Crisis Centre. I think we should do that exercise. It's actually already made, but it's not validated by politics. We can continue to complain that there is not enough commitment on certain issues, but as long as we do not make a joint decision, we cannot go on. I've already seen fire zones preparing for something and police zones for something else, but that means we're losing time and resources. I know you can't manage everything, there's always a black swan that we haven't seen coming. However, I really believe that if we do this carefully and decide together what risks are really important and have an impact on our country, we can demonstrate a reasoned proactivity that can help you and the crisis centres in this country to move forward. Now the budgets go in all directions because one prepares for one and the other for another. Let us take one stream and confirm it in this House.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic518x.u82	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Moutquin converted 55018992C into a written question. Mr Thiébaut has put his question No. Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay,
