ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic484x.u1	Madam President, a number of questions relate to the audit of the Office of Foreigners. Next week, however, an exchange of views is planned with the Secretary of State. Could we not postpone all of these issues in the context of next week's exchange of views and, thus, move as far forward as possible today on the other issues? Would it not be appropriate to do so?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic484x.u2	We'll follow the agenda as it is.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic484x.u3	It was a proposal made in the interests of efficiency.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic484x.u4	I propose that we actually meet efficiently and that everyone keeps to speaking time as much as possible. I shall first give the floor to Mrs Van Camp.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic484x.u5	Mr Secretary of State, I refer to the question that has been put.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic484x.u6	Mr Secretary of State, I have asked you a number of times and now the bullet is really through the church. You have explained that additional budgets are included in the budget and that this will eliminate the waiting lists. That's a noble cause. You were interviewed by three Ghent students, just like I did yesterday. They asked me if I could say anything positive about the Secretary of State's policy. At that time, I mentioned the extra money that is being made available to get rid of the waiting lists as quickly as possible and to shorten the procedures. That is a correct ambition, and I hope that you will succeed as well. The number of asylum applications is falling and the number of decisions is again above 2,000. The delay is therefore being reduced, and that is a good thing. Hopefully, the teams of Dirk Van den Bulck and Freddy Roosemont will be able to make real progress, so that in 2024 you can unpack the waiting lists with the nice balance. I wish you every success. You've been given extra money, but the exact distribution has yet to be looked at. In the meantime, can you tell me in detail exactly how the many millions will be distributed? What services do they get what? Can you split up into staff, operating costs and possibly other investments?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic484x.u7	Mrs Camp asks a question about the long procedures and the ill-functioning return policy, Mr Francken, about the extra resources. It is not for nothing that both questions are dealt with together. After all, one has to do with the other. The Council of Ministers of 23 April 2021 approved the first allocation of additional resources. I have worked hard for these resources, and I am pleased that the government wants to make a stronger policy on asylum and migration a priority. The distribution was worked out on the basis of the real needs in the field and the new policy priorities in the policy vision I already presented to this committee, which will be discussed again next Tuesday. Then we will talk about the audit in the Home Affairs Committee, and more generally about how best to deal with the asylum chain. As announced, the focus is on eliminating structural staff shortages in the services, but, of course, mainly on new projects with which we want to implement the government agreement. A first pillar consists of strengthening and modernising the asylum authorities. The budgets needed to achieve care are currently enormous, because people have to wait too long for a decision to be made. It's a well-known fact. It has already been said a few times: the quicker the asylum procedure is completed, the less asylum seekers have to wait in an asylum centre and the less reception is needed, although we always have to speak with some caution, because of course everything depends on the pressure of asylum entry. The asylum seekers who received a decision in 2020 had to wait an average of 13 months for an answer. That is far too long, and that is why I am very pleased with the questions, which rightly point to a structural problem which has existed for far too long. In those thirteen months, the time for the appeal procedure still has to be counted, which means seven more months. Reducing this deadline to an average of six months, as set out in the policy statement, is a titanic task and very difficult to achieve. Even if it is as if one climbs the Mont Ventoux squared, one must certainly have the ambition to do so. The sooner a decision is taken, the lower the reception costs, the faster asylum seekers can work on their integration or the faster we can work on their return. It is too early at the moment to predict exactly when we will be able to complete everything within short deadlines. Hopefully that will be as soon as possible, but first the existing work stock needs to be eliminated. The pace at which this is possible will depend heavily on future influx and on the implementation of staff reinforcements. We will do everything we can to achieve this as soon as possible. A second pillar is the improvement of the quality of care. We do this, among other things, by investing in adapted infrastructure and by providing the necessary framework to fully operationalise the registration centre. Much has already been said about the registration centre. In addition, additional projects are planned to increase the employment and skills acquisition of residents. I have already stressed and will continue to emphasise the importance of the employment of asylum seekers in this committee, while waiting for a ruling on their procedure. It is good for everyone that asylum seekers learn competences, that they are strengthened and that they contribute. This will make us all better, either in an integration path or in a return path. The third and largest pillar is, of course, the development of a restrictive return policy. We strengthen the various links of the return chain with a focus on strict and sustained follow-up, with voluntary return as the first option. Closed centres will also be strengthened in order to make maximum use of available sites. In an upcoming return policy, it is about individual reception. I don't need to remind you how many orders to leave the territory are given. It is titanic work and requires the necessary investment to follow these orders individually. A final pillar is the strengthening of migration services and the general organisation of services. Even visa applications in the context of studies, employment or family reunification should be dealt with quickly. We must also strengthen the services for this purpose. On 23 April, the Council of Ministers approved the allocation of EUR 35 million for the financial year 2021. The remaining policy buffer in the commission will be further distributed in a next exercise based on further concrete needs. This amounts to approximately EUR 19.5 million in staff appropriations for staff enhancement, representing a total of 730 staff. Of course, this has been calculated on the basis of the possible dates of recruitment. In addition, €15.5 million in operating and investment appropriations will be redistributed, including for digitisation projects, infrastructure development and specific project funding in the context of reception. Finally, a working group representing the various departments, Selor and the administration of the Minister of Civil Service, is already in the process of achieving recruitment as quickly as possible. Given the high number of additional staff, it will take time to recruit candidates for each post. We already want to recruit a first group of employees this year, for the most critical functions, in order to complete the recruitment campaign in 2022. We are therefore engaged in a recruitment campaign. I say to the Belgian, the Fleming, the Waal or the Brusselser who would follow the committee meeting massively here: be interested, come to strengthen the asylum and migration services, we need you, we can use extra strong people in our services to speed up the process and ensure faster procedures and better integration and return policies.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic484x.u8	Madam President, it is clear to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic484x.u9	Mr Secretary of State, you are talking about 35 million for this year. I understand you had $50 million for this year. So you will look forward to 15 million in a later phase. A number of staff will be added to DVZ, or will the new staff be spread over Fedasil and the CGVS? I'll get those figures in more detail. It is about EUR 19.5 million, also for the following years, so the amount will become structural. That's about a lot of employees. I wish you luck with the recruitments. It's going through Selor, it's going to be important to get a good deal with Mrs. De Sutter. With me it was a party colleague, namely Mr Steven Vandeput. That went well. However, it is not easy. It was very difficult at the time to find new staff, I have to say honestly. Perhaps now, because of the economic crisis, it will be a little easier. I certainly wish you well. You're talking about 15.5 million for digitalization. That is what we will certainly be discussing in the course of the audit. You talk about infrastructure, operation and a piece of shelter. Is that shelter for people without a place to stay? Is that reception for asylum seekers? You have enough budget to do that. You have more than enough budget for this year, namely 462 million, because the inflow is lower. What kind of shelter is that? Can you explain that? If not, I'll ask you in writing. I do not want to fish you, but I would like to know the figures of the extra budgets, so that we can monitor whether they work properly. I have been given extra money a few times and often for 1001 reasons it was very difficult to get that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic484x.u10	Madam President, I refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic484x.u11	Mrs Van Camp, thank you for your question regarding the escape of a resident of the closed centre of Vottem during an emergency hospitalization. The resident was taken to the emergency department of the Citadel Hospital after swallowing a nail clipper, as a surgical procedure was needed that cannot be performed by the medical service in the closed center. The medical service is responsible for the treatment of residents, but for certain conditions or investigations an external agreement is made for specialized assistance, which seems logical to me. For urgent assistance, the resident is taken to the emergency department of the nearest hospital. While waiting for the surgical procedure, the resident loosened his hand from the handcuff that tied him to the bed. After a skirmish with the guard, he reached the exit of the hospital and escaped. The police were immediately informed. Several patrols and a helicopter have unfortunately not been able to find the resident. Internally, the procedures are clarified in order to ensure better safety, as this is effectively frustrating to have to establish. I hope that a reinforced internal procedure will also clarify how we can avoid this, because this should not happen.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic484x.u12	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. Have you perhaps missed the question about the facts that the person concerned has committed?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic484x.u13	Mrs Van Camp, the Secretary of State has given an answer. You have the floor for a reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic484x.u14	Madam President, I also asked what facts that person had on his criminal record. That was the first question in my text. If there is no answer to that question, I will certainly put it again. Mr Secretary of State, I find it a very unfortunate incident. It is even more hallucinating when you describe that the person concerned has released his hand from the buoy and has taken another guard away. I'm really surprised about that. I was still waiting for an answer to the question as to what facts the person concerned had committed, but I understand that you will now look at the procedure and learn lessons from it, I hope.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic484x.u15	Madam President, Mrs Van Camp, your questions also reflect my feeling when I see so many people entering, of which two thirds are not refugees and for which the level of protection has decreased. I am, of course, following international developments closely, not only in the Sahel but everywhere. If you ask me how I personally feel about these figures and those stories, I would like to stress again: very bad. Recently, I also clarified that we need to identify the root causes of migration. Often there are people for whom the whole district collects money to let them leave for Europe and for whom it turns out that they have no right to international protection. Those people will have a dangerous journey on them, without it leading to any result. The fact that people have to live in very difficult conditions, even more so in covid times, gives me the opportunity to emphasise that the battle we are fighting against a deadly virus is indeed a battle that we must fight together, at global level, to prevent the influx that is happening today from getting even bigger. If we want to avoid that, we must also accept our international responsibility. I therefore hope that Europe will show leadership in this respect and develop stronger links with the countries of origin of those people. Europe must also develop trade relations and make democracies stronger. In the fight against terrorism, which is raging everywhere, not only in the Middle East but also in Africa, for example, we can play an important role in ensuring that people do not make the decision to leave and, as is currently the case, not to have international protection. People don't usually run for pleasure. First of all, I feel very sad about this. That doesn't mean we have to do anything about this. That does not mean, however, that we must bring everyone to Europe or Belgium. Europe must ensure that reception in its own region is strengthened, and that is what is happening. Most people are taken care of in their own region. You may also have the figures for the millions of people who are being received in Lebanon, Turkey or Africa. Hence the importance of resettlement operations to help countries to continue to provide reception in those regions. We must continue to support them in this. Belgian and European foreign policy also plays an extremely important role in this. We need to help stabilize those regions. That is the task that we, as Europe, face. We are already taking a number of initiatives in this area, but I am not the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Defence or Development Cooperation. However, I would also like to play my part, because I think it is too important to leave it to certain ministers alone. Together, we must send a much clearer signal that it is important that we, our little Belgian country, should continue to play the diplomatic role that we have played throughout our history, in order to help stabilise regions. After all, that is important. You also asked me what else we are going to do in Belgium to do this, and what we are going to do to change this. I have spoken about foreign, European and international policy, but we also need to see what we can do. I can only stress that the European Asylum and Migration Pact must be established as soon as possible. After all, we must avoid sending people from the locker to the wall. The images we've seen of Ceuta are horrible. This has only made it clear to us that we are facing problematic situations if we leave our external borders solely dependent on the countries of origin. For us, clear border control, control and screening of persons are of great importance, as are the humane and correct handling of them. That's what we need to work on. I will stick to that, because I have noticed that the President has looked hard but righteously at me so that I may finish.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic484x.u16	Mr Secretary of State, unlike the previous question, you have answered it. You're gonna keep ticking off the same belt. You continue to hope for Europe and hope for the pact, as you literally say. But that's getting delayed over and over again. A number of questions will be raised later on in the agenda. The figures of the CGS inflow for the month of April 2021 have just been published. This shows that the level of protection has fallen further. In other words, only 32% of asylum seekers who claim to be refugees or who are entitled to subsidiary protection status effectively comply with this, while almost 70% do not. You say we can't catch everyone. Then it is time for you to do something about that figure, which has been in freefall since this and the previous government. That is a big difference from the period of government in which we were responsible for this policy. In this committee, we have tried several times to make it clear to you that the concepts you refer to are expressed and will not work. You clearly do not want to listen to our warnings and I fear that practice will show that this policy is failing. If, for example, you see last month's figures, you will eventually see that you are hoping in vain for a European solution. Hopefully there will be plenty of time to adjust at that time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic484x.u17	The Secretary of State wants to respond, but we're not gonna play too much ping-pong.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic484x.u18	Madam President, I think that is a nice game in itself, but we are not going to do that. Mrs Van Camp, you said that the figures during this legislature and the previous ones were in freefall, but that this was not the case when the N-VA was in the government. At least that's how I understood it. During the previous legislature, however, the N-VA was part of the majority.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic484x.u19	Just so we're clear, I was talking specifically about the government in current cases.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic484x.u20	Okay, then I'm with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic484x.u21	I want to make it clear that you are not responsible for the policy during that period of current affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic484x.u22	That's correct. We know the figures for the people who applied for asylum in 2015, they were 48,000 people. At that time, the government simply could not do anything about it. I'll be the last to say it was Theo Francken's fault that 48,000 people have applied for asylum. This had everything to do with the geopolitical situation. That is why the view of geopolitical reality and the approach to our foreign policy are important. This also applies to the European view of the matter, because we need an integrated approach, otherwise we will not get there. I just wanted to stress that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic484x.u23	I have already said that, of course, you were not responsible for current policy. Moreover, I did not refer so much to the inflow rates, which are now beginning to assume dramatic proportions. You indicated very clearly and correctly that this had other causes in 2014 and 2015. However, I was mainly talking about the degree of protection. In the period from 2015 to 2018, it was often higher than 50%, and in 2016 it was even 58 %. Under your policy, however, that level of protection is in free fall. That means the right people aren't attracted here. With this question, I wanted to outline that problem. You rightly said that we cannot help everyone, but you are also not providing a solution while the figures are rising. There are too many people who claim to need protection when that is not the case at all. In the meantime, almost 70% of the applications are concerned. With this question I wanted to point out, but I do not have the impression that the message has arrived. I fear that the facts and figures will make this clear. Hopefully you'll change your policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic484x.u24	Mr Secretary of State, I refer to the text of my question as tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic484x.u25	Madam President, Mr Rigot, in the current health context, Fedasil does not allow external visits to reception centres except those necessary for the operation of the centres. A protocol cannot be put in place until the start of the vaccination campaign because without vaccination, each visit represents an additional health risk. However, it is important to limit health risks in our reception centres. A remarkable work is being done to avoid the spread of covid-19 in the centres, and it must continue. Since this week we have been able to start vaccination. At present it is only a few centres, but vaccination of residents in the reception centres will continue in the coming weeks together with that of the broad population. Depending on the success of this campaign and the vaccination rate in the network, the Agency will relax certain measures. These flexibilities include the possibility of allowing external visits again. Other sectors have proceeded in the same way, such as rest homes. Visits to closed centres reserved for parliamentarians are always allowed provided that the necessary precautionary measures are respected, such as wearing a mouth mask and maintaining sufficient distance. During the period from 26 March 2020 to 12 June 2020, access to the wings was prohibited. However, the centre could be visited. Institutions with access rights are not subject to the ban on visiting closed centres. I would also like to point out that the context of closed centres is very different from that of open centres. In closed centres, we have reduced the capacity to ensure the necessary isolation places and to guarantee as much distance measurements as possible. Isolation places have also been provided in the open centres. However, the occupation could not be reduced in the same way because residents want and have the right to trade. In order to avoid infections in open centres as much as possible, it seems to me legitimate to await the progress of the vaccination campaign in order to allow non-essential outside visits again. I share Mrs Platteau's concern. The residents of the reception centres should rightly follow the covid measures, but there is certainly an impact on their mental well-being and this should not be underestimated. Consultations with psychologists via video conversation were made possible to ensure the continuity of therapy or to initiate new therapies. For the time being, we do not see an increase in the number of residents in psychotherapy, but we are certainly following this closely. After a lockdown of a shelter due to a major outbreak of covid, group calls are offered to residents who need it. Mental well-being is important to all of us. We all notice the impact of the covid measures on our mental well-being. We must also remain attentive to this in our asylum centres. Where possible, additional measures are taken to allow residents to relax in a safe way, such as wifi in the lockdown centres or in the isolation zones. In addition, outdoor activities for adults in a small group will be possible again from 8 June, in accordance with the government's outdoor plan. Furthermore, the rules outside the centres are the same as those applicable to the Belgian population as a whole. Depending on the success of the vaccination campaign and the degree of vaccination in the network, the Agency will consider whether certain measures can be relaxed, including the possibility to allow external visits again. Other sectors have operated in the same way. Hopefully we will be able to make progress quickly and we will all be done with covid. Then we can ask new questions that have nothing to do with covid.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic484x.u26	Mr Secretary of State, I must confess that I am more than surprised by your reply to the so-called indispensable visits because (...) the work of a Member and parliamentary control is indispensable for democracy and respect for it. I would therefore like to hear what a necessary visit is and (...) Is external control of the Agency in a private centre considered an indispensable visit? Beyond that, if I understand that the virus can be brought into the centre by outside visits, I also remind you that staff are entering and leaving reception centres as well as residents, fortunately for mental well-being. Secretary of State, I don't understand. I would therefore like you to give us a timing. In view of the situation in certain centres, including the Jalhay centre, for me parliamentary scrutiny must be carried out. I hope that you consider that parliamentarians also know what health measures they must follow when visiting a reception facility. I insist that it be changed and taken into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic484x.u27	Mr Secretary of State, the vaccination campaign has started and that is very good news. As a result, even there, normal life can start again soon. Certain activities in which volunteers can also participate can then be restarted. I referred in my question to the citizens' initiatives. As far as psychological counseling is concerned, you said that you started video conversations with the psychologists. Just now it was about the new recruitments you are planning in your domain. It might be good to recruit psychologists, too. It is very important for the mental well-being of many of the residents of reception initiatives that they can be supported psychologically during their procedure. I fully agree with what Mr Rigot says about Parliament's monitoring visits. I think we can really regard that as essential visits. They should actually be allowed, even during this pandemic.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic484x.u28	Madam President, Secretary of State, the text of my question, as tabled, may be included in the Integrated Report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic484x.u29	The problem raised in the Federal Ombudsman's annual report concerning applications for student residence at the diplomatic post in Cameroon relates to the fact that a large number of applications have to be processed in a short time and with limited resources during the student season. In addition, there is already little room for manoeuvre for the Foreign Affairs Office when a file is complete and meets all legal conditions. An application may be refused only in the case of fraud. Several measures have already been taken to ensure that applications for student visas for the 2021-2022 academic year at the post in Yaoundé are smooth. Firstly, there was already consultation with the FPS Foreign Affairs. If necessary, an additional consultation will be sent to Yaoundé to strengthen the team at the embassy during the peak of requests. Secondly, in April, the Foreign Affairs Department trained the diplomatic post team in Yaoundé for two weeks. The applications for student residence were an important theme there. Thirdly, the procedure has been optimised as far as possible, including through training and further alignment with the Institut Français de Cameroun (IFC), which provides, inter alia, an opinion on the authenticity of the documents submitted. The truth of these documents is important. The Institute has a very important role to play in combating fraud. For example, in 2020, for 431 files, the IFC stated in its opinion that there were suspicions of fraud involving documents. Fourthly, recently, the Foreign Affairs Office has also made the educational world aware of the possible abuses of enrolments by foreign students. You also know that one of the pillars of my policy paper is to combat abuse. I think that is very important and will continue to pay great attention to this aspect. I am therefore pleased that we have already taken some steps in this area. In the event of fraud and misuse of proceedings, the Department of Foreign Affairs may take a refusal decision and shall take into account the case-law of the Council for Foreign Affairs in the grounds of such refusals. Once the students are in Belgium, the Department of Foreign Affairs closely follows up the files so that in case of abuse can be intervened and the order can also be given to leave the territory. In 2020, 177 orders were delivered, a triple of the 57 orders in 2019. In 2018, there were 61, in 2017 33 and in 2016 53. So there is a big difference. We will continue to monitor this and, if necessary, take additional measures to prevent abuse.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic484x.u30	Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic484x.u31	Mr Secretary of State, I will address the issue of people in our territory who are passing through it as part of a transmigration. We will thus call this phenomenon, to simplify our approach and understand its concept. From this point of view, Belgium is a simple place of transit. People are regularly dropped off near motorway parking lots, or even on slopes, in the hope of getting into a truck. Thus, my municipality of Crisnée is close to that of Fexhe-le-Haut-Clocher, where a mini-campment has been established. I see my friend Hervé Rigot, who knows this problem well in his town of Waremme, fifteen kilometers from Liège and ten kilometers from Tongres. This, of course, raises a number of questions, both health and safety. I had the opportunity to question your colleague from the interior, who was able to give me some answers, but who referred me to you for further information. Mr Secretary of State, what state structures are planned to accommodate these people in better conditions than those offered by a motorway slope? The Minister of the Interior referred to the overseas teams of FEDASIL, meeting with the transmigrants in order to inform them of the appropriate procedures proposed to them. What is the exact role of these teams? How do they organize their encounters with transmigrants? What resources are available to these teams? What are the financial, administrative, legal and human resources available to local authorities to control this phenomenon? Local agents are in the front line in such circumstances. More generally, do you envisage specific reforms in this issue of transmigration, which is a daily reality in our beautiful country?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic484x.u32	Mr Goffin, I am glad to see you at last, because at the beginning of your speech we heard you without seeing you! It gave us a kind of divine feeling, as if you were the good God we heard without seeing him.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic484x.u33	Mr. Secretary of State, you must know that this is the magic of the radio! I've done it for years. The radio listens, but don't look at each other!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic484x.u34	In any case, you have a beautiful voice! I'm coming to your question. Migrants in transit are persons in irregular residence. As Secretary of State, I do not have the competence to accommodate people living in such a situation. However, I am informed of initiatives taken by civil society, with the support of other levels of power – especially at the local level. While it is obviously not up to me to determine what means are available, this reception corresponds to the competence to receive homeless people and to guarantee a dignified life for each person. As I have already mentioned on several occasions in this committee, it seems to me crucial that migrants in transit be properly informed about the possibilities of asylum, return, etc. With this goal in mind, we will therefore expand FEDASIL's Reach Out team, which I have already mentioned several times in this committee. This team is important to make a difference. Just issuing a paper to someone in transit is not always the best way to inform them. The Reach Out team still performs important work at the beginning of the chain. Other measures have already been in place for much longer but having such a team still makes a difference for the first information to be given. It has good contacts with existing initiatives in Brussels so that it can reach as many people as possible. So right now, there's a team of two people and a coordinator. Selections are underway to strengthen the team. The aim is to have, in the short term, a team available for the Belgian coast, where we know the same problem, and another team, which will be active in Wallonia. In the long term, there must be a total of fourteen active people available for the Reach Out project throughout Belgium. In addition to the enlargement of this team, the working group on transit migration within COTER has been relaunched. We're working with the police and the prosecution. The current situation was discussed and how to facilitate the process of the police, the Office for Foreigners and the prosecution service in the fight against trafficking in human beings, which unfortunately continued to be professionalized. When we see the images of the boat carrying 50 people to Coxide, 44 of Vietnamese origin and 5 of Iraqi origin, this shows us that the fight against trafficking in human beings needs to be strengthened. I hope that on this point, together with the other competent ministers, we will be able to do what is necessary because these are atrocious images that must be fought at all costs.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic484x.u35	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. I'm sure you'll understand that I'm still hungry. You can't help it if the structure of the state is what it is, but once again we are sent back to (...). I think it would be useful, and it is good that there are working groups on the problem of (...), to make an appointment. We will catalyse different skills, different desires and different needs. Indeed, this reality of people who sleep outside, even though I know that it is homelessness, affects us all. I invite you to come to my commune for (...) In Waremme, you will see other experiences too. But (...) fortunately on the highway on a daily basis. One cannot continue to act as if this problem did not exist, to look elsewhere and to think that this matter falls under another jurisdiction. That's not your case, I'm quick to say. I really insist that we should at some point have an open, clear and taboo debate on this issue, which is a daily reality.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic484x.u36	There are technical problems here in the room, which sometimes interrupts the sound at home. I think this is very disturbing for the report and the translation. Technical support is requested, but I suggest that we continue with the questions in the meantime.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic484x.u37	Madam President, Mr Secretary of State, I would like to question you. The previous question was about the extra staff and the extra budgets that are in themselves good. A second point is the Master Plan Closed Centres, which I have already questioned you about. There was no real agreement at first between you and Mr Michel on this issue. In any case, it was not entirely clear to me what the intention was, especially in terms of timing for the opening. You replied that you would try to clarify and contact Mr Michel. Mr Van Langenhove questioned you about this in plenary. You would try to keep the timing short so that the centres could open before the end of the current legislature. I haven't heard much about that. You are working on this with Mr Michel. I had a question last week, but I was unable to get into the committee because of circumstances. I had to turn them into a written question. How's the master plan coming along? Has it been approved by the government? I don't think so, because I'm keeping a pretty close eye on the agenda and the decisions. Are there gonna be extra seats or not? What about downtown in Zandvliet and that in Charleroi? Is there going to be a small center in Steenokkerzeel for prisoners at excavations where the parking is for the staff, as was announced? I would like to know more about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic484x.u38	Thank you, Mr Francken, for your question. Over the last few months, my services have worked hard to identify this with the necessary figures and to optimise the plan, on which a number of questions have already been asked. So they have not been idle. Above all, the debate must be rationalised if we are to make progress. The various infrastructure needs were identified. Discussions were also held with the partners involved in the implementation of the plan. That it takes some time, I admit. We're not going to be ice cream in the middle of the night. The intention is to make progress in this area, preferably without too much discussion. Above all, we must look at the dossier rationally. We need to see what capacity we need, how we can get to it as quickly as possible and how, despite the sometimes Belgian kafka states, we can go faster than some have initially proposed. The plan must, of course, first be discussed in the government, as you rightly said. I don't have to explain to you how that goes. Such a thing must first be properly discussed at government level. I cannot, of course, release any details at this stage, before we have properly discussed the matter at government level. In any case, I am very pleased with the preparatory work carried out by the services and I believe that this will contribute to better implementation and a better dossier, which will then be discussed in the government. Once that has happened, I will return to Parliament with it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic484x.u39	Mr Secretary of State, there's still some delay. You started in September. I understood from Mr Michel and myself that it was your intention to see the master plan approved by the government by the end of January. It's now the end of May. I take it from your words that there is still no agreement with your good colleagues on the left. I found it strange to read that your extra budgets should also serve for voluntary return guidance and for some desiderata from among others Green and Ecolo. The master plan refers to the closed centers. That's the harder approach. Then put that in one package, but no, what happened? There is a political agreement on the distribution of the money for voluntary return, the coaches and everything you want to do about it. By the way, we still have to wait for the effect of this, but the master plan is absent. I hope that the delay will not be delayed and that everyone in the government will support the creation of a package of additional places in the closed centres. We'll see, the master plan's coming up. We've been waiting a few months anyway. So there is a great deal of delay, which makes me fear that you will not be able to reach the opening in May 2024, if there are elections. Each month later means a month more delay and the timing is already very tight. That does not make me optimistic, and I believe that, as Mr Michel said, it will only be 2025 if an agreement can be reached.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic484x.u40	I'll close the incident. We won't play ping-pong anymore.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic484x.u41	Madam President, I just want to state...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic484x.u42	No, there are many other questions on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic484x.u43	I will then say in private that the return escorts work both at the DVZ and at Fedasil and that this is not just a matter of voluntary return.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic484x.u44	Mr Secretary of State, what is the latest state of affairs? What are the numbers for getting back from prison? How's that working out for you? What goes well and what doesn't? I'd like an evaluation. How do you see that? What do you intend to do in that respect? Have you already sat with Mr Van Quickenborne and the people of the prison system to keep that at a high level? You know this was one of my spearheads. I think Mrs De Block has instructed the administration that the return figures should all fall slightly, except for the criminals, who had to stay high. Of course we see that from the N-VA, because we had worked very hard on it ourselves. I assume that's your intention, too. I'd like a little more explanation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic484x.u45	Thank you, Mr Francken, for the question. You state that the return of criminal illegals from prison continues, but only voluntarily. That's not true. The forced return is not a dead end. Perhaps you have read in our communication that in 2020 some 1,156 prisoners were removed. In the corona-free year 2019 there were 1,469. That is about the same line and hopefully it will be more in the coming years. How we will do that, I will clarify immediately. How do I think I'm gonna fix this? If by that you mean how we can increase the removal rates of the detainees, it seems to me that once the corona pandemic is under control, the countries of origin will no longer impose any obstructive measures and the aviation sector will have recovered on all these matters, unfortunately, we have had very little impact on the removals as before. Consequently, the figures will be higher. At least that's what we have to do. To my frustration, however, I have to note that a number of countries of origin are calling for a medical emergency for various reasons, so that they do not always make it easy to return. That's unfortunate. We can only emphasise the importance of strong return agreements to be concluded at European level. 27 negotiations with countries of origin, that is to hurt us 27 times at European level. In the meantime, given the current restrictions, my services are pushing heaven and earth to remove maximum ex-cons. Given the reduced capacity of the closed centres, I will continue to give priority to the takeovers of detainees that cannot be removed directly from prison. That's the profile we're prioritizing. I am also fully committed to returning escorts to escort the prisoners directly, from prison, to return. Soon we will also start a procedure to recruit additional return escorts, so as to be able to put even more emphasis on this in the context of the major policy-making process. That is what we will be doing on Tuesday. This will be part of it. We need to get people directly from prison much faster in a return process. We need to get those numbers higher, covid or not.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic484x.u46	Mr Secretary of State, I remember what my point was. This is a forced removal, but one voluntarily returns because one returns without escort. It is officially called forced expulsion, but it is agreed to return without making a fuss about it. Right now, there's no return of criminals or ordinary illegals with a police escort. According to my information, it's stopped. You can improve me if you don't. There is no solution for those criminals who do not want to return, not even forced - they say njet, no way. They've all been here for over a year and a half. That's not going well. It's not just Corona. It is also very difficult with the police and the airport, I hear from good sources. There is a huge challenge for the government to prevent criminals who are released from prison after a prison sentence from getting the worst cases back on the plane and sending them back.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic484x.u47	I'm interrupting you because we don't hear part of your question. We'll ask for feedback from the technical services. Mr Van Langenhove, there has already been a problem with all the speakers, which makes us think that it is not the individual connections. Members who meet from home may easily refer to the text of their question, but the reply is of course somewhat more difficult.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic484x.u48	Madam President, once the noise problems have been resolved, I would like to ask my question. Mr Secretary of State, according to Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung, several security services take into account that illegal immigration may increase again. For example, the Austrian Ministry of Interior estimates that some 100,000 illegal immigrants in Greece and the Western Balkans are currently preparing to continue their journey towards North-West Europe. Many of them would not be eligible for refugee status, as you may know yourself. On the basis of these figures, the Austrian Minister for the Interior, Nehammer, stated that a clear signal must be sent to countries of origin and that a credible asylum policy can only be achieved by consistent repatriation of those who are not eligible for asylum, i.e. the vast majority. Such a policy, he added, starts before the EU's gates. In concrete terms, he wants to support Bosnia through the training of staff, but also through concrete support for charter flights for the return of migrants who are not eligible for some kind of residence status. Although Austria is the initiator in this matter, it does not act alone. The above-mentioned support to Bosnia, which would start from June, will take place under the Platform against Illicit Migration, in which several EU Member States participate, including Germany, Denmark, Slovenia and the Czech Republic. Mr Secretary of State, I would like an answer to the following questions. To what extent is Belgium actively involved in the Platform against Illegal Migration? Does the Belgian Government intend to take an active part in the announced initiative in Bosnia?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic484x.u49	Mr Van Langenhove, Austria held a ministerial conference on migration issues in Vienna on 22 and 23 July 2020. The conference was attended by representatives of the Member States of the Salzburg Forum, Denmark and Greece, as well as of the Balkan countries, Switzerland and the European Commission. The Vienna Declaration, which is the result of the conference, proposes the establishment of an operational platform for the eastern Mediterranean route. The aim of this Platform is to combat illegal migration along the eastern Mediterranean route and to promote better coordination of measures to combat illegal migration in the region. The primary objective is to focus on border management activities and the fight against trafficking in human beings. Bosnia and Herzegovina has indeed been identified as a priority area of action by the participating States. Belgium does not currently have ongoing projects in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is active in Albania, Kosovo, the Republic of North Macedonia and Serbia. Following the initial question addressed to Belgium during the previous legislature, there was also no follow-up question or further information from Austria. Of course, all possible initiatives taken at European level by a number of Member States will be closely monitored. We hope that this can be part of a European solution. In addition, within the existing European structures, we hope to work on the solutions that have often been found within the framework of the European Asylum and Migration Pact, which must be put in place quickly. Any initiative taken by a number of countries to try to speed up dynamics and identify problems is indeed welcome.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic484x.u50	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. I hear that you welcome this and I hope you will also support it in the official bodies where Belgium still plays an influential role. After all, there is a great deal of talk about a European (...) When countries do not confine themselves to words but act effectively, the intention must be to support them in every possible way. After all, this is a commendable initiative. You yourself said that there is a focus on sound border management and combating trafficking in human beings. We can play a supporting role in this, which we certainly need to do in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic484x.u51	Madam President, Mrs Van Camp, on 10 and 11 May 2021, I indeed took part in the European Summit with a number of important countries of origin. After all, it is important to talk to those countries as well and to develop better relations with respectful relations in both directions. We all know the importance of the read mission agreements for the European Union, and we know that it is a win-win situation if those countries of origin maintain a good relationship with the European Union. Everyone's gonna come out stronger than that. In their conclusion, all countries argued that cooperation on return and reintegration is a key element of migration management policies. The level of cooperation varies, and in particular the covid crisis has unfortunately not produced a great deal of cooperation. Another conclusion, which you may be interested in, is that both European and African countries see migration as a transnational phenomenon which cannot be fully managed by individual states, but which requires a joint effort by the international community. We are not aiming for a migration stop, but for better migration management. Migration needs to be better monitored, and this requires a holistic approach based on partnerships, taking into account the priorities and needs of the countries concerned. An important common priority for European and African countries is to fight against trafficking in human beings and trafficking in human beings by tackling criminal business models and networks. This is of the utmost importance in order to protect the lives and fundamental rights of migrants. In addition, there is the common objective of intensifying information campaigns, for example through social media, but also by involving diaspora communities in destination countries. Correct information on the opportunities for recognition and life in the European Union is a fundamental pillar to prevent illegal migration, and thus also to ensure the security of migrants. Finally, the European Asylum and Migration Pact deals with safe and legal migration pathways. This concerns, for example, circular migration or study migration. These routes should be tackled in a more rational and better way. On 11 June 2021, the European Commission will present its plans for talent partnership. I was invited by the Commission to speak there, together with the European colleagues. As far as the return cooperation of the countries present at the conference is concerned, I can give the following overview. At European level, the Commission was given the mandate to negotiate a Readmission Agreement with Algeria, Morocco and Tunisia. These negotiations are ongoing. Negotiations have started with Egypt at Benelux level. The Netherlands is leading those conversations. With Mauritania there is a 2018 MoU. With Morocco there is the 2016 bilateral MoU, whose implementation leaves a lot to be desired. There were a number of elements that indicated that it was unfortunately only temporary and focused only on identification, not on return. I think we really need to work on that. Discussions have also been launched with Tunisia to amend the 2018 MoU. For Niger and Senegal, the negotiation of a MoU is on the planning of the Foreign Affairs Office. As you can see, we are in the process of strengthening the right relations with many countries. We hope this works. We all know how hard it is, but it can be difficult. Sometimes things have to be done in a difficult way. Well, that's just the way it is. As regards visa levers, in March 2021 the Council gave the Commission the mandate, in accordance with Article 25a of the Visa Code, to engage in diplomatic talks with a selection of priority countries. On the basis of the outcome of these discussions, the Commission may propose visa sanctions to the Council. In this committee, I have said a few times that the Commission has clearly shown ambition. After all, it was immediately communicated to the Member States that we can expect such proposals by the summer. The Commission's evaluation report and the list of priority countries are both classified as confidential. That doesn't make any sense, since it's about diplomatic relations. This prevents me from giving more details of the substance of the consequences of the Commission's discussions. But I hope to be able to deliver concrete results very quickly, which have been achieved at European level. That could help us all.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic484x.u52	Mr Secretary of State, I am very disappointed in your answer. You often use the words I hope and we will see in your answer. Also in this answer. You're hoping there'll be chords. At the start of the ride you often make very strong statements about such a problem. You say that you will enforce these readmission agreements, that you have never travelled so much or seen countries as before. If it doesn't work out, you'll have sanctions in hand. Every time we question you about this in Parliament, you have a lot of words to say, but actually no concrete results. No readmission agreements have yet been concluded. There is still no solution to this lack of return, which we discussed earlier in this committee, and later on, and which we will discuss. That's very disappointing. You always extend the solution further for you. Hopefully that solution will still be found, and I would certainly like to give you that credit. We will certainly continue to follow it up, but this way I have no confidence in it at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic484x.u53	Thank you, Mrs Platteau, for your question. I hear from MPs that I would have traveled a lot. Because of covid I haven't seen many airplanes up close in the last few months. Anyway, we're talking about El Salvador here. The assessment of applications for international protection is a competence of the Commissioner-General for Refugees and stateless persons at first instance and of the Council for Foreign Affairs on appeal. Both are by law certain independent bodies. It is therefore not for me to express my opinion on the assessment of applications for international protection by those bodies. I have already mentioned a number of times here in committee that we are all pleased that both the CGMS and the RVV are independent. The need for international protection does not increase or decrease depending on the governments and the parties represented in it. Independence is therefore very important and must ensure that the right processes are carried out. However, I can give you some clarification as to how the CGIS assesses the requests. The degree of protection depends on a number of factors. It is not just about the situation in the country of origin. There are many other factors, including the individual situation and the profiles of the people coming to Belgium. The need for international protection shall be assessed on the basis of the definitions of a refugee or the status of subsidiary protection laid down in international and European standards. International and European standards have also been highlighted very prominently in our policy statement and in the policy paper. The importance of international and European law is paramount. The precise assessment shall also take into account national and international case law. The evolution of the degree of protection is, of course, difficult to estimate, as it depends on a number of factors. I find it difficult to anticipate which persons in Belgium will apply for international protection. For example, when it comes to families or large groups with all about the same profile, the number of refusals will suddenly increase relatively. It is always very important to take that into account, because that can sometimes explain the figures. On voluntary return, the person concerned indicates that he wishes to return and therefore estimates that a return is possible. After the assessment by the asylum authorities, there is, of course, a suspicion that there is no real risk of return. In the event of forced return, however, there is always an assessment, inter alia on the basis of Article 3 of the ECHR, to determine whether there is no other real risk other than the risk assessed in the asylum procedure. We have already made it very clear that Article 3 of the ECHR is very important and must be respected. We do and we will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic484x.u54	Mr Secretary of State, it is of course very important that requests for protection are dealt with by an independent body. It was, of course, remarkable that the number of people from El Salvador who received refugee status varied so much from one year to the next. You say that an individual assessment is being made, but in the debate on border procedures you stressed that we need to look at who will or will not be eligible for asylum on the basis of the country from which they come. That is, of course, contrary to your statement that every person must have the opportunity to apply for asylum and be able to go through an objective procedure in order to get an answer to his or her question of protection. You say that on a voluntary return people themselves estimate that this return is possible and that there is no real risk, but they have little choice, because they have been given an order to leave our territory. In this sense, there is some pressure to return to a country such as El Salvador, where it is politically unstable, where crime is strong and where there is a lot of violence.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic484x.u55	Mr Secretary of State, following our various exchanges in committee, I hear that you want to maintain a firm and strict stance on the regularisation of persons in a situation of irregular residence - which I can sometimes deplore - but what I respect. That is why I wanted to ask you today about a perhaps less controversial aspect: the regularisation of people working in a sector in need. Several associations, such as Samenlevingsopbouw, point out in fact that, according to the current logic followed by your department - i.e. the fact that the residence permit is renewable only if the person is not a burden for the Belgian State - regularised persons are treated as migrant workers, and therefore the regularization which initially has a humanitarian objective, now has a more economic objective. This is also the position advocated by the office of the Brussels Minister of Employment, who wants to find a solution both for employers who wish to have a skilled workforce, but also for some of the people in an irregular situation who wish to integrate into our country. Mr Secretary of State, what is your position on the regularization of persons working in a labour-intensive sector? Don't you think it's time to stop turning the ball between the federal and the regions and finally look at real reform, such as the single permit procedure as proposed by Minister Clerfayt's office? Are you willing to work with federated entities and different stakeholders to find solutions and create a framework that would allow everyone to benefit from regularization, at least on an economic basis?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic484x.u56	Mr De Smet, in your question, you are addressing two subjects which we have already had the opportunity to discuss on several occasions in the committee. On the one hand, there is access to the single permit from an irregular stay; on the other hand, humanitarian regularisation on the basis of employment. You are right to confuse both in your question. I, too, believe that the authorization of a single application for a permit from an irregular stay can de facto be compared with a regularisation on the basis of a job. I am, of course, always open to consultations with the various firms, also with Mr Clerfayt's cabinet. I don't think we can say that we turned the ball over, as you mentioned in your question. Besides, I think I've always been very clear. I have already communicated it on several occasions, but I will always clarify it, my services and I will examine each request for humanitarian regularization individually and make a decision within the framework of our discretion. No substantive legal criteria will be established in the future. This is also relevant for employment criteria in a labour-intensive sector. What is really most important to me, I have made it clear and I will continue to do so, is vulnerability. In granting regularization on a humanitarian basis, vulnerability should be given priority and given priority. As I have said on several occasions, it is not because we have three master's degrees and we work in a certain sector that we have a greater right than anyone else to stay here when we are in an irregular situation. It is really important in my opinion to focus on this point. You have also made it clear, I may sometimes be firm in everything that is regularised, but that is for a very specific reason. I was recently discussing some interesting local projects in Antwerp. Persons hosting refugees seeking regularization were trying to accompany and assist them. These actors themselves pointed out that it was important to train the people who applied for it because, too often, they thought, that at the beginning of the legislature, there would be a collective regularization or that one would regularise on the basis of a particular criterion. It's especially sad for these people to hear things wrong. However, as I have already said, there is a legal labour potential available in Belgium which must be used to the full. This has already been discussed in one of the previous questions. This requires working on different policies such as work, education, equal opportunities, etc. I want to create a favourable framework at the federal level so that applications for a single permit for foreigners who apply from a legal residence are processed in a transparent, timely and efficient manner. I think we are taking important steps in this area, including the one-stop shop that has been signed in total by twelve ministers, including myself, which proves to you that at the institutional level there is still work to be done. I would also like to make it clear that I do not agree with you at all when you say that humanitarian regulation would rather have an economic objective. By definition, this is not the case. As I said, the aspect of vulnerability is important to me. The humanitarian regularization procedure is an exceptional procedure through which I have been able to use my discretion to grant a right of residence in exceptional individual humanitarian situations. There are several other procedures in our legislative arsenal that have an economic objective, such as economic permit and, in the future, job search for students from third countries for a year. We've already discussed it. Previously, when you graduated in Belgium and you didn't have a job the next day, you had to leave the territory. There, however, the opportunity was given to do a job search for a year. I would also like to point out that persons who meet all the conditions of the single permit and who correctly apply for it, in accordance with the legal procedure, will also be granted a single permit. The rule is that the application for a permit is made from abroad and, in specific cases, the application can be made from a legal stay in Belgium, but never from an irregular stay. This will continue to apply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic484x.u57	Secretary of State, your answer has the merit of clarity and honesty. We do not agree, so we are not going to procrastinate further. I continue to believe that regularisation criteria are needed. That is why we have introduced a bill in this committee on the subject. You implicitly admit yourself that there are criteria, in a way, from the moment when the vulnerability of people is accepted as a criterion. This means that despite your discretion, even informal criteria apply. I think we're missing something in the connection between jobs in short supply and one-off permits. But it is you who are in power and that is also democracy. We will continue to question and monitor what can be done, while commenting on your policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic484x.u58	Mr De Smet, first of all, I would like to thank you for your reply to the previous question, which shows a great deal of respect. As Secretary of State, we never have the last word, but since you have a second question, that allows me to clarify it to you. As far as your question is concerned, I am well aware of article 94/1 of the Act of 15 December 1980. Although I was not yet a member of the House at that time, I followed the discussion through our colleague Nahima Lanjri, whom you are familiar with and who is at the origin of the inclusion of this article. I fully support this principle and have already indicated on several occasions that I would like to see greater transparency in this regard. It is true that no reports were published for 2019. I myself have only been Secretary of State since October 2020. So I can only talk about my own management. I immediately instructed the Aliens Office to prepare the 2020 progress report. It provides an overview of the service's activities in the form of statistical data and explanatory material. The aim is to submit this report to the House before the end of the parliamentary year, so it is very soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic484x.u59	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for this clear and comprehensive answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic484x.u60	Mr Secretary of State, I have previously asked you orally and in writing about the role of private actors in the reception network. As you have already noticed, I am not very enthusiastic about this if it is not absolutely necessary. Meanwhile, you have communicated the closing of the center in Kalmthout. This has been published extensively in the press, especially in the French language so far, for example in the article in Le Vif. Firstly, what are the precise reasons for the closure of the centre in Kalmthout? Did the strike occur at Fedasil's request? Or at G4S' request? Does it happen, for example, that the first floor of the reception centre could not be used, so that the operation for G4S was not profitable? Secondly, following a recent written question from me on the operation of reception centres by private actors, you replied that no cost-efficiency analysis could yet be carried out on the role of private actors. Now I read that you said that shelters with private players are much more expensive. I wonder, of course, what exactly that is based on. Can you tell me more about those average higher costs? How much does (...) private actors cost, and how exactly does that relate to the others? Is it possible to give the data of the various private actors separately? How come there doesn't seem to have been a thorough cost-efficiency analysis, although the Court of Auditors has been asking for it since 2017? Thirdly, you answered an earlier question from me in committee on 30 October 2020: the agency wants to make the reception network more dynamic and more flexible... of private actors in the management of buffer sites. That was very disturbing for me back then. A call on the private sector can be understood during a necessary search for quick solutions, while paying well above the normal market price, but it is precisely the aim of the buffer system to avoid rushing. Have you changed your mind about this since you have acknowledged in the press that private buffer spaces are not necessarily flexible? Fourthly, in Kalmthout, G4S had to use infrastructure from a private owner. If private operators were to be used, could the operator be obliged to first use or investigate public infrastructure? Is it also not possible to impose strict requirements for cooperation with private owners, such as permits, with which the operator will then cooperate? In case of non-time delivery, not only for Kalmthout, but also for Etterbeek and Liège, were delays fines imposed, as recorded? Then what are the fines collected used for?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic484x.u61	Mr Secretary of State, a continuing relationship at odds between G4S and the municipal administration has led to the end of the shelter in Kalmthout. Because the municipality, and later the province, refused to grant a license for a fire escape, the center could not be extended from 33 to 100 places. That stalemate made you agree with G4S to terminate the contract. There are also serious costs involved. After all, the building was completely renovated and put in order only six months ago. This instability does not benefit anyone, especially the families who stayed there. In the past, you have said on several occasions that you wanted to make cooperation with the commercial sector structural, but recently, for the first time, you spoke critically about commercial cooperation in the media. You said that it made it more difficult to relate to cities and municipalities and that on average they are also a little more expensive. You did not mention that it also has serious risks for a quality service and therefore for asylum seekers. In addition, you indicated that you would like to rest in the reception network by means of the buffer places. Do you know more about the motives of the municipality of Kalmthout? Is this about justified grievances with the construction and operation of G4S? What will happen to the building in question? May we conclude that you will review the bets of private players? We are (...) desirable for the reception of asylum seekers. Hence, a stable reception network does not exclude the possibility of cooperation with commercial players at all. The closure of a shelter such as in Kalmthout not only has organisational consequences for Fedasil, but also has a serious impact on the residents of the center. They must move from day to day to another centre, often in questionable circumstances and with significant consequences for children. This is not an isolated case. All too often, the people who are injured have to move from one side of Belgium to the other and (...) go to school. For children, adaptation to their (...) effort (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic484x.u62	Mrs Daems, the same problem arises. A lot of your question is missing. Is it possible to refer to your written question? After all, we have not been able to hear part of your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic484x.u63	I had to think about the program The Ideal World because I think they could have fun filling up the voids that we sometimes heard here. However, I will not use my creativity for that. It is true that a fire escape was needed for the shelter in Kalmthout for the first floor of the building could be used. However, the application for a permit was first refused by the municipal administration and subsequently by the county administration. I have to establish that with you. As a result, the maximum capacity was so limited that it was no longer feasible or desirable for both G4S and Fedasil to keep the reception centre open. The former inhabitants of the reception centre in Kalmthout were therefore assigned to centres in the same language region. Families with children were assigned to shelters in the region of Antwerp, except families whose right to care ended or families with specific medical needs, which is of course self-evident. These people were assigned an adapted place. According to the phasing-out principles, school children are moved as much as possible during school holidays. As this was not possible at the closure of the reception centre in Kalmthout, Fedasil took this into account in the order of the allocations. Families with school children were finally moved so that children who could no longer go to the same school could say goodbye to their classmates. In this way, Fefasil has tried to take the best possible account of the interests of the child. I don't have a visual on the owner's plans with the building. It is up to the owner himself to communicate about it or not. With regard to Mr Segers' proposal to impose an obligation on private operators to first use public infrastructure or to investigate it, I can say that Fedasil's consultation with the Directors of the Buildings shows that the heritage of the Regie rarely consists of buildings designed for housing. Having the necessary licences is now part of the administrative part of the specifications. They will be checked for the use of the site. For Kalmthout, Etterbeek and Liège no delay fines were imposed. The opening of the centres was delayed, but this was due to circumstances that could not be fully allocated to the private partner. Fedasil has therefore sought consultation. This does not mean that the legal elements available to safeguard the proper performance of the contracts are not used. The essence of the dynamic and flexible reception network for me is that Fedasil must have sufficient buffering places to cope with fluctuations in the necessary reception capacity, as Mrs Daems has already pointed out. As this has not been the case in the past, Fedasil has had to turn to private partners on several occasions in order to achieve additional reception capacity as a matter of urgency. Indeed, I have no problem in principle with the fact that buffering places would be partially offered by private partners. More important than anyone who offers it is that the places are cheap, quality and flexible. Those elements are important to us. We are good drivers, and so we have to take into account the cost of the business, without compromising quality. The minimum standards should, of course, be respected by everyone. Indeed, the previous public tender shows that the private partners are on average more expensive and that the contractual agreements often make it difficult to get a good understanding with the municipalities and cities. To learn from this experience, Fedasil will make a comprehensive evaluation of the past cooperation with the private actors to draw the necessary lessons from it. It is unwise to declare a moratorium for this. We must be able to respond flexibly to the needs, think of the events in 2015. The right measures must be taken at the right moments. We work with some kind of insurance principle. You may have read that some places in our shelter network are being phased out, while another part will be used as buffer capacity, a kind of insurance principle, so as not to have to quickly build an asylum centre somewhere and involve a private partner, sometimes at odds with local government. We have a basic philosophy, but let's not make it a dogma and see that we mainly take quality, cost and flexibility into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic484x.u64	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your comprehensive answer, which I shall first and foremost read. With the majority in the coalition agreement, we are firmly in favour of a system of buffering, which I am particularly pleased with. In this way, unlike the past, there is no need for haste anymore. In the past, the least rippling places had to be opened or closed, with all the costs, including social costs, associated with them. In our opinion, there is simply no need for private operators in a buffering system. What Fedasil is doing with the shelter partners is doing better. The years of expertise and know-how are with Fedasil and the reception partners. With other operators, we come up with expertise that can be built up over and over again, worse services and higher prices.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic484x.u65	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. You say that good governance is important and that costs and, of course, quality are important. That's where the problem lies. Among other things, the situation in Jalhay shows just what risks are being taken vis-à-vis refugees by going into business with a commercial player. In your policy statement, you insisted on creating a stable reception network with buffer sites. The question arises as to whether a stable reception network is possible with the involvement of commercial players. What happened in Kalmthout is yet another example of yojo policy and lost money.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic484x.u66	Mr Secretary of State, I have some questions about the audit of the asylum services that were ordered and which is also included in the government agreement. I know the Foreign Affairs Department close by. Many audits have been carried out in the past. Major audits of certain specific services have taken place in recent years: the asylum department, the entry and residence department, the return services, the visa section, identification etc., either by an external audit firm, the Court of Auditors or by another body. The external services of the Foreign Affairs Office are checked weekly by NGOs, who are allowed to visit in all transparency to the closed centres. Among other things in Steenokkerzeel, Vottem and Bruges, national and international NGOs regularly visit to verify the situation on the ground. They check whether everything is going properly, whether things are not happening that go against the law and whether people are being treated in a humane manner. That is what is happening in our prisons, and it is right to do so. I am convinced that our closed centres function much better than some of our prisons. That is my personal conviction after some years of experience. I do know where the requirement for an audit comes from, because when I was Secretary of State, that demand was often formulated by the opposition at the time, which is now in the majority. From the left corner there is often a request for an audit, because the Foreign Affairs Office is not really trusted. That is a fundamental problem of confidence, which I regret, but I can only identify it and it is not getting any better. The audit is now in the government agreement and you ordered it, Mr Secretary of State. What exactly is the purpose of this audit and what will come out of it, since there is already an audit whose recommendations have not been carried out? What exactly do you hope to achieve? What's that gonna cost? What are the design and timing of the audit? I will conclude, Madam President, but I will reply in a few moments.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic484x.u67	Madam President, Secretary of State, the framework has been set. So I'll be pretty brief. What concerns me in the audit is that, as far as I understand it, the communication has been largely oriented towards return procedures or family reunification. However, as I had already pointed out to you in the general policy statements, we are awaiting an audit which covers all the structures responsible for asylum and migration policies, the A to Z procedure and the qualitative aspect of the whole system. Mr. Secretary of State, could you specify the scope of this audit? Is it just about the points I've been able to see in the communications? Have you considered the qualitative aspect and not just the organizational point of view? I had already drawn your attention, at the time, to this necessity. What is the timetable adopted today for the continuation of this mission? Depending on the allocation procedures, how long will the outcome of this audit be available? Here are my questions for today. I know that many answers will come to us again next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic484x.u68	Madam President, Secretary of State, we recently learned that you will soon appoint an external audit firm to examine your own department. Earlier, it became known that the Council of Ministers approved an additional investment of EUR 50 million for Asylum and Migration. This would mainly involve the recruitment of additional staff. If we understood correctly, about a quarter more staff would be recruited. That is a decision that will not be regretted in the Foreign Office. The fact that you want to drastically shorten the asylum procedures is also very much to be welcomed. This is a good thing, for both asylum seekers, the services concerned and taxpayers. I have a number of questions about that. You have already been able to verify the operation of and the pain points in the various services in the last eight months. What were your main findings, both with regard to the defects and the points of improvement? An audit was already carried out eight years ago. Apparently, that wouldn't have been done for all these years. What were the most striking conclusions and to what extent are they still topical today? You also mentioned that for some problems you would not wait for the audit to resolve them. What are the specific problems involved? When can we expect a solution to this problem? To what extent would it be advisable to wait in part for the audit announced when the promised EUR 50 million is spent? How much of the EUR 50 million will you already spend, or have already been committed? What specific initiatives do we have planned for this amount in order of magnitude?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic484x.u69	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. I have, of course, prepared an answer here. However, I would like to point out that sometimes it is forgotten that different services operate in the asylum and migration chain. Looks like the Foreign Office is the only service in the asylum chain. It's about the Foreign Affairs Department, about Fedasil, about the CGVS and about the RVV. It is important to emphasise that we are looking at a chain approach. We intend effectively to make necessary personnel investments, because we very often look at what politics expects the services to do. We can expect a lot from them, but we must strengthen them in the right way. Otherwise, many expectations can be met, but we are facing problems. I will then come to my prepared answer. More specifically, there will be an external audit. As I said, this audit will focus not only on asylum, but also on migration. This should not be surprising because the audit was announced in the government agreement. In my policy note, I stressed that this was a top priority for me. Immediately after my appointment as Secretary of State, I began to implement this audit. This audit is absolutely not a vote of no confidence in my services. It is a pity that some people try to frame them, because that is certainly not the case, as has just been stressed. Politics expects a great deal from the services and the public hopes that this can be achieved. If the services cannot work together properly and are not properly strengthened, you should not be surprised that they cannot deliver on the promises of politics. The operation of the different asylum and migration services should be optimised. Cooperation between services needs to be improved. In this way, the operation of the entire chain must be improved. The intention is to strengthen the operation. This does not mean that nothing good is happening at the moment, that the staff are not doing their job. On the contrary, they are doing essential work today in particularly difficult circumstances. Our people are doing very well, essential work, covid or not. There are some things that can be improved. In the six months I have been Secretary of State, I have, by the way, come to know the people I've been in contact with as committed, hardworking people. We will invest in these services and employees in a historic way, because they do need them. We are not working lightly in this process. Various discussions have been underway on this subject since autumn 2020. Comments from external parties such as MYRIA and Ombudsmen were taken into account. Of course, close contacts continued with the Aliens Office, CGRA, Fedasil and the CCE. There is now a negotiating award procedure under Article 38 of the Law of 17 June 2016 on Public Procurement. Applicants must have sufficient expertise to participate, given the significant scope of this audit. They have 30 days to apply. For the time being, I have no idea what would have been presented. Because of the principle of equality, we will only be able to access it after the deadline for submission, which is July 6. The specifications shall contain detailed information on the functioning of the services, determine the award criteria and shall reflect the detailed research questions. The specifications are not yet public at this stage. Price formation is also determined by the negotiations. In order not to influence them, I cannot, of course, go into the cost. The specific research questions are included in the specifications. I can tell you that the research questions are divided into two parts. Firstly, there are the overarching questions for all services. This section focuses on the chain approach that we consider important, on personnel policy and on the digitisation of all our services, including a global approach to digitalisation. The second part raises a number of specific questions for each service. These include the internal organisation, the communication, the exchange of information with the citizen or the migrant, and the optimization of residence procedures. The audit itself must be completed within 10 months. I expect the results by next summer. If required, the auditors may also establish contacts with external parties. With regard to the audit of eight years ago, a distinction can be made between an audit of the work processes of the Office of Foreigners, the CGRA and the CCE and a computer audit of the asylum chain. For the first audit of the work processes, an in-depth SIS analysis was conducted with a comprehensive framework and proposals for improvement. Work processes have proven to be very effective and efficient. This was also reflected in the international comparative analysis that took place. Most improvement projects have been carried out within the departments themselves. With respect to this part of the audit, it is apparent that some of the findings have been implemented. However, the findings and proposals resulting from the IT audit were not taken into account at all. The lack of extensive digitisation makes working efficient difficult. This leads to far too long procedures. At that point of pain, the audit hammered out eight years ago. I have therefore requested and received additional funding to implement a transparent and effective migration policy, as the government agreement also determines. For dealing with some problems, I will wait for the audit. However, the structural shortage of staff is already clear. We must invest in this today, and we are already doing so today. We cannot wait for that. Digitalisation will also be invested, partly with additional resources and partly with the money from the relay plan. Finally, EUR 6.8 million has already been allocated to strengthening the asylum chain. EUR 11 million will be invested in projects within Fedasil, including activation and the acquisition of competence. EUR 11.5 million is earmarked for the further development of the upcoming return policy. There is also EUR 5.3 million for the better organisation of migration policy as a whole. In addition, a policy buffer is foreseen for the coming years to anticipate the results of the audit and to assess what is happening with those results.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic484x.u70	Madam President, Secretary of State, you have said and repeated on several occasions that you have noticed that hard work is being done and that you have respect for it. You clearly say that the audit should not be seen as a vote of no confidence towards the staff of the asylum services, the Foreign Office or other services. That's an important signal. The problem has a very long history and it is therefore important that you also express that signal. I hope you will certainly continue to do so. After all, this also creates mistrust. This mistrust has a whole history, which also has to do with the previous legislature and its term of office. I have been following migration policy here in the Chamber for almost 20 years now. The mistrust has to do with constant accusations from a certain angle, which sometimes gets on the nerves of a lot of officials. I'm sure you've heard that, too. I must confess that I was unhappy with your statement that the DVZ must be more than a printing company of orders to leave the territory. In my personal opinion, that is not your best statement. You also know that the DVZ is more. Personally, I found that statement to be short-sighted and disrespectful to the staff. I'd like to request the specifications of the audit. That should be possible. That specifications will be published. Perhaps the specifications can be delivered to all the committee members so that we can go through it quietly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic484x.u71	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your detailed answer once again. As you said and Mr Franken relayed it, this is not a question of trust or mistrust. Indeed, I have worked for more than twenty years at Fedasil and I know how much there are, behind these institutions, committed and motivated men and women, who expect only one thing: to obtain even more effective tools tomorrow to have a procedure of quality, humane, just and faster. I believe that everyone expects a faster management of the asylum procedure because it demonstrates respect for the beneficiaries and also guarantees an economic reduction in the costs incurred in the reception of applicants for international protection. These are strong and human signals. Of course, I am pleased to have these conclusions. I have no doubt that this will be an opportunity to have an even more efficient and effective administration for the beneficiaries and for a better well-being of the staff who, I am sure, are and will remain motivated. Like all others, and as always, I will be attentive to the progress that has been made in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic484x.u72	There are, of course, several links in the migration approach chain, but my group sees the difficulties in funding above all in the Foreign Affairs Office and in the return policy. You may not be surprised, Mr Secretary of State. I am not saying that this audit is a vote of no confidence in the services, but it seems that it is some sort of diversion to buy time again. The reign is progressing, but your very many promises are not yet or hardly being fulfilled. The audit should be completed by next summer, but this should not, of course, delay the many pain points that can already be resolved and the many improvements that can already be made, even if those pain points and improvements are sensitive to your colleagues in the government who belong to the open border lobby. I look forward to the audit's specifications being available to us as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic484x.u73	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. I also thank you for incorporating, as announced, the reflections of civil society and MYRIA into yours. As a former director of this body, I would point out that this audit must be put at the service of the institutions concerned, in particular the Office for Foreigners. We all know how difficult it is to work in this sector in technical, legal and human terms, because we are subjected to various pressures – including that of public opinion. For us... (sighs)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic484x.u74	Mr De Smet, we have not heard the end of your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic484x.u75	Forgive me, Madam President. I said this audit should help them, not judge them. That's all I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic484x.u76	Madam President, Mr. Secretary of State, I was recently questioning the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mrs. Wilmès, about the recent universal periodic review of the Human Rights Council, where the Minister spoke on behalf of the federal government and the federated entities. The published reports of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR) and stakeholders are challenging. In addition to family reunification procedures made more complex or impossible due to the covid-19 pandemic, there is some concern in these reports about the interests of children and the conditions for their care. The Committee was also concerned at reports that a number of unaccompanied and separated children had been subjected to various forms of ill-treatment, including physical violence by local police officers, illegal detention for more than 24 hours and the lack of systematic referral to the Tutelles Service and other child protection authorities. Mr. Secretary of State, several recommendations have been considered by the Human Rights Committee as well as civil society associations to combat such phenomena, for example, to encourage coordination and collaboration between the various actors involved in and with children affected by the refugee crisis, to end the detention of families with children in deportation proceedings and to establish in law the principle of non-detention of children for immigration-related purposes. Mr. Secretary of State, have you read these reports? What are your conclusions? In addition to the measures we already know about stopping the detention of children, how do you intend to guarantee the best interests of children and comply with the recommendations of the Human Rights Committee? With regard to the recommendation for coordination and collaboration with the relevant actors, have you met or intend to meet with the Federal Ombudsman, the Kinderrechtencommissariaat and the General Delegate for the Rights of the Child to identify possible avenues for avoiding any subsequent detention of minors who are refugees also in law and not simply in practice?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic484x.u77	Madam President, Mr De Smet, the universal periodic review of the Human Rights Council took place this week. My services and collaborators have participated with colleagues from various federal departments and federated entities and strategic units in the preparation and formulation of answers to the questions asked. In this context, I have been informed of the recommendations and reports. I have taken note of the various recommendations and we have also noted that we are already implementing a lot of things entirely or in part in our policies at the national level, for example the implementation of the best interests of the child in migration policy or the federal government's commitment not to detain minors in a closed centre. As you know, the federal government made this commitment in a firm and clear manner from the beginning of the legislature. I have already had an interview with the Kinderrechtencommissariat and the General Delegate for Children's Rights of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation. I have also received contributions regarding the best interests of the child and appropriate housing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic484x.u78	Mr Secretary of State, thank you. You answered me, except on the point of your coordination with the Kinderrechtencommissariat and the General Delegate for the Rights of the Child. But I guess you'll have an opportunity to do it later. Or this collaboration goes without saying to you – which would obviously be even better.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic484x.u79	Secretary of State, a few days ago we learned of the suicide of a young Kurdish asylum seeker from Syria. Arrived a few months ago, Mohamed had been welcomed to a Fedasil centre before being redirected a few months later to an ILA, waiting for a response to his asylum application. After having received a negative decision, the young Kurde had been sent to an open return centre which he decided to leave before killing himself. Although such an act is often motivated by many factors and it is not appropriate to make direct links between our asylum policy and such a tragedy, we cannot, however, miss out on certain questions in the stages of the asylum procedure and especially in the psychological support of those exiled to us, especially since the psychological state of young Mohamed was known to services. Mr Secretary of State, given the psychological impact that exile can have and the difficulties of migration, what are the psychological supports available to residents of asylum-seeking centres? How does the psychological follow-up of persons transferred to ILA take place? Is this follow-up the responsibility of Fedasil or CPAS? Do you consider that the budget and staff are now sufficient to perform quality work? On the other hand, we know that waiting times are still too long for many asylum seekers and you have the will to reduce them. Various reasons explain these delays. It's obviously not your legacy. These processing times have a significant impact on the mental health of residents. What is the situation with regard to processing time? Can you already project a prospect of reducing this processing time?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic484x.u80	Mr Secretary of State, on 28 April Mohamed chose to leave his life. He had fled the war in Iraq and ended up in our country after a hellish trip. He wanted to live a peaceful life here, but he wasn't allowed to. After several rejections of his asylum applications and without a family to return to, he saw no way out. I'm very indignant about this. So outrage is in place here. How can we allow it to come to this? How can one turn their backs on a young man without a family and leave him to his fate? With these questions, a lot of people are struggling. Mr Secretary of State, in your policy statement you promised to speed up asylum procedures. What steps have been taken to this end and when will it be possible to see the result? As far as the statistics on Iraqi asylum applications are concerned, (...) Is there sufficient psychosocial support for asylum seekers? ... provide a full-time psychologist, social worker, doctor and nurse for a certain number of asylum seekers?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic484x.u81	Colleagues, that someone chooses to put an end to his life can only sadden me, of course. I can only express my condolences to the family and friends of the man. Applicants for international protection are faced with a period of uncertainty pending a decision. Protection claimants, who received a decision in 2020, had to wait an average of 13 months for a response. An appeal procedure means an additional waiting period of seven months. I have already indicated this in an answer to a previous question during this committee. Unfortunately, I have to repeat this again and that is really why we want to shorten this period as quickly as possible. The Council of Ministers therefore decided on 23 April 2021 to release the necessary appropriations to strengthen the asylum institutions. Together with the services, I will see how we can recruit additional staff as soon as possible. As far as possible, Fedasil and its reception partners are trying to ensure that every resident who needs psychological guidance is actually given it. The number of hours of consultation by a doctor depends on the number of residents and the problems the residents face. This is regularly evaluated by the region and the reception structure. There are standards for the number of nurses per reception structure based on the number of residents and the number of medical places. Only in the registration centre and in the observation and orientation centres for unaccompanied minors there are internal psychologists at work. All other reception structures work with external psychologists. Residents can go to a psychologist for a check-up or therapy. The number of sessions for individual or family therapy depends on the needs and changing mental health of the resident. Residents may also participate in therapeutic activities organized either in the reception centre or outside. The organisation of psychological follow-up in an ILA is the responsibility of the CPAS. In 2020, 864 Iraqis applied for international protection. Leaving aside the admissibility decision, the protection rate for Iraqis was 46 %. For Syrians, by the way, that was 96 %. In any case, the covid pandemic also very often means a discussion point for my department. I really want to make it clear that it is important to get out of the covid situation as quickly as possible both at the global level and in our asylum centres. Indeed, I do not want to establish a link between each other, nor do I want to express myself on a particular case. However, it should be pointed out that, in order to have good psychological support, supervision for each person is necessary. And, in this case, for the mental well-being of each resident, it is important to be able to get out of the carcan as quickly as possible of the rather extraordinary measures. Every effort is made to speed things up. I hope for a quick outcome, because it is really important for all the people involved.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic484x.u82	Mr. Secretary of State, I would like to join you very much. Of course, the situation of the covid-19 has complicated the psychological and mental experience of the residents in the asylum-seeking centres. Even before that, for being very often a volunteer in Fedasil centers, we really see how much waiting and boredom turn these people off – turn off their souls. I have been in contact with migrants who were coming with all the will to want to integrate into projects. Over the course of months or years, we could really see that these people were dying out. Beyond psychological support, I believe that there is a real debate to be held about the activities offered to those present in the Fedasil centres. Why not open up the possibility of some training – not just for people with a high level of knowledge – perhaps manual or technical training? If people later want to go home, they might as well use their time here. [[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic484x.u83	At the level of the ILA centres, psychological support must be provided. Mohammed went to the ILA center. You know how underfunded municipalities and CPAS are. I think there really is a thought to be given to being able to support the CPAS in this area. Madam President, excuse me for overflowing with my reply time!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic484x.u84	I propose that all members of the committee read the report carefully so that you can pass on any corrections or additions. Then we can work on it. The sound goes away sometimes and we can't solve the problem. That is very unfortunate for the translators and the staff who make the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic484x.u85	I would like to emphasise the importance of speeding up asylum procedures. If asylum seekers are in dubio for many years and can do little because they do not know whether or not they can build a sustainable life here, it has a profound impact on the mental well-being of a human being. Unfortunately, the suicide that we are talking about is not an isolated case either. It is not the first time an asylum seeker has committed suicide after facing our asylum policy. This tragic death also shows that the framework and psychological support are simply not enough and that much more needs to be done. I follow you, Mr Secretary of State, that the coronapandemic is really cutting in, also psychologically. I hope with you that we will be able to put it behind us quickly and that you will quickly work on additional guidance and faster procedures.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic484x.u86	Mr Secretary of State, it appears that the young Kurde of Syria who killed himself was denied international protection in Belgium on the grounds that he had obviously already obtained protection in Greece. We are well aware that the principle of mutual trust in European Union law, which leads the CGRA to declare inadmissible applications for asylum lodged by persons who have obtained a positive decision in Greece, is encountering a reality. While the situation of asylum seekers in Greece is dramatic, the situation of those granted refugee or subsidiary protection status is even worse. Impossibility of access to work, housing, social and medical assistance, psychological support. Most of these people who are recognized live on the street, in the Greek capital or elsewhere. However, while the law requires an individual analysis of each case, lawyers and field associations challenge us by stating that Belgian authorities, whether CGRA or CEC, would carry out a very superficial and stereotypical analysis to issue or confirm inadmissibility decisions concerning asylum seekers who have obtained a status in Greece. Mr Secretary of State, do you have any statistics on the rate of recognition of refugee status granted to persons previously granted status in Greece? Do you also know what the policy of the CGRA is in this regard? Will Belgium ask to include in the negotiations on the European migration pact the question of the disparities in living conditions of persons who have obtained protection status according to the country in which they have obtained protection status?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic484x.u87	Mr Moutquin, unfortunately, the statistics requested are not available. The CGRA shall first examine the admissibility of the request for protection of the person concerned, without judging the merits of the request. CGRA considers whether there is reason to believe that the person does not have access to effective protection in the other Member State. The CGRA examines the individual situation of individuals. It is important to know that within the European Union there should be mutual trust - trust in the fact that each Member State complies with the rules of the European Union. It is therefore logical that a presumption of effective protection should apply. Failure to have access to certain social rights that exist in Belgium is not sufficient to declare the application admissible. When the application was declared inadmissible, the CGRA does not have to judge whether the person concerned is a refugee or not. Secondary movements are an important subject for Belgium which we wish to address in the discussions on the European Pact on Migration and Asylum. This debate, which has its place in the general discussion on the balance between solidarity and responsibility, is very often held at European level. We're trying to streamline it somewhere. As Member States of the European Union, we must all take our share of responsibility and stand together to welcome people who are in real need of protection. The reception conditions must be at the same acceptable level in all Member States. If this is not the case, it is up to the European Commission to exercise its supervisory role and to do so as far as possible. The Commission has the capacity to verify compliance with the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and other relevant European legal standards on housing and living conditions for asylum seekers and internationally protected persons and to contribute to compliance. This is also part of the discussions I have with countries that share the same ideas. For me, it is important to ensure that the bar that Belgium is raising to a certain level is not brought to a lower level in other Member States. The European Commission therefore has an important role to play as well as the Member States. It must be made clear that each country has its share of responsibility. We must be able to guarantee human reception conditions at European level, because that is the case with our European values, which we talk about very often.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic484x.u88	Mr Secretary of State, you are right to point out that the issue is European. According to what is said in the corridors about the first changes in the European Migration Pact, it is a question of maintaining the responsibility of the first States. This means that the "weight" of migrants' arrivals will continue to be imposed on Greece and other countries. Indeed, they will find themselves unable to access (...) social services, including arrivals. There is also the solidarity mechanism in the processing of applications. Why not have a work permit on a short stay? Dear members of the committee, I am not talking about the opening of borders at all. So don't go twitter this! I believe that intermediate mechanisms should be found to reduce not only asylum applications but also the reality of the ground (...) which does not absorb flows. You are talking about the European Commission. I am counting on you to say a word about it at the European meetings you are attending.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic484x.u89	Question No 55017413C by Mr Simon Moutquin is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic484x.u90	Mr Secretary of State, I refer to the question that has been put.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic484x.u91	Madam President, Mrs Daems, I will answer the questions you asked about how we can better deal with the disappearance of unaccompanied minors in Europe. There is a working group on the subject which has been convened five times since my appointment, either in a general meeting or in a smaller thematic consultation. We note that a lot of progress has been made between the partners and that the noses are in the same direction. This is important because the various partners in the working group all have the same wish, in particular to ensure that unaccompanied minors do not simply disappear off the radar. This often leads to very serious problems, which need to be tackled properly. This is also part of the policy statement. There are a number of priority target groups. We always say that everyone is a vulnerable person, but unaccompanied minors are more than anyone else. That is why it is important that we focus more on this. The agenda of the meeting has so far included the prevention of disappearances. The shared reporting has not yet been discussed. The follow-up to the disappearances will be discussed in June. The report and the sharing of data will then be on the agenda. You have also asked questions about the Voogdij Service. These questions fall within the competence of the Minister of Justice. I refer to him. I think it's important that we work well together. That is also stated in the policy statement. In our registration center we should be able to cooperate with the Voogdij Service. That is a transversal competence and a transversal responsibility. Above all, we should not point to each other, but work together to ensure that we can limit or stop this phenomenon as much as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic484x.u92	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for the answer. You refer to the jurisdiction of the Minister of Justice. I will also address my questions about the Guardian Service to him. This is about unaccompanied underage refugees. They really need good support. This benefits not only them, but also our country. It could work for all kinds of problems... promote integration if a right of residence is in the picture. Of course, it is not only the Voogdij Department that is responsible for the lack of policy regarding the disappearances and the succession of these minors. The initiatives of Fedasil and the Special Youth Services are also too limited to reach this group. In addition, cooperation with neighbouring countries needs to be greatly improved. I am glad to hear that progress has been made. I'm sure I'll keep following up on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic484x.u93	Mrs Daems, I said earlier today to Mr Moutquin that, like you, I think it is important that people with or without legal residence should not be exploited and given the necessary help if they are victims of exploitation. However, action must of course be taken against undeclared work and against persons without legal residence. The Sanctions Directive leaves an appreciation margin to the national legislator in Article 13. Therefore, I have no intention of amending the law. In Belgium, people who are victims of economic exploitation can already use the procedure for victims of trafficking in human beings or trafficking in human beings if the conditions are met. So we can do that today. In addition, in individual cases, the public prosecutor may consider that the presence on the territory of the person concerned is required for the further investigation. The Department of Foreign Affairs will not then proceed to detention or forced return. Strangers can indeed go to the police to file a complaint themselves. The Foreign Office will not instruct the police in such cases. You also ask why inspectors at the workplace are sometimes accompanied by the Foreign Office and the police. The Department of Foreign Affairs is competent to assess the situation of residence and to take the appropriate measures. Depending on the situation of residence, a person may carry out regulatory work or not. So cooperation on the ground is a demand from the control authorities to ensure a faster follow-up. Usually, however, the Foreign Affairs Office is not on the premises and then the police will take the person to the police station and draw up an administrative report, which they will deliver to the DVZ. A decision shall then be taken or the residence situation of the person concerned shall be communicated. You also ask what the competent inspection services are doing to inform undocumented workers of their rights, but of course you must contact the competent regional ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic484x.u94	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Nabil has filed a complaint, because his salary is much... previewed. He wasn't or barely paid for the work he did. That is literally one of the criteria I found in a Myria brochure to be recognised as a victim of trafficking in human beings. You just referred to that brochure. Instead of protecting Nabil, he was arrested and locked up. The fact that he is released from prison on one day after the visit of representatives of the people speaks volumes about the justice and arbitrariness of the system. That system is unfair. It is repressive in relation to sans papers and, where possible, takes a walk with human rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic484x.u95	Madam President, I will not be able to refer exactly to the question tabled two weeks ago; in the meantime, the health situation in the centre of Jodoigne has unfortunately deteriorated: a covid-19 cluster has been detected there. As a first step, 24 residents were diagnosed positive. Since then, a massive test has taken place in the centre. More than 50 residents contracted the covid-19. This concerns staff and other residents. If I am aware that Fedasil (...) and yet no one is immune to these clusters. So he's here today. Can you confirm this problematic situation? What measures are being taken to prevent the spread among the residents and staff of the centre, beyond the fact that I cannot visit the reception facilities? In general, can you tell us where we stand from the point of view of vaccination? A few moments ago, you addressed the issue within the centres. This vaccination is necessary and concerns not only residents, but also staff members.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic484x.u96	Dear colleague, several cases of covid-19 have been detected in the Jodoigne reception centre. The centre is under quarantine and several measures have been taken to prevent spread. Workers will operate in reduced shifts. Volunteers can no longer come to the reception centre temporarily. Residents tested positive for covid-19 are separated from other residents. Occupancy activities may take place outside and provided hygiene measures are respected. All other non-core activities are cancelled and awareness-raising is enhanced. Fedasil is following the situation in the centres closely. A color code is assigned to each centre depending on the situation. Measures are linked to this code to prevent the spread of the virus. This method of work has already proved its worth over the past year. It allows us to act quickly and prevent the virus from spreading further. That is what I have already said on several occasions in this committee today. I want to point out that our Fedasil teams are doing remarkable work to ensure that the covid-19 does not spread to our centres. I thank them for this because they have been operating for several months under fairly complicated conditions. Since this week, we have been able to start immunizing in reception centres. For the moment, this is only the case in a few centres, but the vaccination of residents or staff will continue in the coming weeks, at the same time as that of the general population, as already reported. We hope to vaccinate the entire population of our asylum centres at the same time at very high speed in order to prevent this kind of situation from happening again. I want to thank our Fedasil teams again for doing a great job.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic484x.u97	Mr. Secretary of State, I hear your information. I have less reassuring information from the field at the level of staff who are very concerned. I hope that is the right information you have received and that you are forwarding to us. If the measures are actually put in place, which I will not fail to verify, there is in any case an important message to be delivered to the staff that is currently, I can assure you, in a state of stress at this centre in Jodoigne. You're talking about team reductions. I will not have the opportunity to go further on this issue today, but I can tell you that, in some centres, teleworking, while strongly recommended, is not yet properly implemented. When it comes to team reductions, I also think it must go through these really important measures. Indeed, you say it yourself, these people do a great job but they are exhausted. If they are in stress today, it is because the period is long and hard. They're really waiting for answers. I'm counting on you and I'll check on my side, not by visiting to tease you, but by making contacts.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic484x.u98	Madam President, Mr Buysrogge, after the first consultation, which took place at the end of January, a further consultation will take place before the summer. During this forthcoming consultation, the more precise planning of the Regie, the police and the Red Cross will be further aligned. That has to happen before the summer. The final plans and the timing will therefore determine what period of cohabitation is possible. In the meantime, we have no concrete plans to close the shelter or reduce capacity. Currently, on 17 May, 412 residents reside in Westakkers. There's a good meeting with the police. We are also looking at this project within a long-term framework. This will therefore be the subject of more information before the summer and in cooperation with all the services concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic484x.u99	Mr Secretary of State, the consultation is under way. I am somewhat surprised that the closure is not on schedule at the moment. (...) It doesn't really seem appropriate to me that cohabitation is maintained in the long term. It was always intended that this would be a temporary center. That temporaryity now lasts about six years. I would ask you, however, to investigate the closure of the centre. I understand that this cannot happen tomorrow, but the closure still needs to be examined. The Red Cross staff have already done excellent work in the asylum centre in recent years.
