ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic598x.u1	Minister, we have all been waiting for the much-needed topical debate on ethylene oxide, because the first product recall dates from a year ago. In the beginning the message was mainly reassuring, because it concerned small doses. In the meantime, however, so many products have already been recalled that we have to fear chronic exposure to many products and that we can speak of a real food scandal. I have tabled a great many questions, namely Questions Nos. 55020021C and 55021314C. I will not read them all, but I hope they will all be answered. After all, we all want clarity.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic598x.u2	I would like to repeat that speaking time is two minutes in topical debates and two minutes in reply. The Minister gets five to ten minutes for his answers. There are two minutes' speaking time and one minute's reply to ordinary questions. Mrs. Sneppe and Mrs. Dierick are sorry. Their questions 55020027C and 55020032C therefore lapse.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic598x.u3	Mr President, I would like to use the speaking time allocated to my reply. I refer to the text of my question as tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic598x.u4	Mr President, residues of ethylene oxide have mainly been found in sesame seeds, spices such as turmeric, curry, ginger, pepper, raw materials used in food supplements, in particular in psyllium fibers and moringa powder, and more recently in food additives such as guargom and carob gum. All non-conformitys shall be reported through the RASFF system accessible to the general public and to operators and shall provide access to the main information. In the case of sesame seeds from India, problems have repeatedly arisen as regards the exceedance of the maximum residue limits (MRL) set for EtO in European legislation. There is no list of third countries allowing the use of EtO for food treatment. The main country of origin of the contaminated products is India, but other countries such as Turkey, China, Uganda, Malaysia and Morocco are also involved. The increase in product recalls in August and September can be explained by the application since 13 July 2021 of a harmonised approach at the request of the European Commission in the other EU Member States. Since then, at the request of the European Commission, all finished products such as ice cream, which were manufactured with an ingredient that was non-compliant with respect to the maximum residue limits set for EtO, have been systematically withdrawn from the market and recalled from consumers, regardless of their EtO residue level. This zero tolerance approach for EtO-contaminated products is stricter than the standard approach that Belgium previously applied and provided for measures that took into account a risk-based approach. This approach also caused a lot of extra food waste. Following the European meeting of 4 October 2021 and the elements put forward there, it appeared that Belgium's approach should be further refined. For new dossiers, compliance shall be assessed against the MRL based on calculations where the dilution factor is charged and confirmed by an analytical result. As regards the control of the BFSA, the BFSA has adapted and strengthened its control programme in response to the problem of ethylene oxide. Several dozen samples have already been taken or are currently being taken on the Belgian market in order to verify compliance with the MRL set out in the legislation. In addition, increased import controls on sesame seeds from India are carried out at European level. Each consignment arriving in Europe shall be accompanied by an official certificate of analysis issued by the competent authorities since November 2020. This certificate shall show that the products have been sampled and analysed for the purpose of monitoring the presence of pesticide residues, including EtO. In addition, 50% of consignments are subject to an analysis on arrival in Europe. As regards responsibilities and penalties, the importer is responsible for the products which he places on the European market and must ensure, as part of his self-monitoring, that they comply with the maximum residue limits (MRLs) for pesticides laid down in the legislation. To do so, it may request assurances from its suppliers and carry out analyses. It has an obligation to inform AFSCA of non-compliances under the notification obligation. The marketing and/or use of foodstuffs not in accordance with the MRLs laid down by European law shall be prohibited and shall be subject to a report of infringement resulting in an administrative fine. If non-compliant products are found, food companies are also required to remove them from the market and remind consumers. Certain non-compliant products may be identified before being placed on the market, such as, for example, sesame seeds from India which are subject to enhanced import controls. However, non-compliant products are also identified as soon as they are placed on the market or used. The withdrawal or recall measures from consumers are therefore necessary. Product recalls are the subject of a press release and are published on the AFSCA website. With regard to maximum residue limits, EU legislation sets maximum residue limits for pesticides that apply to all foods in all Member States. Since ETO is an unauthorised substance in Europe, maximum residue limits have been set at the detection limit, which is the lowest concentration that can be measured. According to foods, this value ranges from 0.02 to 0.1 mg/kg, where it is much higher in Canada and the United States, for example. Mr President, these are the answers to the various questions that have been asked to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic598x.u5	Minister, you are giving some answers here, but I am left with questions. What I still do not understand is that there is no standard check for a product that is not authorised in the EU. If I remember correctly, it was actually Italy that discovered the use of ethylene oxide on sesame seeds and then it appeared that the importer of those seeds was in Belgium. I find it strange that no standard controls should be carried out on them, since it is a product that is listed in the EU list and is therefore not allowed. I also read that you would have advised to adjust the threshold, but you did not reply. I don't know much about that myself, but I'll listen to experts on the subject. Professor Tytgat says that it is not a good idea to interrupt that threshold because it is an accumulation of different products and it is very difficult to estimate what the final consequences will be. There are no direct acute effects, but there may be longer-term effects, such as an increased risk of cancer. We must not compromise there. It must really be about better monitoring of the food chain and better identifying the various intermediaries or firms involved. We are now a year after the first recall and last week products were recalled again. How good is our view of the food chain and of the origin of all these products? I ask myself big questions about that. Shouldn't we ask for a major checkup of that? If something like this can happen with ethylene oxide, then it can probably happen with another product. I am not really reassured by your answers and will certainly come back to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic598x.u6	Minister, thank you for your answers. Initially, I asked this question in the context of consumer protection. AFSCA responded very well, although it took time. The communications were made on the AFSCA website and a press release was issued. These reactions sometimes seemed to me a little confused and difficult to understand for clients. You said that this time, AFSCA and Europe would not tolerate ethylene oxide. It's positive, but I'm worried because you say the answer has been oversized. I invite you to read Our Daily Poison, a work by Marie-Monique Robin, which shows that maximum permissible dilutions are usually done in an approximate manner. It is important to protect consumers from chronic diseases. For example, cancer is an environmental disease. It is therefore very important to apply zero tolerance. You're protecting the independents. Food producers in Europe, such as farmers, have everything to gain from a situation where products containing banned additives cannot be used in products sold in Europe. I think that everyone would win, consumers and producers in Europe. Thank you, Minister, for taking this important point into account for our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic598x.u7	Mr President, I will be very brief to highlight part of what Mr Vicar has just said. I was somewhat surprised to hear that the AFSCA first had a "risk" approach, while we have very strict regulations on these products. Minister, you have explained that very well. I am quite satisfied that the Commission wanted to have a cross-cutting response from all European countries, and to have zero tolerance. It seems to me that, regardless of the positive impact it has on our health, this is a very clear message to the supplier countries. We are in a globalized food market, which brings many opportunities but also generates significant risks. It is important that Europe, and in particular Belgium, send a very clear message to the producing countries. We don't play with the sanitary rules. It is not fair for Belgian producers to impose very strict rules and to compete with producers in other less observant countries. I therefore strongly support the zero tolerance approach of the AFSCA and the Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic598x.u8	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. It has indeed started with ethylene oxide in sesame seeds, but in the meantime more than 200 products have been recalled. With this, this is the largest recall action ever taken in consultation with the BFSA. Those who would eat these products are not immediately at risk, but in the medium term there may be a health risk. For example, Mrs Bonte of the BFSA stated that if a lot of ethylene oxide products were consumed daily and for many years, there would be a potential risk to health. Even if there are only very small contaminated sesame spices in the final product, it is good that they are recalled. We should not be at any risk with public health. I think the response of the BFSA in this one is certainly the right one.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic598x.u9	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. You will not be surprised, but I remain hungry on a few points with regard to communication and, above all, prevention. You say it is ultimately the responsibility of the importer. He must ensure that the products contained in the store racks are free of harmful products. However, here we are dealing with such large-scale recall operations that I think we should do more than simply say that it is the importer's responsibility. The stricter controls have been in force since 13 July. I think we should also raise awareness. I am not saying that you should do that, Minister, that is up to the European Union, but we do not want such large-scale recall actions to be needed. We also need to act preventively, raise awareness of producers and make even more large-scale preventive checks before products come into the shop. That is what my written question was about in August. I sincerely wonder how much of the products sold are not ultimately reduced and consumed. I hope that I will get those figures in writing, because I am genuinely concerned about this. The BFSA has done what it has to do, in particular to send out a press release and publish that information on its website. I do not think that is enough, because we know that this way we do not reach all consumers. I can now call out that the BFSA is not doing well, but the BFSA has done its job. The framework and rules in this area are not good enough. That's why I'm bringing this up with you, and I hope that we can work together to see how communication can be improved. We can't think about that until we have the right figures. In this digital world where I almost every time I go to the store have my customer card scanned, those chain stores can send me targeted communication about products I often buy. Why not think about a framework in which targeted communication is sent out when a product is purchased that is recalled? We can finally enter the 21st century there. At the level of the BFSA we should also think about this. It takes a lot of work, but I think this can be done better. The framework for the BFSA needs to be tightened so that more products are ultimately recalled. I found it difficult to find out in the press that this would be useless food waste. Public health is never useless. I had expected from the BFSA that it would be counterweight there and would report that this is about our public health and not a waste of food.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic598x.u10	Mr Prévot is not present, his question No. 55019604C expires.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic598x.u11	Mr Minister, I will keep my question very brief. We have already had an actua debate on bamboo china. In July I submitted a written question on this, because Test Purchase pointed out to us that many of the prohibited products were still still on the market. I'd like to know what else you've done since that Test Purchase report? I had a lot of other questions, but that's the essence.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic598x.u12	First of all, Mrs Creemers, I would like to point out that the products currently marketed as bamboo products are often plastic products, in particular melamine. These products must therefore comply with plastic legislation. However, they are often sold wrongly as natural, sustainable and organic products. Consumers are therefore being misled. Moreover, some importers use these false motives to fail to comply with plastic legislation. For several years, the BFSA's control programme has provided analyses of plastic polymers with regard to the migration of melamine and/or formaldehyde and also provides for inspections to verify the self-checking, reporting and traceability. In parallel with this, targeted checks have been carried out by the BFSA at the final distributors since May 2021 to verify whether the plastic packaging materials made of bamboo fibre and/or melamine and formaldehyde were withdrawn from sales. The contact materials sector was informed by the Belgian authorities two years ago about the problems of bamboo fibres, melamine and formaldehyde. The authorisation of additives in plastic polymers that come into contact with food is indeed a competence of the Public Health Office. During consultation meetings with the professional federations of the contact materials in 2018 and 2019, the FPS Public Health informed the sector on several occasions about the issue. As a supervisory authority, the BFSA also took part in these consultation meetings and supported the position of the FPS in the context of the various communications. The Belgian authorities' communications at the end of 2020 and those of the BFSA of February 2021 as well as the Benelux Joint Declaration of 15 February 2021 should be seen as the formal expression of the European decision of 23 June 2020. During the consultations held at the end of 2020 and early 2021, the BFSA reminded the sector federations of this ban and pointed to the launch of a targeted control campaign of the BFSA. Communications to consumers are also provided on the social networks of the BFSA. The BFSA will continue to carry out targeted checks in the future. In order to answer your questions regarding the figures, I will provide you with a written supplement through the President.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic598x.u13	Minister, the annex will be delivered to the members concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic598x.u14	Thank you, Minister, for the additional figures. I would actually like to ask them today, because we need to know the correct figures in order to be able to adjust the policy accordingly. I heard you say that there have only been targeted checks at the BFSA since the end of May. The press release of Test Purchase dates from the end of June, so those two campaigns may have crossed. I will not be too quick to judge, I will wait until I have seen everything the BFSA has done on this matter. If I have seen the figures, I will come back to this later if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic598x.u15	Minister, like the solidarity initiatives of the same name in other cities and provinces, without Hunger to Bed Hasselt is a bridge between people in need and those who can miss a fresh meal or preservation products. Five permanent volunteers help 57 Hasselt families in poverty who cannot count on external assistance. Food surpluses are used by companies such as bakers and supermarkets. Following an anonymous complaint, the BFSA decided to carry out checks. The food agency concluded that the organization was in violation. Although this is a non-commercial initiative, according to the BFSA, the voluntary project no longer belongs to the private sphere. Volunteers are now obliged to register everything officially, giving volunteers a huge administrative burden. In addition, the BFSA informed them during the checks that without Hunger to Bed Hasselt a fine hangs over the head. Minister, what is your opinion on the situation? Do you consider such treatment and a possible fine proportionate? Will these rules and/or controls not stand in the way of other and future voluntary solidarity initiatives? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic598x.u16	Mr De Caluwé, checks on charitable initiatives are carried out by the BFSA either as a result of a complaint or as part of a planned inspection under the established inspection plans for the sector. The voluntary initiative Without Hunger to Bed Hasselt carried out a check on an anonymous complaint about a lack of hygiene. Infringements of food safety rules were identified. The complaint was therefore well founded. The King's Attorney was informed of the violations. The BFSA has the possibility to close the file on the basis of an administrative friendly settlement, proposing an amount. That friendly settlement proposal takes into account all the elements of the dossier, such as the social objective. If it comes to an agreement, the criminal proceedings shall lapse. Such initiatives are commendable and respectable. However, it would be unthinkable to accept second-class food safety and therefore a lack of hygiene under the pretext of avoiding food waste and helping people in need. Therefore, certain rules must be observed. To support such initiatives, the Support Unit of the BFSA organises training courses to help the associations comply with the rules in force. In addition, there are administrative facilitations for food banks and charitable organisations have been launched. For example, the Foundations Food Safety project was launched at Donations, which aims to monitor the difficulties and misunderstandings faced by the actors in the field and to provide solutions. The inspection plan shall monitor charitable organisations with an authorisation every four years. In 2019 and 2020, 98 and 124 inspections were carried out at these organisations, 35% of which were unfavourable and 33% respectively. This high percentage clearly shows that some initiatives, although commendable, need to perform better in the area of food safety.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic598x.u17	Mr Minister, of course this is not just about the organisation I mentioned, which I set as an example for similar aid organisations. You agree that we should have such initiatives; I welcome that. Of course, the safety of final consumers must be paramount. We must indeed ensure that no second-class products are offered; I fully agree with you on this. I am therefore pleased to hear that the BFSA has prepared an offer to accompany such charitable organisations so that they can guarantee quality. I hope that controls will focus on guidance rather than sanctions, which I believe should be a last resort. We must first help and guide these charitable organizations so that they can do well and guarantee the quality of the food, and only when they persist, I do not think that it is possible to sanction them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic598x.u18	Mrs Dierick apologizes and asks her questions. 55020061C, 55020063C, 55020064C and 55020065C to be converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic598x.u19	In the absence of Mrs Dierick, her question No. 55020091C.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic598x.u20	Mr President, Minister, in the summer we discussed the PFAS and PFOS issues for a long time. You gave us a lot of information about what the BFSA has done in that regard near Zwijndrecht. In the course of August I asked for an update with a follow-up request. The most important points, which I am still concerned about, should be clarified. In the summer I found it difficult to establish that the BFSA based itself on old values. You said that the new values were not expected until late 2021 or early 2022. We asked for attention to be paid to the standards which were already known. In the meantime, Minister, have directives been issued in this respect? Do pregnant women and groups at risk, for example, receive better information? In the meantime, how have you dealt with communication together with the Länder? People with a vegetable garden or their own chickens are sometimes sent from the cabinet to the wall. The BFSA often advises on storage obligations, but for citizens with questions about the eggs of their own chickens or the vegetables from their vegetable garden, the BFSA is apparently not the appropriate authority for information. How can information be streamlined for the population? Are there any samples currently being taken that are already being tested against the new limit values? Have you had any news, and perhaps already consulted with regional colleagues, about compensation for farmers in that area?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic598x.u21	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the situation in Zwijndrecht, after reorienting the samples from the general sampling programme, the AFSCA carried out a specific sampling campaign in the Zwijndrecht region where samples of eggs, milk and meat were taken from the holdings located within a radius of 15 km around the company 3M. The results of all these samples, both those of the reorientation of the general sampling campaign and those of the specific sampling campaign, were below the action limits applied by AFSCA for PFOS and PFOA for products of animal origin in the absence of harmonised European standards. It is therefore not currently necessary to take additional measures for marketed agricultural products. As far as standards are concerned, EFSA does not itself set standards but issues an opinion on the health risks associated with contaminants. The European Commission is the only body responsible for setting harmonised standards at European level. The process of setting such standards has only recently been launched following the EFSA opinion issued in 2020. At Belgian level, the Public Health FPS is the competent authority to set national food safety standards and to follow discussions on standards at European level. As already stated, the Agency does not currently have any European or Belgian standards that it can apply. As regards the BFSA's actions, as mentioned above, it is currently not necessary to take additional measures for agricultural products placed on the market, on the basis of the Agency's current action limits pending European standards. Depending on the final outcome of the discussion on the future European standards of PFAS in food, the BFSA will assess whether further actions are needed to protect consumers, which is the basis of its mission and action. In order to obtain a complete and up-to-date picture of PFAS background values in foods destined for the food chain and coming from areas considered as non-polluted, the BFSA has also started an additional monitoring exercise, initially taking samples of both animal and plant products throughout Flanders. The aim is to verify whether and to what extent there is PFAS contamination of food grown or produced in places where it is assumed that it is not contaminated by historical industrial activities. The results of this background monitoring in Flanders are expected in October-November 2021. Similar monitoring will also be organised in Wallonia.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic598x.u22	Minister, thank you for your answer. You partially gave the frame back, as you had done before the summer in a very clear way. It is indeed necessary to know who decides which standard. Let me repeat what I have already said. I thank you very much for the initiative you have taken to do more sampling and to give yourself the means to strengthen, with the AFSCA, control over the direct zone of Zwijndrecht and more widely. Nevertheless, it is known that the standards applied by the AFSCA are already obsolete. You were right to say that we must wait for the Commission to draw up new standards based on the EFSA recommendations. You also declare that all the results obtained are below the standards. But, in the end, it does not mean much in terms of public health. We look forward to a real review of the rules. It is known that a biometric was recently carried out by the Walloon Region. We can see how much we are dealing with toxic products everywhere and all the time. We therefore have every interest in raising standards as quickly as possible. I hope, in any case, that Belgium is up to the challenge in the European debates on the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic598x.u23	Minister, I can only join my colleague de Laveleye in her call to be a country leader in this dossier in order to translate the information we have received from EFSA into new standards. We are confronted in Belgium with the problem of PFOS. 3M in Zwijndrecht has been the cause, but contaminated sites appear everywhere. That is why I think it is now up to us to pull the cart in Europe. I hope we have some news on that in three months. It is now about three months since we debated this and no real progress is being made. I would very much like to hear you say that there will be an additional monitoring in Flanders. I am very curious to see what it will yield and how we can compare them to what is happening in Zwijndrecht. You say that we expect the additional monitoring in the course of October and November 2021. I am going to prepare a question so that we can discuss it at your next meeting with our committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic598x.u24	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Ms Dierick's 55020096C and 55020351C are converted into written questions. Questions Nos 55020488C and 55020489C by Mrs Fonck are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic598x.u25	Madam, the responsibility for monitoring the sales and uses of veterinary medicinal products lies with the AFMPS. It is done by recording the sales of antibiotics by pharmaceutical companies and by mandatory coding imposed on veterinarians. All the measures in place in veterinary medicine have led to a significant reduction in the use of antibiotics in animal health, and particularly in the so-called critical antibiotics. We are talking about a reduction of more than 40% between 2011 and 2020 and more than 70% for so-called critical antibiotics. As part of its inspections, AFSCA controls throughout the national territory whether veterinary medicinal products which have been delivered, administered and stored on the holding have been delivered in accordance with the legal provisions. In 2020, out of the 2,948 inspections carried out by the Agency on the mandatory conduct of an antibiogram, the absence of such an antibiogram was found only once. With regard to the use of human trafficking robots in Belgium, the use of human trafficking robots is only slowly increasing. Approximately 10% of dairy farmers use a robot, according to available data from 2018. There were no positive effects on the occurrence of udder infections and therefore on the use of antibiotics. As far as the sector's efforts are concerned, animals fall ill on intensive and extensive farms, which may require the introduction of antibiotic therapy. As already mentioned, in 2020, the animal sector had already reduced its antibiotic consumption by 40% compared to 2011. For the period 2021-2024, new ambitious reduction targets were set in the second convention on the use of antibiotics between authorities and stakeholders in the sector. This shows that the sector concerned is fully aware of the risk of antibiotic resistance associated with the use of antibiotics and takes responsibility. It is not only willing to manage risk but has also undertaken many actions in recent years. As regards the search for alternatives, there is currently no alternative that would be equivalent to the therapeutic use of antibiotics. Scientific research carried out in this context is the responsibility of the Public Health FPS.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic598x.u26	Minister, thank you for this very interesting answer. If I understand correctly, regarding the use of so-called critical antibiotics, you mentioned a 70% decrease between 2011 and 2020. That's significant. Belgium can be relatively proud of these results at European level. We know that the trend is reversed in several European countries. These results show the voluntaristic side of our farmers, but also probably the fact that intensive agriculture is a little less developed in Europe than elsewhere in the world. You say that animals fall ill in the same way on intensive or less intensive farms. In my opinion, the figures indicate that animals are more vulnerable in intensive farming. We therefore have every interest in supporting our producers who make the choice of moderate breeding to be able to dispense with this type of medicine. I am pleased to hear that there is a new plan 2021-2024. I will analyse it to see what the new objectives are and how the sector is accompanied by public authorities to achieve them effectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic598x.u27	Mr President, Minister, high levels of PCBs are regularly established in my region, Genk-South. A while ago, I submitted a question about this, because when checking in October 2019 the BFSA examined a maize sample that did not conform to the PCB standards. The corn was therefore not to be used as animal feed. You replied to my question that if the BFSA gets signals of a possible environmental contamination, it will always investigate it and that it also started specific actions at scrap processing companies. Nevertheless, a summary of the Steering Group on Environmental Quality Genk-Zuid says that the BFSA does not make any additional samplings in this case. This is in stark contrast to what you said about it last time. Do you know anything about that? Can you give me any arguments as to why that decision was made? At that time, you also mentioned that specific monitoring actions would take place with scrap-processing companies in the course of 2021. Do you have any idea if they've happened? Where did they take place? What's to be done with that? How will you ensure that agricultural activities close to scrap processing plants or other polluting activities are better monitored, so that contaminated crops or animals certainly do not enter the food chain? I know that this is partly a matter for the Länder, but I wonder how you work with it and what you will do about it in the coming months? Here too, Minister, I bring in my vegetable garden and my chickens. It's getting a little standard that I'm referring to that. It is not the task of the BFSA to accept this, it is not the responsibility of the BFSA, but how do citizens with a vegetable garden and chickens know what is going on? Where can they go? What do they have to do to know if their self-produced food is safe?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic598x.u28	Mr President, Mrs Creemers, when the BFSA informed the VMM that it had not provided any additional sampling in this area at that time, it had already carried out a number of samplings here in the period from autumn 2019 to spring 2020. The results were satisfactory. Following the results of the last deposition measurements of the VMM at that time, the situation was reviewed by the BFSA in the autumn of 2020. It also continued to monitor the following deposition results of the VMM. In spring 2021, it also organised a consultation with the VMM and the Department of Environment to prepare a more general monitoring in the vicinity of scrap processing companies in Flanders. This monitoring plan shall take into account both the measurement strategies and deposition results of the VMM and the crops present. These samples are taken from products of animal and plant origin, also in the vicinity of the two shredders near Genk. There is therefore no contradiction between the various messages from the BFSA. The active monitoring of the environment and the pollution of the environment and the presence of contamination in household gardens is part of the powers of the Regions. It is up to them to provide a clear picture of the nature and extent of environmental contamination. Secondly, it is the responsibility of operators to place only safe products that conform to the standards on the market. Farmers should carry out analyses of their products themselves in the context of their auto-checking, in order to ensure that they market compliant products. This is an obligation under European legislation. Finally, it is up to the BFSA to verify, on the one hand, whether operators are effectively taking all measures to demonstrate that their products are safe. As regards cooperation with the Regions, specifically in the case of scrap installations in Flanders, the VMM has already informed the BFSA about high deposition measurements in the past. On the other hand, as mentioned above, the BFSA involved the VMM and the Department of Environment in a consultation to establish a more general BFSA monitoring approach near these companies. The BFSA will also keep the VMM and the Department of Environment informed of the results of this monitoring. In general, the BFSA cooperates with the environmental authorities of the Regions. In addition, when the BFSA receives signals from other sources, it itself contacts the regional authorities to obtain additional information and to be able to take targeted action and take measures in this way. As for your last question about private gardens, which fall within the competence of the Regions. I therefore invite you to address a question to them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic598x.u29	Minister, if I understand correctly, the deposition measurements of the VMM are the basis on which the BFSA bases itself to measure or not what falls within its competence. That's clear. In this particular case, the maize found was disturbing, but as the VMM has taken reassuring measurements in the meantime, the BFSA has not taken any action. You say that other bodies can also notify the BFSA if they are concerned. I will check whether this has happened in this dossier, because in Genk-South we are concerned about the vicinity of the scrap-processing companies. It can't be that such things end up in the food chain. I'll take it from here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic598x.u30	Minister, this question may be similar to the previous one, but it is a very different one since it concerns the Umicoresite in Hoboken. In Flanders, this site was in the news because the 5 microgram lead limit in the blood of neighborhood residents is regularly exceeded. Less known is the presence of arsenic and cadmium in the area, substances which are also very harmful if they are found to be too high in the blood. The problems surrounding these companies have been discussed several times with the Minister of Health, especially with regard to the pollutants that remain in the body. As far as PFAS is concerned, we have already discussed this sufficiently, and that has already been made. Mr. Secretary, does the BFSA provide additional monitoring near Umicore? Food is also produced in that region. Besides PFAS in Zwijndrecht, the problem of Umicore has been getting worse for years. After your answer to the previous question, I know that the BFSA will manage this together with the VMM. What did the BFSA do in recent years near that site in Hoboken, now it is really known how harmful these products are in the blood? Is there also proactive work at other sites with potential pollution? In my own province I think of the whole history of heavy metals in the north. How does the BFSA deal with that? Are measurements carried out at regular intervals to ensure that we do not have to establish in a few years' time that we have learned nothing from the situation around 3M in Zwijndrecht?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic598x.u31	Mrs Creemers, the historical environmental pollution of heavy metals around Umicore sites is a well-known problem. The BFSA has already carried out specific targeted sampling campaigns around this site in the past. The most recent monitoring was carried out in 2020, following a report on a non-compliant result for lead in honey from hives in the vicinity of Umicore in Hoboken. Within a radius of two kilometers around the site, a total of 16 samples were taken from sweet corn, silo maize, pumpkins, honey and eggs that were examined for lead and cadmium. Three samples of sweet corn did not meet the cadmium standard. In autumn 2021, another non-compliant result for cadmium in sweet corn was recorded. The BFSA is currently evaluating whether further actions are needed. As far as research support is concerned, it is the primary responsibility of operators, in accordance with European legislation, to place only safe products on the market that meet all standards. It is the task of the BFSA to verify, first, whether operators are effectively taking all measures to demonstrate that their products are safe, for example by means of analyses, and, second, to carry out a monitoring of products within its competence, if it deems it necessary. Every year, the BFSA carries out an official risk-based analysis programme on various products. This year an analysis of lead and cadmium in plant products from the short chain was added to official controls. In general, the degree of conformity of heavy metal analyses is very high. For example, the conformity is 99,3% for the 4,114 analyses on heavy metals cadmium, lead, arsenic and mercury carried out on various foods, feed and water between 2017 and 2020. The results of the analysis of the official controls of the BFSA shall be forwarded to the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA), which shall carry out a risk assessment. The European Commission relies on those available data and EFSA opinions to establish harmonised European standards for contaminants presenting a risk. For example, the legal maximum levels for cadmium in certain foodstuffs have recently been reduced. Currently, there is no location where the BFSA carries out additional monitoring of the presence of lead, cadmium and arsenic in the food chain. However, I can assure you that when the BFSA is informed by the Regions of environmental pollution that may be harmful to the safety of the food chain, it will always investigate and, if necessary, carry out additional targeted sampling. In fact, it has done so before and recently again in the context of the PFOS problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic598x.u32	Minister, I am glad to hear that we are already a step further in the dossier under discussion than in the dossier relating to PFOS. I understand how things work. There were several reports, all of which are communicated to Europe. Europe then examines the issue and, if necessary, adjusts the standards. If I understand correctly, for the mentioned heavy metals, that process is over and the standards have been adjusted. We are still waiting for that in relation to PFOS. I'm glad there's a lot of monitoring going on. According to your figures, 99.3 % does. That is a good percentage, but I am always concerned about the remaining 0,7% and I hope that this percentage will be properly followed up. I am satisfied with the approach, whereby these metals are also monitored in the monitoring of the short chain, all the more so because more and more consumers are getting their food close to home, and we can only welcome that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic598x.u33	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Jiroflée converted 55020979C into a written question
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic598x.u34	Mrs de Laveleye, during the meetings of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed (SCoPAFF), Belgium expressed its non-support for the Commission's proposal to restrict the use of sulfoxaflor to indoor uses. It is important to note that we recognize the need to impose restrictions on the current approval of sulfoxaflor, which is not a neonicotinoid. However, the current proposal for a restriction on the inside alone is unnecessarily severe. According to the general principle, if a safe use can be identified for an active substance, it must be authorised. External uses of sulfoxaflor can be obtained by limiting the application of post-floration and using risk mitigation measures - for example, application when no flowering weeds are present - as well as by reducing drift. It is also possible to have safe use in the application of sulfoxaflor in autumn in winter cereals, as is currently permitted in Ireland. For this use, by application, bees are no longer present and therefore cannot be exposed. In addition, sulfoxaflor is much less persistent in the environment than neonicoticoids. Thus, the potential environmental residues of an autumn treatment would no longer be a problem when bees reappear in the spring. Therefore, Belgium concludes that there is already an established safe outdoor use. We are currently evaluating a sulfoxaflor product for use in the cultivation of sugar beets, open-air carrots and protected strawberries. This could partly meet the requirements for authorised insecticides in these crops. The availability of sulfoxaflor for sugar beets would reduce the use of emergency authorisations for neonicotinoids. Therefore, we maintain our position that we do not support the current Commission proposal and that we would prefer to see a change in the approval conditions introducing mandatory risk reduction measures combined with a mandatory assessment of this substance, in accordance with the revised guidance documents on bees, once these are available.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-18-definitief-55-commissie-ic598x.u35	Minister, thank you. It is a pity to conclude with this question because we know that we are not quite on the same line. I'm uncomfortable. The Commission, which is not always the main player in environmental protection, and which sometimes takes a long time to legislate, has issued a recommendation for the Member States, and Belgium chooses not to follow it. I'm frankly uncomfortable with that. Of course, sulfoxaflor is not recognized as a neonicotinoid. Nevertheless, he has an action quite similar to these and he must therefore worry us as well as his cousins in this matter. It has been proven by many scientific publications that these products are toxic to bees. I am frankly uncomfortable with our country's position at this time. I am also concerned that your predecessors, Messrs. Instead, Borsus and Ducrame had followed the Commission's recommendation to limit use in greenhouses. I therefore do not understand very well what justifies a change of direction for the time being. Minister, I will certainly continue to question you about this and try to see how to strengthen our legislation at Belgian level to protect biodiversity. We are in the midst of a crisis of collapse of ecosystems and I believe that Belgium should set an example at this level and not lag behind.
