ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic434x.u1	Madam Secretary of State, I submitted my question a long time ago. It has become topical due to recent events in Beveren. The rainbow community in Belgium is expecting a new federal action plan, SOGIESC. That plan should be a successor to the first action plan covering the period 2013-2014. The second edition came with a few years delay, for the period 2018-2019. In other words, the third edition should have been there as well. But the timing has had to go through the compelling form of government. The good news is, there's perspective. In your policy paper, you announced that you will roll out the plan in the course of this year, and according to what we understood from the statements made by the Flemish Minister of Equal Opportunities, Bart Somers, you would have indicated that the third inter-federal action plan would come in the autumn, while initially spring 2021 was set. I have a number of questions on the subject, but I will refer to the written version I have submitted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic434x.u2	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, Belgium was confronted almost a month ago with a terrible assassination, some of which still need to be clarified. This murder is for me only the tip of the very violent iceberg of a homophobia of young and old alike. Of course we could also talk about transphobia, biphobia, lesbians. It is important to provide criminal responses to this murder, but also to have a more comprehensive reflection on society in general. One in four young people in the LGBTQIA+ community has suicidal desires, and homosexuals continue to face discrimination. For myself, being homosexual, sometimes walking on the street gives rise to views and reflections that can be difficult to live as a political person, but also as a citizen. Madam Secretary of State, I would like to ask you a specific question about meeting applications, which I have also addressed to your colleague Mrs Verlinden. These applications may constitute a danger, which is also in full containment, where meeting spaces for homosexuals are reduced. Have you been able to contact your colleague Mrs Verlinden to discuss these applications? For the rest, I will listen to your answers on the measures that are being considered.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic434x.u3	Mrs Van Peel is not present, as is Mrs Vindevoghel.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic434x.u4	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, Monday, March 22nd was the International Day of Transgender Visibility. On this occasion, the StepStone job search site conducted a survey on the well-being at work of transgender employees, which interviewed 121 people. This shows that 65 per cent of women report that they have been discriminated against at work. This significant figure is up 3% from the previous study conducted in 2017. The most common forms of discrimination relate to the protection and respect of privacy and occur during the recruitment phase or in the event of dismissal or resignation. It is gratified that Belgium has always been progressive with regard to the rights of LGBTQIA+ people. Indeed, an anti-discrimination law exists in our legislation and the government agreement stresses that the executive will also take initiatives to further protect all these people. Nevertheless, there is still a long way to go. That's a fact. It's still a long way to go. Madam Secretary of State, have you been aware of the study carried out by StepStone? I see you're already acquiescing. How do you intend to support transgender people who are discriminated against in the workplace? Have any consultations with the Minister of Employment ever taken place in this context? How can this type of discrimination be combated and punished more effectively? More generally, what is the third plan to combat discrimination and violence against LGBTQIA+ people? What is the status of the planned consultations with civil society?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic434x.u5	We are in a topical debate. Members of groups that have not spoken may speak either now or in reply. Personally, I will do it for the PTB in the replicas. Do any members wish to speak? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic434x.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for these important questions. First of all, I would like to stress that I strongly condemn any form of violence. The judicial investigation is currently under way. Without wishing to pre-empt that investigation, I confirm that I am in favour of both preventive and repressive action against homophobic hatred. Civil society, Unia and the Institute have made numerous recommendations to ensure this. Those are the recommendations that my administration has put to work. It is currently preparing concrete inter-sectional and inclusive actions in cooperation with the police, Justice and the Länder, to optimise both the legal framework and the policy on hate speech and hate crimes. For example, we are talking about better registration of hate crimes and providing for a general increase in criminal penalties for crimes caused by hatred. Last week, my cabinet met members of the Igbtqi umbrella organisation. We exchanged proposals that the government worked out and listened to their priorities. The SOGIESC draft plan will include these actions under the strategic objective of "strengthening the security of Igbtqi+ individuals." Of course, this is done in consultation with the Ministers for Justice and Home Affairs. As indicated, repression is not enough. Prevention in all areas is also essential in order to bring about a change in behaviour within the population itself. The new SOGIESC action plan will thus focus on prevention in all areas: at work, at school, in the media, etc. Finally, the fight against online hate speech also involves raising public awareness. Mr Prévot, your questions were more specifically about transgender people. This Wednesday is precisely the International Day of Transgender Visibility. It therefore seems logical to me that we should be able to talk to Parliament about this specific audience. With my colleague Van Quickenborne, I am reviewing the transgender law. I shall therefore come back to the House to report on the progress made in this matter. Furthermore, the amendments to the discrimination tests, which I am working with Minister Dermagne, promote their application on all grounds of discrimination envisaged by the Anti-Discrimination Act, including with respect to transgendered persons. Finally, the adoption of the new SOGIESC plan will also improve the protection of the latter. With regard to the preparation of this plan, we have defined a framework for its strategic and operational objectives, in consultation with the Communities and the Regions, UNIA, the Institute for Gender Equality (IEFH) and civil society. It is expected that it will be adopted before the end of the year and will cover the entire legislature, that is, until 2024. In substance, the plan will address the causes of discrimination and take into account victims of multiple discrimination. I want to ensure that the most vulnerable groups and individuals will also be protected by our actions. Finally, it will be up to the next government to determine whether follow-up will be given to the implementation of the SOGIESC Action Plan. However, it is possible to establish a legal framework for new governments to adopt an action plan within one year of their entry into office. That leads me to think it's interesting. Mr Moutquin, it seems to me that contact with the platforms is essential. For this reason, I will ask them to try to identify together the available avenues of action to prevent such tragedies from occurring. Thank you for your attention and apologize for the length of my answer, which depended on the number of questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic434x.u7	According to the Rules of Procedure, it seems to me that you are given five minutes to respond. The committee secretary just confirmed it to me. So, it's okay, but we shouldn't abuse it!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic434x.u8	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your very clear condemnation of any form of violence. You are right to say that it is not only the repression of homophobic hatred that is important, but that prevention plays a much more important role in this respect. You say that your administration is working on an integrated plan for repression and prevention, which I welcome. You have also explained that the SOGIESC Interfederal Action Plan is taking shape, and I look forward to dialogue with you on this shortly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic434x.u9	Madam Secretary of State, you said the most important thing: repression is not enough. As the European Commission is asking us, I, like others, believe that it is necessary to increase sanctions. But it is important to know that a person who wants to commit violence against a person who is gay or belonging to the LGBTQIA+ community, or who, even worse, wishes to kill her, will not take into account the fact, a few minutes before taking action, that the penalties for this type of crime have been increased and, finally, decide not to take action. Homophobia does not take into account the sanctions imposed. Hence the interest of having an ambitious plan, a cross-cutting plan for the protection of LGBTQIA+ people. That's your ambition, which makes me happy. In the light of your policy note, you have this necessary vision of transversality. I am thinking in particular of some police officers who arrested two men who were walking hand in hand in the street to tell them that they were not respecting the recommendations on social distancing, not imagining that they could be a couple. We can talk about homophobia, especially in Poland and Uganda. We can talk about the homophobic words of Jair Bolsonaro. But we also have to question each other. And when your predecessor questions the fact that a man can wear a skirt, it is also a matter of homophobia. It must be noted that this is also the case in our Parliament. We must combat this phenomenon, including when our colleagues speak transphobic, homophobic, lesbian and biphobic.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic434x.u10	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for taking stock of the situation. Indeed, discrimination in employment must be combated, whatever the nature of it. If one wants to claim a much more inclusive society, one must allow everyone, regardless of their personal choices, to live fully without discrimination, whether at work or in everyday life. I hear your willingness to work on this issue, with the tools you have recalled. I hope that the figures will be much better in the years to come. Indeed, the increase in discrimination, particularly against transgender people, is quite worrying. We must have the political will to combat this phenomenon, a will that I know you have, and to build up the necessary resources, means that I know you are asking.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic434x.u11	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answers. I welcome your willingness to take up the issue of homophobia and to fight this phenomenon ardently. The murder of homophobic youth took place in Beveren, early March 2021. That is why I think it is good to speak in Dutch. What happened there? A group of young people deliberately set up a gay man by making an appointment with him through a gay dating app. The unsuspecting David Polfliet was the victim of this. That's a hell of a thing, isn't it? It is an expression of a serious development of the extreme right-wing counter-movement, especially in Flanders, which wants to reverse holebi rights. Mr Moutquin has indeed mentioned Poland, but we also have this problem. We need to stop this before it escalates further. We believe that there is a need for broad prevention and awareness to tackle gaybashing and homophobic violence at the root. Those who commit homophobic hate crimes must be seriously punished and supervised. There must also be much more preventive monitoring to detect and stop potential offenders before they commit homophobic acts. Victims of homophobic violence must be given worthy care and proper psychological assistance, if they can still tell, which, unfortunately, was not the case with David Polfliet. Complaints should also be made easier and more easily accessible, for example through structural cooperation with civil society. As you know, Mrs Schlitz, there is a pilot project in Brussels that is promising. This should be extended throughout the country, provided that the necessary people and resources are made available. For that, I count on you, but also on the rest of the government. I hope that you will be able to tackle this issue vigorously and get the resources to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic434x.u12	Mr Francken has asked for his question. 55013676C.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic434x.u13	Mrs Van Peel is not present to ask her question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic434x.u14	Madam Secretary of State, the law of 28 July 2011 aimed at guaranteeing a presence of at least one third of each sex on the boards of directors of autonomous public enterprises, the National Lottery and publicly listed private companies, provides, in particular, for a minimum presence of women in publicly listed companies. Recently, you announced that you would want to revise this quota law. In your own words, "31% of these companies do not meet this quota". An evaluation of the Act will be planned to increase it to 40 per cent instead of the current 33 per cent. Stronger sanctions will be presented. A European directive would also be under preparation. Madam Secretary of State, what agenda have you set to achieve these objectives? Has the evaluation in question already started? How will it be organized in practice and what time frame have been set for achieving its results? If I fully share the objective, how do you intend to ensure compliance with the 40% quota if today a third of the companies do not already meet the current quota? What additional control measures are you planning to take? Finally, what feedback have you received from your government colleagues on this proposal?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic434x.u15	Mr Prévot, the law of 28 July 2011 introducing quotas within the CAs of listed companies provides for different implementation times depending on the size of the company. If large companies listed on the stock exchange had to meet the quota since January 2017, for small businesses, the deadline had been extended until January 2019. As regards financial penalties for non-compliance with the law, these apply only since January 2018 for large listed companies and January 2020 for small businesses. As the two previous evaluations of the Institute for Gender Equality show, the binding approach to quotas is working. The number of women in the CA tripled between 2008 and 2017. It is true that at the time these assessments were carried out, one third of the companies studied did not yet meet the requirements laid down by law. But, as I was telling you, the legislator has given companies time to get in order and, at the time of the first two assessments, the sanctions had not yet come into force. This will, however, be the case in the next evaluation of the implementation of the Act, which is expected to be published by the Institute in early 2022. This third report will therefore be decisive and I look forward to it. I'm pretty confident. According to the Institute's feedback, it appears that companies have fully integrated the obligations and sanctions associated with them. Strengthening the quota law is now the logical continuation of this process. This is an objective that I will pursue in the coming months. As far as the impact of new measures on businesses is concerned, experience has shown us that while sufficient time is foreseen for companies, they are quite capable of absorbing the new rules provided that they are explained and justified.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic434x.u16	Madam Secretary of State, indeed I think that pedagogy, explanation and information are always preferable to sanctions. However, when companies persist, by choice, in failing to apply the quotas imposed by law, these sanctions become mandatory and must be applied. I hear that time has been given to companies to adapt. I share your willingness to go a step further in this quota law. I think it's going in the right direction. I hope, of course, that this 40% can be achieved by knowing that these quotas are mandatory to move the lines, but that, in an ideal world, 50% should be acquired without constraints and without a quota law. But we are not there yet and this law is very necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic434x.u17	Since Mr. Francken has already postponed his question, he cannot postpone it a second time, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Question No 55013676C therefore lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic434x.u18	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, I wrote this question almost two months ago as part of the International Day to Combat Genital Mutilation. It is, of course, an important day on which civil society paid significant attention to this fundamental violation of women's rights and integrity. The latest study on the prevalence of female genital mutilation in Belgium dates from 2018. This study was initiated by the Institute for Gender Equality and was carried out by GAMS. This study states that as of 31 December 2016 - these are old figures - more than 70,000 girls and women from a country where female genital mutilation is practised resided in Belgium. Of these, nearly 26,000 were involved in female genital mutilation, either already excise or at risk, including more than 9,000 minors (under 18 years of age). The report shows that the risk of female circumcision affects both children born abroad or born in Belgium. This practice takes place either in the country of origin during a trip, or in our territory or in a neighbouring European country. Furthermore, the Foreign Litigation Council (CCE) ruled in its judgment of 11 December 2019 that the parent of a child recognized as a refugee because of a risk of genital mutilation has no right to derived refugee status. The EAC further considered that there was a legal vacuum on the issue. As a result, underage girls find themselves in untenable situations in our territory. When asked by my colleague Simon Moutquin, Secretary of State Sammy Mahdi informed us that his office was examining the possibility of another right of residence for parents in this situation. He pointed out that the 9bis procedure was the only legal way, but that as soon as an application for international protection on that basis was made by a child, the Aliens Office automatically looked at whether the parents had submitted a 9bis application and, if so, processed the application "as soon as possible". Madam Secretary of State, there has been no more numerical report since 2018. Do you intend to achieve one and, if so, within what time frame? What strategy exists at Belgian level in relation to these practices contrary to human rights? Are you involved in finding a solution for another right of residence for the parents of refugee girls for the risk of female genital mutilation?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic434x.u19	On 20 January, Madam Secretary of State, I asked the Minister of Justice about the increase in female genital mutilation (FGM) and the measures to be taken to combat it. In response, he explained to me that "the number of cases opened and prosecutions initiated does not allow an image to be drawn of the criminological phenomenon of female genital mutilation in Belgium. Such mutilations may be carried out in Belgium without filing a complaint or informing the public prosecutor. The small number of cases registered under the prevention code "sexual assault" can also be explained by the fact that prosecutors did not register the MGF file under this code but under the codes of "volunteer assaults and injuries" or "indecent assaults". In this case, these records are statistically invisible. He also told me that in 2018, only four cases had been brought before the criminal courts and yet three of them were dismissed. These figures show that there is still work to be done. However, the associations are sounding alarm bells. On 6 February, the Group for the Abolition of Sexual Mutilations (GAMS), quoted earlier by Ms. de Laveleye, and the Centre d'Action Laique both protested to actively combat such acts, both in a preventive and repressive manner. In Belgium, in 2019, an estimated 18,000 women were excised and 8,000 girls were at risk of being excised. The figures differ according to the sources of information and, in so doing, we do not have a clear idea of the extent of the phenomenon. Therefore, Madam Secretary of State, what is the status of your consultation with the Minister of Justice on this matter? Were female genital mutilation included in the sexual violence component of the current reform of the Criminal Code? What concrete steps will be taken to respond to the European Parliament's resolution of 12 February 2020, which calls on Member States to put an end to FGM? Parliament was extremely concerned about the apparent ineffectiveness of criminal law in view of the derisory number of cases brought before the courts, as is the case in Belgium, which is confirmed by the figures provided by the Minister of Justice. To what extent, today, is the reporting code developed by the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men used? What awareness-raising campaigns are being or should be conducted for the communities concerned? What is the timing and what are the stakeholders? Are GAMS and the Centre Médical d'Aide aux Victimes de l'Excision (CemaViE at CHU Saint-Pierre in Brussels) closely associated with your work? Is it planned to promote this centre in the light of its expertise in this field for more than 30 years? What is the status of your consultation with the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration regarding the international protection status of the girl child concerned and their parents?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic434x.u20	Dear colleagues, thank you for your questions. Female genital mutilation (FGM) is an unacceptable violation of women's and children's rights. This practice must be prevented and assistance provided to women, girls and families who wish to protect their daughters, regardless of their administrative or personal circumstances. As you pointed out, Ms. de Laveleye, updated data is needed to better understand the extent of the problem and to better target the actions to be taken. In collaboration with the Minister of Health, I will soon launch a new study on the prevalence of FGM in Belgium. These new data are expected to be available later next year. While our country is recognized for its policy of combating FGM, it is largely due to the quality work done by field associations. They must be supported by all levels of government in order to carry out new awareness-raising, prevention, training and facilitation activities with communities or local stakeholders. I am concerned about the inclusion of FGM in the framework of the right of residence. I have met with my colleague, the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, and I would like to move forward on this issue in cooperation with him. I am pleased to hear in your speeches the openings which he has also made to Parliament in relation to the progress made in these rights. I will pay particular attention to the implementation of the Istanbul Convention and the GREVIO recommendations concerning the protection of migrant women. Together with my colleague the Minister of Health, I will also discuss the effective implementation of the law of 18 June 2018 so that each hospital systematically records data on FGM in the relevant medical records. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic434x.u21	Madam Secretary of State, when I hear the different perspectives you give in terms of study, I think it is really important. The issues cannot be addressed if they are not perceived to be significant. So I'm glad to know it's launched and we'll have some information next year. You are quite right to point out the exceptional work of the actors on the ground, who work day-to-day and who are sometimes well-known or poorly-recognized. They really need to be given the necessary financial support. You are right to point out that this support comes not only from the federal but also from the Communities; it must be continued and increased. I think it is very important to note the recording of each of these types of damage in order to better understand the situation. We will continue the follow-up work with Mr Moutquin and other colleagues here, with Secretary of State Sammy Mahdi too; indeed, solutions must be found. The essential thing is that we are well aware that this is a fundamental violation of women's rights and that we must never reduce custody. The situation of women in general has deteriorated sharply in recent months and we should not fall back again. This struggle requires our full attention and yours, Madam Secretary of State. I'm glad to hear that this is the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic434x.u22	Madam Secretary of State, thank you very much for your answers and for the measures you intend to implement to combat female genital mutilation. The federal government is right to insist on prevention, but also on exemptions from professional secrecy in the head of doctors and PMS centres in schools. Don't put everyone in the same basket. There are girls who are alone, who are put at risk by their own families, but there are also parents who want to help these girls. For preventive measures to be effective, there must be a clear view of the phenomenon and the profile of the girl child. I understand that a study on the prevalence of female genital mutilation has been commissioned in consultation with the Minister of Health. It's a great thing. However, care must also be taken to ensure that the criminal law is properly enforced by registering female genital mutilation under the correct code of prevention. It is very useful for hospitals to be called upon to record the facts of which they are aware, but there is a real need to alert and sensitize prosecutors so that they too can do their part of the work and properly record the acts of female genital mutilation. Without this, we will not have a clear view of the phenomenon and therefore we will not be able to adopt targeted and effective measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic434x.u23	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, you have recently obtained that the recovery plan financed by the European Union carries out a systematic gender analysis of each subsidised project. By the time I put my question, it was in the process of being completed. We welcome this initiative. Indeed, as you have mentioned in the press, some categories of women are more distant from the labour market, while many projects are still too "male" in occupations. Madam Secretary of State, what are the criteria taken into account in the analysis of projects funded by the recovery plan? How will this be taken into account in the adoption of the various projects?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic434x.u24	As Mrs Maria Vindevoghel is retained in the Committee on Mobility, her question is over.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic434x.u25	Madame de Laveleye, thank you for your question. Again this morning, I discovered a new report on this subject, prepared this time by the World Economic Forum and demonstrating that the pandemic is delaying progress towards gender equality by a generation. The reconstruction of our society will have to take this into account. That's why I got gendermainstreaming applied to the recovery plan as a whole. Several working groups have thus been set up. At my request, the Institute for Gender Equality was integrated into the Impact Working Group in early December 2020. He was asked to assess the impact in terms of gender equality of all the fact sheets of the plan in each of its axes. This assessment measures the impact of the project from the point of view of equality of women and men, according to their nature and objectives, as well as its impact on their respective situation in the labour market. The Institute has categorised projects according to whether their objectives lead a priori to a positive impact, a potential impact or any impact on the equality of women and men. Recommendations have been developed to ensure that projects in the second category have the most positive impact in this direction. A few days ago, the result of this categorization was forwarded to the office of the Secretary of State for Recovery. Consequently, the latter is now responsible for the completion of the plan, before transmitting it to the European Commission. In conclusion, a gender dimension will occupy a cross-cutting dimension throughout the recovery plan as communicated to the Commission. Its final shipment is scheduled for the end of April at the latest.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic434x.u26	Madam Secretary of State, I would like to stress again the so relevant approach, which must not be easy to obtain, which is to require a gendermainstreaming of this recovery plan. Fortunately, we do not have 20 opportunities for such a plan. We cannot afford to miss the goal. There are various challenges to be addressed, but equality between women and men must take place at the heart of the recovery project. So it is with interest that I learn that the government has integrated it as a result of your initiative. It is interesting that the Institute has made recommendations. You say they were passed on to the Secretary of State for Recovery. We have not yet received feedback on how the recommendations have been effectively integrated. Making recommendations is one thing, and I thank you for making them. But it would be interesting to have a somewhat more concrete view of how these recommendations were incorporated into the recovery plan. You were right to point out that the World Economic Forum has just published new figures. We need 135 years on a global scale to achieve parity. We also know that Belgium has been making efforts for a long time and is not the worst of all, but we are far from being champions. I intend to speak to your colleague to find out exactly how these recommendations have been incorporated. I call on you to be effective in following up on those recommendations in the recovery plan, although I am sure that will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic434x.u27	Mrs Van Peel is not present to ask her question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic434x.u28	Madam Secretary of State, February 6 was International Day Against Female Genital Mutilation. We understand that you, together with Minister Vandenbroucke, are conducting an investigation into the extent of the problem in our country, as well as into the background of the victims. In this way, you hope to be able to formulate a more targeted policy. The Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration is also not unsatisfied. He pays EUR 16,000 per year for training and training of staff in the asylum centres. Madam Secretary of State, let it be very clear that we support this 100%. I therefore hope that you will share the results of the inquiry with Parliament. Unfortunately, genital mutilation is not just a matter of girls. Figures from 2018 show that 44 percent of the youngsters were circumcised in Belgium. A record in Europe, more than eight times higher than in the Netherlands, for example. Medically, that figure should be between 0.5 and 1%, or 250 boys instead of 25.946. The difference is enormous and also very different from the countries around us. Circumcision of boys is also refunded in our country, which is of course normal if it is for medical reasons. However, the figures show that this is only the case in a small number of the interventions. From different angles there is a gradual reaction, including from the Child Rights Commissioner in Flanders and from the Mens.nu. There are more and more pleas for awareness and for delaying the procedure, unless there are medical reasons. Madam Secretary of State, what is your position on this? Are you planning any action in this regard? Do you consider it one of your priorities? How do you feel about reimbursement for no medical reason?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic434x.u29	Madam Secretary of State, the introduction has already been made. The fact that 44 percent of the youngsters were circumcised in Belgium in 2018 is a hugely high figure. There are also refunds for non-medical treatment. The question is whether reimbursement is still ethical, especially when it comes to treatment that is non-medical and does not seek the consent of the person concerned. Society needs to think about this, which the Belgian Advisory Committee on Bioethics has also done in an opinion. It clearly stated that it belongs to the right of a religion to decide whether or not to circumcision. The question must be asked whether circumcision should be repaid. We are one of the few countries if not the only country to pay back circumcision. That is why I have the following question, which is in line with Mrs Jiroflée's question. Does circumcision have to be repaid? In any case, our position is that the refund should not be made. Forbidden is another matter. That would be too far-reaching. However, we must consider whether society should pay back the medical circumcision that is not necessary. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic434x.u30	Mrs Jiroflée, Mrs Van Hoof, in my capacity as Federal Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities, I am aware that circumcision of men and boys is, for non-medical reasons, a practice which occurs regularly and on which there are very different opinions. A particular point of interest to me is that both the right to physical integrity and freedom of religion must be safeguarded. The different views on this practice were collected by the Institute following a broad consultation of experts and field organisations, such as J@M vzw. In the context of the preparation of a new draft national action plan to combat all forms of gender-based violence, the Institute presented to me the different positions prevailing in the debate on the circumcision of boys and men. I will study them and, in the context of the adoption of a new national action plan, consider whether the current policy needs to be adapted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic434x.u31	Madam Secretary of State, I am pleased that you want to get on with this. For me, it's about the physical integrity of little boys. Again, I have nothing against circumcision if one can decide for oneself. It seems to me that making a directive to wait for the intervention to reach an age when men can decide for themselves would be a minimum. If you are going to think about this, perhaps it would also be good to consult with Minister Vandenbroucke. on reimbursement
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic434x.u32	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your reply. It is clear that you want to look at the matter on the basis of recommendations and what lives in society. I would also remind you of the recommendations of this committee concerning intersex persons. There too, permission has been taken as a basis. That was about something far-reaching, but I also find this far-reaching, perhaps not at the same level, but the principle is the same. If something is not medically necessary, one has to be able to decide for oneself whether one wants it or not. There's also a patient's right. I think that we should dare to go through with this. It also includes religious freedom, which makes it more complex, but it must not destroy the aspect of physical integrity. A ban is another aspect. Refunding it seems to me to be far-reaching. I also think that the fact that we could commit to this intervention is an important aspect.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic434x.u33	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, in the coming months, the discussions in the Interministerial Conference (IMC) Women's Rights will revolve around sexism in the real and virtual public space, menstrual precariousness and the strengthening of the mix in all occupations and occupations of the future. The law on sexism in public space will also be evaluated. The next ICD Women's Rights to be attended by the Minister of Pensions and Social Integration, Karine Lalieux, and the Minister of the Interior, Annelies Verlinden, is scheduled for the beginning of June. Madam Secretary of State, how have these themes been defined? How will women's rights associations and field institutions be involved? What agenda and methodology have already been set for each of the three themes?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic434x.u34	Mr President, Mr Prévot, the Walloon Region and the German-speaking Community have co-chaired the ICD since 19 December. The co-chairperson proposed various topics of work to the other ICD members. They had the opportunity to discuss it and agreed to select these themes as priorities for the coming months. Women's rights associations and field institutions participate in inter-cabinet meetings held on the margins of the ICD, which I particularly welcome. They bring real added value by presenting their findings and recommendations. They thus feed into the subsequent reflections at the level of the members of the ICD. Two intercabinets meetings have already taken place last February, respectively, on menstrual precariousness and sexism in the real and virtual public space. These meetings should continue. Specific working groups will be set up under the guidance of certain ministerial powers. In this way, I will co-pilot the sexism working group, while actively participating in the other working groups. The Presidency of the Walloon Region and the German-speaking Community will conclude on 18 October. The aim is to achieve by then new measures addressing these priority themes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic434x.u35	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for drawing up the programme for the coming months. It was indeed essential to involve women's rights associations from the outset. We always have everything to gain by involving them as quickly as possible in the processes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic434x.u36	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, in a large interview in L'Echo, you mentioned your goal of increasing the employment rate of women. They are, in fact, less represented than men in many sectors or in certain senior positions. This is obviously a major political issue in terms of women's empowerment and rights. You mentioned vaguely, in this interview, measures affecting audiences more distant from the labour market, entrepreneurship or an awareness-raising website. What are your specific objectives in this regard? In concrete terms, what measures are you planning to achieve these objectives? What schedule have you set? Is it possible to work with Parliament, given that we have many proposals that could promote women's employment but also the fight against discrimination against women in the labour market?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic434x.u37	Mr President, Mr Prévot, the European Commission has set an employment rate target of 78% by 2030, with a reduction of half of the gender gap. The federal government has set a national target of 80% by 2030. In 2019, the employment rate for women was only 66.5%, while the employment rate for men was 74.5%. Increasing the employment rate of women, and in particular those most vulnerable, is a necessity. This must go hand in hand with an improvement in the quality of these jobs. The 2021 report of the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men on the wage gap recalls the impact of occupational and sectoral segregation on the wage gap. The crisis of the covid-19 highlighted these professions that are essential to the proper functioning of society, mainly by women and very poorly paid. We need to think about how to improve these jobs and sectors. In this regard, a debate on the concept of equal pay for work of equal value, regardless of the sector, could be conducted here in the Federal Parliament. Of course, a better employment rate for women also requires more equality between men and women in the private sphere. That is why I would like to reflect with my colleague in charge of employment on the leave system, in order to encourage co-parents to make more use of it in addition to the extension of the parental leave which has just been granted on 1 January 2021 and which will be extended to 20 days by 2024. I hear that Parliament has proposals to strengthen women's employment. Of course, we are well aware that we can contribute and co-build these solutions together. The energy of all will be needed to achieve this ambitious and important goal.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic434x.u38	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answers. You have to work on several parts, as you said. Firstly, the upgrading of the social professions: this is a series of jobs that have held our country and our health at arm's length since the beginning of this crisis. These are mainly women's jobs. It is absolutely necessary to revalue them. Second, the increase in the employment rate: the federal government has set itself the target of 80% by 2030. This objective will have to be pursued despite the present difficulties, which are further exacerbated by the crisis. For the rest, I hear your openness to continue working with Parliament. There are, in our group as elsewhere, some interesting texts to consult. I will certainly contact you and your firm to send them to you. We all have to gain from working in a healthy synergy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic434x.u39	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, this is an extremely sensitive subject. Consequential confinements to combat the covid-19 epidemic have apparently catalyzed a problem that is still far too marginalized in our country, namely forced marriages. The Act of 25 April 2007 inserting an article 391sexies into the Criminal Code and amending certain provisions of the Civil Code with a view to criminalizing and expanding the means of cancelling forced marriage will be 14 years old this year. Under this law, "there is no marriage (...) when it is contracted without the free consent of both spouses and the consent of at least one of the spouses has been given under violence or threat". Honor killings related to refusals, runaways or the mere desire to be recognized as a victim do not diminish, but on the contrary. Many associations have recently come to me to talk about it and to discuss in particular the question of name change. They have been concerned about this for some time. The change of name is indeed one of the means of action, even if it is not the panacea, at the disposal of the victims to first protect themselves and then rebuild themselves. The royal decree regulating the change of name, however, seems, for many associations, somewhat lacunae concerning them. Madam Secretary of State, have you ever heard of the difficulties in changing names for victims of a crime of honour and forced marriage? Are solutions envisaged in this niche? Has any consultation with the Minister of the Interior ever taken place on this specific issue? What about civil society? Has this already been discussed in a recent ICD Women's Rights?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic434x.u40	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, every year millions of underage girls are forced to marry against their will at a very young age. So it's about marriages under physical and/or moral compulsion. While physical compulsion is easily recognizable, moral compulsion is often a lot more subtle and therefore difficult to detect. In Belgium, forced marriages in the Criminal Code were punishable after the law of 25 April 2007 introduced the article 146ter into the Civil Code. That article states, I quote: 'There is no marriage when it is entered into without the free consent of both spouses and the consent of at least one of the spouses was given under violence or threat'. The law of 2 June 2013 provided for a heavier punishment of forced marriages and marriages of convenience. In addition, forced legal cohabitation and bogus cohabitation were also punishable by that law. Since 2010, the fight against forced marriages has been part of a national action plan. Belgium has chosen to pay particular attention to prevention. For example, awareness and training programmes are organized for young girls and boys, primarily in schools. Several tools show what they can do to avoid forced marriage or what they can do if they are in that situation. There is also attention to awareness-raising and training programmes for police and judicial professionals and in health, education and the social sector. These specific trainings allow to address the problems young girls and women face in legal, cultural and family terms. What specific measures have been taken recently by you in the field of prevention? What are the results in terms of awareness-raising measures and measures to ensure effective follow-up of victims? How many complaints about a forced marriage have been registered in the last two years? In how many cases were these child marriages?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic434x.u41	Colleagues, the duration of the change of name procedure is indeed long and entails significant procedural costs. Various protective measures can be taken to protect victims of violence related to honour killings and forced marriages. They may also benefit from protective measures in the course of judicial proceedings, in particular with regard to the protection of privacy. The Witness Protection Commission may also provide protection to threatened witnesses, family members and parents who are expected to testify during an investigation. Nevertheless, I am of course in favour of any measure that could further improve the protection of victims. The issue of changing the names of victims of a crime of honour or forced marriage has not been addressed in the ICD Women's Rights. The fight against forced marriage is not limited to criminal measures. Preventive action is essential by, for example, allowing a potential victim to benefit from a ban on leaving the country. Our country introduced a criminal policy circular in June 2017 that covers this issue (Col 6/2017). It is a good instrument, but it is still too unknown to field workers and victims. It is essential to strengthen networking at the local level so that professionals collaborate more effectively and more effectively in dealing with such situations. An assessment of the conditions of application of this circular is also planned in order to improve the implementation of this instrument. Civil registrars have a role to play in detecting forced marriages. That is why the IEFH issued a code a few weeks ago to report forced marriages for use by registrars. The feedback is currently positive, but the use of this reporting code will soon be further evaluated by the Institute. On this basis, I will consult with the ministers concerned to consider setting up specific training courses. According to the crime statistics, 29 complaints about forced marriages were submitted to the police in 2018 and 20 complaints in 2019. In the first six months of 2020, 4 complaints were also lodged, but many situations are certainly not reported to the authorities. I do not have reliable information on the number of forced marriages involving minors. I refer you to my colleagues in Justice and Home Affairs for more information on complaints to Justice and the police.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic434x.u42	Madam Secretary of State, as I said, the issue of forced marriages, but also crimes of honour, is of course the concern of many of the associations that have asked me. This theme is all the more burning because, as you have pointed out, official figures are "grey" - just like those of domestic violence. The taboo persists, as the word does not free itself. The associations also report that other crimes have certainly been committed without our knowledge. Falls and burns could have been disguised, and suicides hidden. Moreover, according to the voluntary sector, which records many cases annually, the scale of these events is not yet at the point of justice and the police. For this reason, the question of training, which you have mentioned, seems to me essential. If we want to avoid the commission of other crimes, it is naturally necessary to protect the victims. Although this is not the panacea, the name change is part of the protective measures. You recalled that such procedures were lengthy and costly. That is why I hope that we will be able to find solutions complementary to those you have been kind enough to mention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic434x.u43	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answers. If we compare these figures with what is really going on, I can see that very little has been reported. This means that there is still a lot of work to be done when it comes to this. These young girls don't dare come out openly. The social pressure is so high that we should actually look for the victims. Sensitisation campaigns in schools can really help. Young girls need to know what a forced marriage is, not to be able to file a complaint until afterwards. 20 in 2018 and 20 in 2019, that's nothing compared to what's going on in society. I hope you put this at the heart of the matter, because these girls would have a very different future if they could have a normal evolution in life.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic434x.u44	Madam Secretary of State, thank you. I am not sure if your national plan of action against violence would integrate these dimensions. That was in my questions. You're acquiescing. Thank you. Because your answer was enough, I missed that information. This seems important to me because if your action plan can identify the levers, it will allow us to move forward on this important issue. Unfortunately, coercion and coercion remain in many different forms. This is the reality of many women in our society. The issue of forced marriage is perhaps the most successful view of this constraint. My colleagues have done well to stress the importance of field work, associations and people of good will. Without them, there would be much more difficulty for young women who find the courage and networks to escape a situation of coercion. As far as the question of name change is concerned, I would be interested in an in-depth work because we also hear the violence that it represents to erase his identity. There is, of course, the question of the survival and maintenance of its integrity in relation to an abuse, but then we must continue to live under another identity. It's an inquisitive thing! It would be really interesting to go into the details of this question. Of course, a woman will always be free to change her name or not. Your national plan of action will be read with particular interest on these issues, too, to see how we can move forward to best protect young women in these situations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic434x.u45	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, on 9 March the new evaluation report on abortion legislation in our country was presented in this committee. That report shall also contain recommendations on making contraception accessible. There are still too many thresholds in our country today that prevent good access to contraception, not least a financial threshold. For example, contraception is refunded up to the age of 25 years, but not after that. The evaluation report of the National Committee for Evaluation of Pregnancy Abruptties shows that women aged 25 to 35 are most likely to have to have abortion. A large proportion of these pregnancies could be avoided by adequate access to contraception. Madam Secretary of State, I have the following questions. How will you work together with the rest of the government to improve access to contraception, especially in the financial field? What will you do with the recommendations in the report of the National Evaluation Committee on Pregnancy Abruption?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic434x.u46	Mrs Vindevoghel, you know my commitment to contraception and reproductive and sexual health in general. I am committed to looking, together with Minister Vandenbroucke, at what initiatives the government can take in this area. As funding falls within his remit, you should address him for further questions. At the moment, Parliament is in favour of the debate on abortion. I call on everyone to conduct this important debate in a constructive manner, based on scientific evidence and taking into account the needs of all women in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic434x.u47	Madam Secretary of State, I may not have to tell you that we think this is very important. In your policy statement, you also stated that you attach great importance to this. Of course, there is a price to pay, but the accessibility of contraception is an important aspect of the abortion debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic434x.u48	Madam Secretary of State, recently the members of this committee received the Recommendation 2021-R/001 from the Institute for Equality between Women and Men (IGVM) on the implementation of the ILO Convention No 190 on the Elimination of Violence and Harassment in the World of Work. That treaty is an important milestone at international level. Trade unions, companies and governments finally reached an agreement to tackle violence and intimidation in the workplace. The Convention also devotes a great deal of attention to gender-based violence and sexual harassment in the workplace. In the meantime, the IGVM has analysed what needs to be changed in Belgian legislation and policy to ratify and ratify the Convention. I have a few questions about this. When exactly will the government ratify and ratify the treaty? Can you indicate which recommendations of the Institute you will follow and which, if any, will not? Can you also give the reasons for this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic434x.u49	Mrs Vindevoghel, the ratification of ILO Convention 190 is an important issue for well-being at work and for strengthening the position of women in the labour market. This is one of the levers to facilitate the integration of women, especially in larger male-dominated settings. I am therefore particularly attentive to this. Ratification is the responsibility of the Federal Minister for Work and of the Regional Ministers for Work. The commitment to ratify this Convention was one of the discussions of the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Women's Rights on 25 January 2021. The ratification process is under way. The recommendations of the IGSM will be taken into account in the preparation of the future national action plan against gender-based violence, which I would like to propose shortly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic434x.u50	Madam Secretary of State, I have mentioned this matter a few times. There was the story of the service cheque business sector, which was the subject of a study by the trade union. Last week, I saw a victim of sexual behavior on the premises of SNCB. I am therefore pleased that we will continue to work on this and hope that we will make rapid progress in it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic434x.u51	On 20 February, I read in De Morgen that a recent report by the European Agency for Fundamental Rights shows that 8 out of 10 young women sometimes do not dare to enter a particular public place because of fear of sexual harassment. The problem is particularly serious in the big cities. The report also investigated the phenomenon in men. For them, the numbers were much lower. Sexual harassment on the street is therefore a sexist problem that affects women in particular. The sexism law that was created in 2014 appears to be barely working. The main problem is that infringements are difficult to identify. Obviously, the unsub doesn't give his name to the victim. So the burden of proof for the incident lies with the victim. The police indicate that it is currently difficult to catch perpetrators in the act. Therefore, a few weeks ago, the Brussels police set up a pilot project with patrols of civilian agents to actively detect street harassment. Do you intend to release more resources and staff to roll out civilian police patrols actively tracking down street harassment across the country? How do you intend to deal seriously with the problem of street harassment together with your fellow ministers?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic434x.u52	Madam Secretary of State, the introduction of curfew has significantly increased women's sense of insecurity on the streets, especially in large cities. Today, a woman who walks alone in the evening feels even less secure than before, since empty streets mean that there is almost no one to ask for help in the event of harassment or assault. However, some women are obliged to travel during curfews, whether they are looking for their children after work, walking their dogs, going to work or returning from work. It is a question of responding to a feeling of insecurity but also to real insecurity, as the whistles on so-called essential trips increase, as well as the messages on social networks that legitimize rape or even consist of warnings of aggression. Madam Secretary of State, is a study planned to measure the impact of curfew on women's insecurity? What do you intend to do to make women feel safer in public spaces, especially at night and at night during curfews? Is there any consultation on this matter with the Minister of the Interior, but also with local police areas and women's rights associations? Are you planning to deploy more police officers on the streets during the curfew?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic434x.u53	Dear colleagues, thank you for putting this important subject on the agenda. I would like to point out that women who are forced to travel during curfew because they are seeking help to protect themselves can do so at any time. I have repeatedly highlighted this public message in recent months. Of course, this does not solve the problem of harassment that they may suffer in public space. This harassment is unacceptable and punishable by law. He sent a message to women that they were not welcome in the public space and that they would not have their place in it. This is a huge challenge in terms of gender equality. Strengthening local police in the fight against sexual harassment is the responsibility of my fellow Minister of the Interior, along with the mayors at local level. The fight against sexism in the real and virtual public space is one of the priority themes discussed in the ICD Women's Rights since 25 January 2021, since the new co-chairdom took office. A specific meeting on this issue was held in February. The initiative that has been in place since last summer in the Liège police area has attracted my particular attention. This pilot project is now also under way in Brussels. I would like to point out that, in my view, the repression alone will not be able to solve this problem. The prevention and education of federated entities must be at the heart of this policy. Work within the IMC will continue in the coming months to take concrete action, but also in the context of the elaboration of the next National Action Plan to combat gender-based violence. Of course, women's associations will be co-ordinated during the development of this new plan, as well as for its implementation and evaluation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic434x.u54	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State. I believe that these are good initiatives. However, I must say that I was a little shocked by Mr De Croo's tweet, which launched on 8 March that Belgium is a good student, as if there were no gender issues here. I believe that this issue shows that there is still a great deal of work to be done. The initiatives now under way are a good step, but at least we are aware that there is still a great deal of work to be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic434x.u55	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answers. I am very pleased to hear that this issue is on the agenda of the ICD Women's Rights. I wanted to bounce back on the Belgian project to fight against sexism. Indeed, I had asked the Minister of the Interior about this on 24 February. She was aware that this was a good practice and a commendable initiative. However, she felt – like you – that this measure was not the panacea. Therefore, it considered it essential to focus our efforts on prevention. I totally agree. However, this practice should be widespread in large cities, especially during the curfew period. That is why I urge you, the Minister of the Interior and yourself, to draw up a real reflection with a view to generalising this scheme – especially since it has achieved fairly good results. As you mentioned, this is a fundamental issue for women's empowerment. Moreover, the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights objected to it, establishing that 80% of young Europeans avoid certain places or neighbourhoods, for fear of their safety. We cannot accept it, because public space belongs to them as much as to men.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic434x.u56	Madam Secretary of State, over the past few months, we have seen an alarming increase in the number of feminicides. Last year an average of two feminicides were recorded per month, but in 2021 we already see an increase to three feminicides per month. That's a very high grade. If it goes on like this, we'll be doubling by the end of the year. So we really need to step up on that plane. Every woman affected by this is one too many. What actions will you take to ensure that this trend does not continue? What have you done specifically to prevent feminicide since you became Secretary of State? What steps have been taken?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic434x.u57	Madam Secretary of State, the tragedy in Braine-le-Comte brought the number of femicides in Belgium in 2021 to eight, as indicated by the field associations, since there is still no official census in our country. The numbers are very worrying and the multiple periods of confinement accelerate the processes of violence, lock victims in and increase the risk of dramatic outcomes in families and couples where violence is present. Field associations say and repeat, calls and requests for assistance explode and victims are at greater risk than usual. Madam Secretary of State, a federal action plan to combat gender and domestic violence following the second wave of covid-19 was approved last November. What concrete actions have been put in place in this context today? What is the status of the awareness-raising campaign to remind the public of the various emergency numbers provided for in the plan? A meeting was initiated by you with the Minister of Justice and the Minister of the Interior. Have you been able to take stock of the situation? If so, what are the findings of this meeting? Have you been able to discuss the synergies to be put in place to effectively combat domestic violence, specifically during this particular period of containment?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic434x.u58	Madam Secretary of State, at a previous meeting I asked a question about tackling gender-based violence about the implementation of your federal action plan. You didn't really answer that question at the time. Last Monday we noticed that on the occasion of the eighth femicide you took the flight ahead. In the press, an emergency meeting was held with Justice and Home Affairs Ministers to speed up the pace. That meeting was announced in the media with a lot of noise, but after that we have again heard nothing of it. Through civil society, we received a general press release, but it did not contain much more than the repetition of some good intentions in the long term, which did not tell us where your action plan is currently being implemented. Madam Secretary of State, that is why I am partly repeating my questions. What concrete decisions were taken at that meeting with your fellow ministers to improve the implementation of the federal action plan against gender-based violence? Where are the biggest bottlenecks and what will you do to tackle them? How will you ensure that the new national action plan against gender-based violence is properly implemented from the outset? Which indicators will you work with? How will you monitor the implementation of the plan on a regular basis, so that you do not have to come to the conclusion again after five months that there has not actually been much of it?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic434x.u59	Madam Secretary of State, we have all been appalled to learn of the decision of the Turkish President, Mr Erdogan, to withdraw from the Istanbul Convention on 19 March, which is still the first legally binding instrument in the world to combat violence against women and domestic violence. It therefore concerns both women and children. This withdrawal is a real slap for the Democrats because it is an extremely valuable tool in our fight against violence against women and children, because it serves as a road map for States, stressing the need to articulate this struggle around the 4P: integrated policies; prevention; protection and support; prosecution. This withdrawal took place without any parliamentary debate or consultation with Turkish civil society being allowed to take place in advance. This decision by Turkey, which was the first country to ratify the Istanbul Convention in 2012, sends an extremely negative signal that could influence other European countries such as Poland or Hungary to take the same decision. This withdrawal means an unacceptable decline in women's rights in Europe. In this regard, the Minister of Foreign Affairs was questioned in plenary on March 25. In particular, she referred to the financing of support actions through the Council of Europe. For the rest, it prefers to favour a close diplomatic relationship with Turkey, "a positive pattern" in which "the ball is in Turkey's camp", rather than a hardening of tone and even less possible sanctions. Given this rather disappointing answer, I had to question you. Madam Secretary of State, do you intend to send a strong response to Turkey? Until when can Turkey reconsider its decision? What are the levers we have at Belgian and European level? Do you share the caution of the Minister of Foreign Affairs? What can we really expect from Turkey in this matter? Finally, do you not fear that Turkey's decision will have a snowball effect and that, in this case, other European countries, such as Hungary or Poland, will also be tempted to withdraw from the Istanbul Convention? What are you thinking about in order to avoid it? Let me turn to my second question, which concerns measures to combat femicides in our country. [[I'm]] Madam Secretary of State, violence against women is a scourge, an endemic problem that occurs in a society that remains marked by patriarchy and where being a woman remains a source of insecurity. Let us bear in mind that a political will finally seems to exist to respond to this scourge, whose femicides constitute the most serious and abject violence: the Interministerial Conference Women's Rights has been mobilizing for almost a year against this violence; the Federal Parliament voted on 11 June last for my motion for a resolution calling on the judiciary and the police to generalize good practices in this field; your government agreement intends to make the fight against gender violence a priority; your initiative to convene a meeting with Ministers Verlinden and Van Quickenborne and your desire to give Belgium a framework law on gender-based violence, starting from the Spanish example. These are real advances, we must recognize it. Except that, in fact, femicides continue. According to the blog "Stop Femicide", 24 femicides were committed in 2020. In other words, 24 women were killed because they were women. And in 2021 there were already eight femicides, twice as many as in previous years on the same date. Behind these figures are women, broken lives, families destroyed by mourning and the inability of justice to protect them. Therefore, Madam Secretary of State, what concrete steps have you taken at your meeting with the Ministers of Justice and the Interior? What will be the outline of the framework law that you have announced? What do you think of the mechanisms developed in certain cities, such as Lyon, which allow women to ask bus drivers to stop between two stops after a certain hour in the evening so that they can be as close to their home as possible? Could this idea be raised in the Interministerial Conference on Women's Rights?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic434x.u60	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, since the beginning of the year eight women and six children have been killed in the context of domestic violence in Belgium, which is an average twice as high as in previous years. As you know, measures to combat the pandemic have greatly aggravated domestic violence. I myself commissioned a study on this subject from the University of Ghent as part of the federal pandemic action plan to which you referred. The results are being refined and I will inform you as soon as possible. I work in collaboration with IEFH on the new national plan to combat gender-based violence. I attach great importance to close cooperation with civil society, both in the adoption of this plan and in the monitoring and evaluation of these measures. I will soon meet with the actors on the ground to clearly define the basis for this collaboration. In addition, the measures in the plan will also be measurable so that we can monitor their implementation properly. The IEFH will also be at the heart of the device. Strengthening the fight against gender-based violence also requires strengthening the institution responsible for coordinating gender-based violence policy. The government agreement demonstrated the Government's commitment and ambition to equality between women and men and the fight against gender-based violence. This commitment to strengthen the Institute will therefore be dealt with as soon as possible within the government, in accordance with the government agreement. Following the murder of Braine-le-Comte, I took the initiative of a meeting between the Van Quickenborne and Verlinden firms on Tuesday 23 March to react as quickly as possible to this alarming situation. Our three offices recognize the seriousness of the facts and the urgency of a better understanding and diagnosis of the importance of the phenomenon of violence against women in Belgium. We also strongly reiterated our commitment to the implementation of the Istanbul Convention and the GREVIO recommendations. This commitment requires a willingness to implement a gender reading in prevention, protection and prosecution. I see once again that this femicide is the terrible result of an escalation of violence, with a victim who had already appealed to the police or to the justice system. Too often the authors are known and yet this does not prevent new dramas. This chain of violence must be broken as soon as possible. Justice services and police officers play a crucial role in the care of these victims and in the interruption of the cycle of violence. I am also working closely with my colleagues Verlinden and Van Quickenborne on a series of concrete measures to equip, support and improve the expertise of justice and police professionals. We will also examine the possibility of Belgium adopting a framework law on gender-based violence, based on the successful Spanish example. This framework law must restructure existing legislation, which is often fragmented and difficult to read. There is a clear link between feminicide and intrafamilial violence. Since the beginning of my mandate as Federal Secretary of State in charge of gender equality, I have been very attentive to the issue of intra-family violence. For example, I initiated the federal action plan to combat gender-related and intra-family violence following the second wave of COVID-19. Studies also show that there is also a link between feminicide and stalking. In 2019, a mobile stalking alert was developed for victims of life-threatening stalking by an ex-partner. A pilot project in Ghent examined how this mobile stalking alarm could be linked in Belgium to a multidisciplinary consultation to stop the stalker, to ensure the safety of the victim and to provide guidance for both victims, perpetrators and any children. The evaluation phase of the pilot project in Ghent was recently completed. I am currently investigating the possibilities and bottlenecks of a national roll-out of the project. The final policy evaluation of this pilot project is foreseen for autumn 2021. With regard to the Federal Action Plan during the co-vid period last November, €300,000 was allocated to the Platform Sexual Violence.be in order to continue the excellent work it provides. The awareness-raising campaign you mentioned will be on the table at the Council of Ministers this Friday to finally be launched. I also asked the Institute for an analysis of the application of the other measures, such as the recall of victims by the police stations. The report will be available shortly. In addition, I have released a million euros as part of the Vulnerable Groups Task Force to support 27 structures that accommodate women victims of violence who were and are still overwhelmed by demands. I salute their colossal work. I have also allocated a similar amount to create, in the three regions, some 30 emergency accommodation places in order to accommodate LGBTQI+ audiences who are victims of domestic violence or placed at the door of their home. I would like to recall here, as I had done on my arrival at the State Secretariat, that victims of domestic violence can and must leave their homes, regardless of confinement or curfew measures. Finally, it was with amazement that I learned of Turkey's decision to withdraw from the Istanbul Convention. I immediately condemned this decision. I refer you to the answers given by Mrs Wilmès to our country's diplomatic actions in this regard, including with regard to other countries. I can assure you that, in all possible international forums, I stress the importance of the Istanbul Convention and call for a joint and strong fight against violence against women. I did it again this week at a meeting at UN Women.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic434x.u61	Madam Secretary of State, I am pleased that you are taking a number of initiatives. It would be good to explain your findings after the evaluation. It is important that there are sufficient resources. I hear you're going to use more resources to tackle this problem. One may have a good plan, but if one does not have the means to implement it, one does not get ahead. That is what we see in the current context. The number of cases of femicide does not decrease, on the contrary. We need more resources. Spain is an interesting example. There, incredibly many resources were made available to combat the problem, with a lot of results. Spain's example shows that, in addition to a good plan, more resources are needed to tackle femicide.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic434x.u62	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your detailed answer. I note that violence against women is at the centre of your concerns. I also note that you are working with the ministers concerned to, you said, "remove this chain of violence". That is what we should place at the heart of the debate. We also know that the subject is transversal and that without everyone's help, especially in terms of training and reception, we will not get away with it. I welcome this collaboration. I also hear your wish for a framework law. Of course, we will be attentive to the results of the study you commissioned on violence and confinement.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic434x.u63	Madam Secretary of State, thank you. First of all, with regard to the Istanbul Convention, I understand, and I fully knew, that you condemn the Turkish President's decision, since this decision must be endorsed by the Turkish Parliament. You recall the importance of the Istanbul Convention. But I am disappointed, because you refer me to the Foreign Minister's answers, when it was precisely because of her answers that I felt disappointing that I wanted to question you. I fear that its diplomatic strategy is insufficient to avoid a contagion effect of this decision on other countries. This puts women, young girls, but also children, at risk. And that finally sends a message of impunity to the perpetrators of this violence. For example, on 5 May 2020, the Hungarian Parliament adopted a declaration rejecting the ratification of the Istanbul Convention. As for the Polish Minister of Justice, he announced his willingness to leave this Convention, because he believes that this text is "an invention, a feminist creation that aims to justify gay ideology" and that it contains "elements of an ideological nature" considered to be "weak". This alarming situation requires, in my view, two things. Firstly, to use the levers that exist at the level of the European Union, the Council of Europe, but also at the diplomatic level, with a response that is really much stronger than the one announced by Minister Wilmès vis-à-vis Turkey. Secondly, we should call on our Polish, Hungarian and Turkish counterparts to respect their legal and moral commitments, and therefore to condemn these exits, which are intended only to reassure part of their electorate, in any case the particularly conservative electorate of these countries. As I said, this decision must be endorsed by the national parliaments. With regard to measures to combat femicides in Belgium, I thank you for your proactivity, the studies you have asked for, and the consultation you are conducting with the Institute for Gender Equality. Although I do not see it as being too clear about the timing of this famous national action plan, I mean that you are working with the Ministers of the Interior and Justice because of the urgency of adopting strong measures and of having an integrated approach, in particular with regard to the impact of confinement, curfew, closure of schools, violence in homes or between ex-partners. I am still wondering about the working groups that the Minister of Justice announced to me last October. I am thinking of the working group on the inclusion of femicide in the Criminal Code or the working group on the reception of victims in police stations. I have been informed of working groups for six months and I do not know where this is actually going. Finally, as far as the framework law is concerned, I am still hungry. Spain has put a number of things in place, but I doubt that these measures can be transposed as they are in Belgium. We had very interesting hearings in the Social Emancipation Committee where the College of Attorneys General had expressed some reluctance to introduce a meditation ban or to establish specialized courts. I very much look forward to the reflection that is under way today on a framework law that takes account of our specificities.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic434x.u64	I do not have reliable information on the number of virginity certificates issued annually in Belgium, nor on the exact extent of these practices. These practices, of course, raise ethical questions. The Order of Doctors issued an opinion on the subject in February 2019. It supports the WHO's statement, which recommends that such tests should not be carried out and that virginity attestations should not be carried out. I support that view. These practices naturally raise questions about equality between women and men, because only women should be virgins before marriage. They also undermine respect for the physical integrity of women. Every woman must have complete freedom over her body, before or after marriage. In all circumstances, it is essential to create a dialogue and a climate of trust between the patient and the physician. This is the most effective way to create a change of mindset and to prevent such traditional practices from being preserved in the long term.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic434x.u65	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, the problem cannot really be minimized, can be derived from the study by the Institut français d'opinion publique, which shows that two thirds of French Muslims or Muslims consider it important that their marriage partner is still a virgin. This is not only a Muslim problem, but it also affects the Jewish community and the Catholic community, although to a lesser extent. I am sincerely pleased that you take the issue to heart and, if I understand correctly, strongly condemn it. Testing for virginity in the 21st century is just retarded. I have no other word for that. I hope that we will be able to work together in the future to get rid of the problems of virginity studies and certificates.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic434x.u66	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, as you yourself say, it is unacceptable for girls to be reduced to their genitals. We must avoid it at all costs. Judgment is good and is a first step, but we also need to look at how we can resolve this in the context of legislation. Until there is no legislation on this, those girls are reduced to their genitals, and that is not what we want. I have also asked for statistics, but I will put a written question to that effect. After all, it is important to know the figures per year.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic434x.u67	Madam Secretary of State, a good month ago, our country was once again shaken by a hallucinating verdict in a rape case. Two of the perpetrators of sexual violence could easily escape effective prison sentences. They can simply continue to live and walk freely, while the victim may carry the psychological scars forever. This shows that there is still something very wrong with dealing with sexual violence in our country. Madam Secretary of State, in this case you cannot hide behind the separation of powers. It is also your responsibility that the law and policy still allow judges to make statements that signal that sexual violence is hardly punished in our country. This government would make it a priority to tackle sexual violence, but seems to be lagging behind. How will you ensure that every case of sexual violence is seriously punished from now on? The ruling in this case also bears witness to the minor importance that magistrates attach to sexual violence and their limited knowledge of the problem and its impact on the victims. By when can we expect all magistrates who deal with cases of sexual violence to have proper training on this issue? Figures from Amnesty International and SOS Viol also indicated that 1 in 5 women in Belgium were raped or sexually assaulted today. That's unbelievable. On Monday, these organizations issued a petition to the Prime Minister with 40,000 signatures asking the government to protect its citizens, especially girls and women, from this sexual violence. When will the government provide a specific, adequate, transparent and recurrent budget for this? Do you intend to work towards a better data collection around the problem? When can we expect the first annual figures of the number of persons convicted of sexual violence, the number of complaints that lead to a conviction, embarrassed statistics of victims who complain and of perpetrators who are prosecuted and/or convicted?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic434x.u68	The effective prosecution of perpetrators of sexual violence is indeed a priority of this government. We want to do everything in our power to pursue a more decisive policy, both for perpetrators and victims. The punishment of sexual violence falls within the competence of the Minister of Justice. The Law of 31 July 2020 provides that virtually all magistrates will now have to undergo basic or thorough training on sexual violence and partner violence. The Institute for Judicial Training is currently developing this training. We also want to extend this good practice to the police. In the new National Action Plan, it is a priority to provide better data collection Careful analysis and a distinction must be made between the different reasons why a case is not dealt with or dismissed. For example, there may be no choice but to end a case by lack of sufficient evidence or identification of the offender. The care centres play a key role in gathering evidence.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic434x.u69	Madam Secretary of State, it is very important to us that the fight against sexual violence is and remains a priority. The numbers of dismissals are worryingly high and it is very important that something is done about them. That culture of impunity is impossible. Between 2010 and 2017, 53% of rape cases were dismissed by the public prosecutor. A tenth was dismissed for opportunity reasons, such as research capacity, limited social impact or relational relationship between victim and offender. Those opportunities have no right to exist, so in order to eliminate the structural segregation of sexual violence, sufficient resources and magistrates are needed with a good knowledge of the problem. You said there would be basic training, including for the police. That's important. This will enable them to provide specialised care and high quality work. With effective persecution and punishment of sexual violence, we are sending out the signal that sexual violence cannot and that every such act is too much. We are therefore looking forward to an effective and comprehensive coordinated approach to this issue in the national action plan, but, as has already been said, there must be sufficient funding and resources to make this possible. Finally, we also support the call by civil society for better data collection, broken down by gender. Measuring is knowing. We hope that the problem will be tackled effectively in this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic434x.u70	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, in the report presented by Unia on 'COVID-19, a human rights test', it appeared that over the past year older people have been most frequently dealt with in reports. There is still discrimination on the basis of age, using vulnerability, in order, for example, not to allow older people to engage in activities, which is unacceptable. Moreover, there is still the major problem of older people's abuse, a large part of which is not charged with the lack of a coherent complaint system. During the current legislature, Parliament responded to this, inter alia on the basis of a resolution which I myself tabled and to which all the majority parties and even opposition parties have supported, in order to develop an international framework in the form of a UN Convention on the Rights of the Elderly. This gives the opportunity to take positive measures to combat discrimination against older people. It also gives older people the opportunity to make their rights directly enforceable before a court of law. The recommendations of Unia therefore showed that they are in favour of negotiating such a UN Convention. At first they were nuanced about it, but now they are explicitly in favour of it, which was also Parliament. Parliament has also stated that a convention should be explicitly advocated. It is also necessary to contribute to its content in the UN Open-ended Working Group on Ageing. I also asked Minister Wilmès about the succession of that convention. She herself was convinced that the current human rights instruments were sufficient, which goes against the resolution, which was adopted by a large majority, but also against numerous UN reports, which highlighted the need for a specific legal framework on older people's rights. Madam Secretary of State, that is why I have the following questions. How do you follow up on the resolution? Will you, as stated in the resolution, play a leading role in advocating such a UN Convention at European level?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic434x.u71	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, this week the United Nations Open-ended Working Group on Ageing meets. That is a working group which has the mandate to review the existing framework for human rights for older people, to identify gaps and to find a solution to those gaps. Mrs. Van Hoof already referred to it. Parliament adopted a resolution on an international convention against age discrimination against older people, which also calls for such an international convention. The resolution also calls on the government to defend that position at international level, to take an active role in the UN working group and to actively contribute to the negotiations. As Mrs Van Hoof outlined, the fundamental rights of older people are under real pressure. The coronapandemic has only increased these shortcomings, and yet there is no specific international legal framework protecting the rights of the elderly. Minister Wilmès said in the Foreign Affairs Committee that she is not in favour of a new UN treaty. She also said that she would not carry out the House's resolution, an answer that we regretted. Do you, as Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities, endorse Mrs Wilmès' position not to implement the resolution adopted by the Chamber? We believe that there is a need for better protection of the rights of older people. If a UN treaty is not the solution, what steps will be taken to guarantee the rights of the elderly? It is also important to invest in follow-up and implementation tools. What is your position on the creation of an Elder Rights Commissioner, by analogy with a Commissioner for Children's Rights? Have you discussed this with your fellow ministers from the state governments?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic434x.u72	Mr President, Mrs Van Hoof, Mrs Reynaert, discrimination and violence against the elderly is a clear problem. Even before the corona crisis, Unia's figures showed this. The policy must act against this. Where possible, the fight against discrimination should be inclusive, specific where necessary. In this context, I have read the opinion No.2019/06 of the Federal Advisory Council for Older People. The functioning of the Advisory Council falls under the joint competence of the Minister for Pensions and the Minister for Social Affairs. I want to see with them how we can fight specifically against age discrimination. The strengthening of parental rights is necessary and should be in line with the position of the European Union, in particular that there is a need for better protection of the rights of older people but that the current shortcomings are not of a normative nature. As you may know, the European Commission presented its report on ageing at the end of January in order to launch a broad debate. This debate is receiving my full attention. I am committed to addressing this issue at inter-federal level. This issue is not only a matter for the federal government, but also for the Länder.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic434x.u73	Madam Secretary of State, this is also not an answer that follows the resolution, whereby a majority, including from this government, explicitly advocated the Older Rights Convention, not an Older Rights Commissioner. We must first go for a treaty and then for a commissioner who can implement it. Unia also explicitly supports this, given the covid crisis. You refer to an opinion of 2019, when there was indeed no covid. My resolution was adopted on 20 March 2020 just before the outbreak of the covid crisis. It was already clear at the time that this Parliament was in favour of a convention. If this is resubmitted, there will again be a large majority to support it. I therefore call for more commitment from the government to implement this, given the broadness of the behaviour. Not only Parliament, but also the Council of the Elderly at Flemish level is in favour of this. All Flemish parent associations, such as the large association of OKRA, will also take action on this issue. They too were surprised by Mrs Wilmès' reply. Hopefully, you will also consult with them to ensure that this Older Rights Convention is on the agenda and is also advocated at European level.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic434x.u74	Madam Secretary of State, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats also regrets that the resolution will not be implemented. Our group is in favour of a separate UN Convention on Older People's Rights. We need to work on this in the longer term. We are also aware that this will take some time. Belgium must make an active contribution to these negotiations, first through the European level. We also need to take steps in relation to the EU itself. It is crucial that certain barriers or violations of rights faced by older people are given a clearer place within those human rights conventions. The added value of such a treaty does not lie in the granting of new or separate rights for older people. That's not necessarily the point. It is in recognition of the fact that older people are fully-fledged citizens with equal rights. That was also the philosophy behind the treaties on rights for women, children and people with disabilities. That is why we are continuing to maintain this position. The negotiations for the UN Convention are for the long term, but what is really important to us is that they must also be worked on in the short term. We need to invest in these follow-up instruments in order to better follow up the existing treaties. Our party is arguing at Flemish level for an elderly law commissioner, so should you be able to discuss this with the Länder, we would be grateful to you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic434x.u75	Mr President, honourable Member, it is important for me that victims of discrimination know who to turn to and know their rights. In this context, we anticipate an assessment of the current institutional landscape as provided for in the majority agreement. The intention is to ensure the accessibility of the various equality bodies: UNIA, the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men, the Federal Institute for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights, etc. I want to focus on the possibility of a single window for all victims. I am also in favour of strengthening the financial subsidy to UNIA. In view of the increase in the number of competencies assigned to UNIA, the continuing increase in the number of reports received by UNIA in recent years, it is necessary for UNIA to have the resources it needs to combat discrimination effectively and resolutely, for the benefit of all.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic434x.u76	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. I believe that additional measures are needed; additional resources are needed for UNIA. Thanks to your work, this will be the case: UNIA has been crying for years to get more resources. But it is true that we must also have a cross-cutting approach. There is work to be done with social networks, for example. One might imagine that a system refers directly to a UNIA page when a complaint is made and when a complaint is made. Moreover, and it is not at all to you that I have to explain it, work is to be done with the federated entities, especially in terms of teaching. It is necessary to be able to explain to young people and others, both in the classroom and elsewhere, that they have rights and that there are possibilities for complaints. That would be an interesting idea.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic434x.u77	Madam Secretary of State, the adoption figures that came out a few weeks ago are bad - even if it is, of course, one way among others to interpret them. In any case, there are fewer adoptions in Belgium than ten years ago. My question will focus in particular on homoparental adoption, which falls within the competence of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation. However, if the figures are broken down according to the parents' criteria, it appears that same-sex couples are particularly discriminated against in the possibility of adoption, given the unfounded "fear", - I hope everyone will agree - of inadequate education. Yes, in 2020 there are still people who believe that a couple of same-sex parents would not promote the optimal development of a child. Some normative representations therefore exclude the possibility of adoption for these couples, so that 80 per cent of parents refuse to entrust their child to couples of the same sex. Madam Secretary of State, what are your plans to combat discrimination against adoption by homoparental parents? Do you intend to contact the ministers concerned in the Communities to work to combat prejudices that prevent homosexuality?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic434x.u78	Mr President, I thank you for raising the important issue of adoption by homoparental couples. The representation you describe here is indeed extremely worrying. As you mentioned, the primary responsibility for adoption lies with the Communities, although some of its aspects fall under federal prerogatives. The federal government - in this case, the Minister of Justice - determines the conditions for adoption, its forms, its consequences and the possibility of revocation. For their part, the Communities are responsible for the preparation of files, mediation and follow-up. In addition, a study conducted in 2016 and 2017 found that high refusal rates were mainly the result of quotas based on the number of brooders who indicated that they preferred that the child should not be adopted by an LGBT couple. However, it is up to all of us to pay attention to discrimination and mobilize all means against those of our LGBTQI+ citizens. Although I cannot take direct action in this area myself, I am willing to discuss, with LGBTQI+ couples and competent entities, the different possibilities offered by our adoption system. In addition, as part of the SOGIESC Interfederal Action Plan, a section will also focus on rainbow families. Adoption by LGBTQI+ parents will be one aspect of this section. The various Belgian civil society organisations LGBTQI+ made several recommendations on adoption, such as the active search for more partner countries allowing LGBTQI+ people to adopt or the examination of a possible refusal by the biological mother. I will discuss these and other recommendations with the ministers concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic434x.u79	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. I am delighted that the question of rainbow parenting - I like the formulation - will be addressed in the future plan. However, I would like to recall the current observation that a single-parent woman or man will adopt a child more quickly than a homosexual couple. This shows how much there is a real problem of representation. I have relatives who have been in court for seven years. I think there is really an important and interesting job to do.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic434x.u80	Questions Nos 55015072C and 55015918C by Mrs Evita Willaert and 55015189C by Mrs Kattrin Jadin are postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic434x.u81	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, on 8 March last, messages were stuck on the guindaille buildings of the Université Libre de Bruxelles (ULB) denouncing the abuse, violence, sexual harassment and rape tolerated and suffocated in student circles. As a result, a campaign was launched on social networks to denounce these practices by adding a support message on his profile photo as well as the hashtags FolkloreComplice, BalanceTonComitard, etc. This campaign is growing and shows, like the BalanceTonPorc campaign, the magnitude of the problem. These situations are to be linked with student folklore still largely sexist and misogynist (songs of dubious folk, baptismal activities more than borderline, etc.). and more broadly to the culture of rape. This problem is more generally rooted in the issue of violence and sexual harassment on campuses. According to a study conducted by the University of Liège in 2019, more than one in five students had been confronted with a rape attempt during their studies, 6% of female students had been raped and more than half had already been sexually assaulted, in 84% of cases by a person known to the victim. Madam Secretary of State, you are currently working on a new national plan of action against violence. What is your analysis of this new liberation from speech? Will specific attention be paid to sexual violence on campuses as part of the future national action plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic434x.u82	Mr. President, Mrs. de Laveleye, like you, I have read the testimonies of students and former students denouncing sexual violence at student folklore events. The culture of rape on campuses, especially during guinea pigs, has been a concern for a long time. I therefore welcome the release of the words of the students and, above all, that this word be, at last, heard. Whether or not one likes this type of student folklore, it is necessary to introduce the concept of consent and to denounce the harassment and sexual and gender-based assaults that prevail there. Moreover, we have a duty to do so in the light of the Istanbul Convention, to which I wish to reiterate Belgium's full commitment. Several things will have to be put in place in the short term to address this specific problem. I want to raise awareness of sexual violence centres, particularly in the student community, as well as among circles and health professionals in contact with the student public. I have already decided to pay specific attention to such violence in the future National Action Plan to Combat Gender Violence 2021-2025, with measures in terms of prevention, protection of victims and prosecution of perpetrators. These measures will be discussed with relevant ministers at all levels of government. I will soon meet with student groups, actresses and actors concerned in order to listen to them and to define with them specific actions to be implemented. There is an urgent need to address the scourge of gender-based and sexual assault in the student community. It is not a question of preventing young people from partying, nor of putting a police officer behind each student, but of fundamentally changing attitudes to allow everyone to party in a benevolent atmosphere. It is not on the students that the burden of preventing attacks must rest. It's the attackers who have to stop ruining the party for everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic434x.u83	Thank you very much for your answer. I must point out that I am terrified. I've been studying myself – it's already a little bit old. In any case, it was before the "BalanceTonPorc" campaign and I have very precise memories of the extent of the sexual violence experienced by the students. I remember parades of Saint-V or parties where he was actually totally accepted, on the pretext that a woman might have been drinking a little – or a lot of drinking, it doesn't change anything – or was not in the right place at the right time, to have unconsented sex. This was on a very worrying scale. I am not surprised, but I am frankly saddened to realize that years later, this magnitude clearly did not diminish despite the release of the words of women victims of violence. So I'm glad to know that you're going to continue the field work with the student associations. I also encourage you to contact universities. I think they have a very important role in regulating this type of violence. Most of them are obviously aware of this and work there, but they must also accompany the structural work with the different kots students in particular. If so, I am also interested in meeting these student collectives with you so that we can continue to do the substantive work of cultural change that we need so much.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic434x.u84	Madam Secretary of State, three weeks ago I asked a question about improving the visibility of care centres. Your answer gave me more questions than answers at the time. For example, you replied that you would develop a major national communication campaign when all healthcare centres would be operational and running at full speed. Why do you think it is necessary to wait so long to communicate nationally and widely about care centres? Surely it cannot be the intention that victims should wait until 2024, when all care centres will be open? You also referred to the website www.sexualviolence.be, on which all contact details of the operational care centres are collected. How will you ensure that the website becomes known? What will you do with women who have no internet and stand in front of the digital divide? How are they supposed to get the necessary information? We often hear that a large group of people are not on the Internet. In your reply you also mentioned national and local campaigns, as well as campaigns at universities. What forms will these campaigns take? Has research been carried out on the most effective ways to reach the different target groups? Finally, you are only talking about campaigns at universities, but you can also broaden the campaigns by reaching higher education. Will you also work on information and communication campaigns in colleges and other institutions for, for example, adult education?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic434x.u85	Mrs Vindevoghel, until all care centres are operational after sexual violence, it is not appropriate to launch a national campaign. Many victims would not yet have a centre in their neighbourhood where they could knock. There is thus a phased communication, whereby local communication and awareness will first take place in the regions where a care centre is opened. Afterwards there will be extensive communication at national level. Stakeholders and civil society will be involved. Work on the content of the website www.sexualviolence.be and its accessibility will be carried out in the coming years. The digital divide is a focus and we involve cities, local organisations and civil society in raising awareness about healthcare centres. Local organisations will be an important local partner of the care centres to ensure the lead of victims to the care centres. The aim is to involve all educational institutions. In view of their vulnerability, young people aged 18 to 25 years are a specific target group to be informed about care centres.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic434x.u86	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. In fact, we think it is important that communication is already made at national level. Since care centres are already open, it is important that people know this, even though they are not yet operational. We do not think there can be any waiting. Much more attention needs to be paid to them now to make them known. From Unia we know that 1 in 5 people are not present in the digital world, so many people are not accessible via a website. Many other means must therefore be used to make the healthcare centres public. In our opinion, care centres also provide a good opportunity for many women. The care centres ensure that victims can complain more quickly, and that they are helped. Now things are very cumbersome in many places. For us, therefore, it is extremely important that the existing and future care centres are as quickly and as much visible as possible, so that victims can find their way and put an end to a climate of impunity.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic434x.u87	Madam Secretary of State, discrimination in the labour market is a very important issue for us too. Belgium is not a good student in this area. A few weeks ago, your fellow Minister of Work announced a draft law to improve the regime of discrimination tests on the labour market. The current legislation in this area makes it almost impossible to apply discrimination tests. This bill is therefore more than welcome. Unfortunately, we have heard that the draft law goes a lot less than the legislative proposals on the same subject currently being dealt with in the Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and Pensions. Thus, the prior express agreement of the Procurator of the King or the Labour Auditor will remain necessary. This is an absurd condition which makes proactive discrimination tests impossible and which is not subject to any other control by the social inspection. It was also announced in the press that the draft law would also provide for an extension of the grounds for discrimination for which discrimination tests may be used in the labour market. According to our sources, however, there is no sign of this in the actual draft law. Madam Secretary of State, I have the following questions. Will you press within the government to abolish the condition of the prior express agreement of the King's Attorney or the Labour Auditor through the draft law? In what way will the government extend the possibility of using discrimination tests for all grounds of discrimination?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic434x.u88	Mrs Vindevoghel, the condition of the explicit agreement of the King's Attorney or the Labour Auditor for discrimination tests was indeed retained in the government's draft law. The conditions for entering into a test of discrimination are made more flexible by this draft law. This will allow the King's Attorney and the Labour Auditor to give their agreement more quickly. In the current legal text they are limited by the strict conditions. For example, there must be objective indications of discrimination, complaint or notification and results of data mining and data matching. With this draft law, one of these elements is sufficient. In practice, this will make it possible to carry out more rapid discrimination tests and become an efficient and useful instrument. As far as your second question is concerned, the aim is, of course, to be able to use the discrimination tests for all grounds of discrimination. At present, certain discrimination criteria are still excluded from discrimination testing, but this condition is deleted in this draft law. This will allow the application of the discrimination tests for all grounds of discrimination to be provided for in the anti-discrimination laws.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic434x.u89	Madam Secretary of State, if I understand correctly, you agree to the proposal that is on the table, which stipulates that it will be done through the Attorney General. We believe that this will be an obstacle, even if you say it is a step forward. There must be proactive discrimination tests so that discrimination can be established without detours. In addition, employers must be sufficiently sanctioned when establishing discrimination. There must be zero tolerance in the area of discrimination, only in this way we believe that progress can be made. We have been working on this for so long and I still hear daily stories of discrimination in the workplace. For example, someone from an interim agency told me that there are still companies that refuse certain people. It remains a major problem and we fear that the present proposal will not go far enough to eliminate discrimination.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic434x.u90	Debates of the European Parliament 55016141C by Mrs Rohonyi has been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic434x.u91	I would first like to apologize for the late reply. I'll have my services investigate where it went wrong. I'll give you an answer, but there's not much to report. I can confirm that, under my jurisdiction, the administrations do not do outsourcing. That was never the case in the past either. All your other questions therefore do not apply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic434x.u92	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for the apology. Your colleague would have done the same. Thank you for your answer. I have no comments.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic434x.u93	Mr President, Mrs Goethals, in 2019 and 2020, no new bodies were created or existing ones abolished. The Equal Opportunities Council is a federal advisory body set up by a Royal Decree of 15 February 1993, for which the Institute for Gender Equality provides the daily secretariat of the Council, the Bureau and the committees. In 2020, there was a €19 expenditure for the Equal Opportunities Council. The composition of the council reflects the broadest possible social diversity and tends towards a balance between the ideological and social beliefs of the members, in order to ensure the elaboration and dissemination of opinions. The 45 members are appointed by the Minister responsible for equal opportunities policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic434x.u94	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answer.
