ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u1	Madam President, Minister, since May 8, 2021, the horeca sector has been able to benefit temporarily from the reduced VAT rate of 6%. This measure, which is welcome and necessary in our view, has allowed an entire sector to blow some time after the long months of closure imposed by the health situation. According to the information provided, this measure would not be extended. It is therefore expected to end on 30 September, when the horeca sector is far from getting its head out of the water. In other words, as of 1 October, horeca benefits will return to taxation before the health crisis, i.e. 12 per cent on food and 21 per cent on beverages. In addition to the possible increase in the price of addition for the consumer, the risk of social disaster is not to be excluded. In order to ensure a healthy and sustainable recovery, the caisses must be bailed out and this takes time. In this regard, it should be noted that the horeca sector represents more than 180,000 jobs nationwide, according to the federation. Furthermore, I would like to point out that compliance with social distancing measures, which are indispensable in order to avoid a possible new wave of the epidemic, has not enabled professionals to operate at 100% since their reopening. Therefore, Minister, would it be possible to extend the reduced VAT rate to 6% until 31 December 2021? Otherwise, what compensatory measures will the government put in place to avoid a social disaster? Do you have an assessment of revenue (or a reduction in revenue) to VAT for the Horeca during the summer months over the last three years? Does the government have an assessment of the current financial situation of the horeca sector? If so, can these figures be reported?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u2	The topical and urgent debate will be much easier. The absentees, however, are always wrong. If we can believe the press, as well as the Minister's statements in the seventh day, the reduced VAT rate of 6% in the catering industry will end on 1 October. From that day on, the rate will again be 12% or 21%. I asked you a question yesterday because I believe that conclusions can be drawn from other countries' VAT reforms. After France increased VAT in the catering industry, prices for consumers increased. How will we avoid the temporary VAT reduction causing a permanent rise in prices in restaurants? Unfortunately, many restaurants have not yet been able to make full use of this measure, on the one hand, because they opened in May, albeit not at full capacity, on the other, because some things do not open again until 1 October, for example nightclubs. What about catering businesses which are now once again faced with new restrictions? In Brussels, the Covid Safe Ticket is introduced, something which affects the catering industry. That is a pity, because that measure has just been introduced to compensate for the damage caused by previous measures. Just at the moment when catering businesses can mitigate their damage, an aid measure will be lifted. We regret that. In particular, for those sectors which have not been able to make sufficient use of this aid.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u3	Mr Minister, since this is a topical debate and every Member of Parliament can participate either before you answer it or afterwards, I will allow myself, not to supplement the questions put to you by Kattrin Jadin – who apparently has difficulty connecting – and Mr Ducrame, whom I do not see yet in our committee, to intervene by saying that, in the end, this measure has been a favourable measure to support the Horeca sector, which has been heavily affected by the health crisis, as we know, but which has not yet fully recovered from this crisis. Far from it, since, on the one hand, I find that even though, at times, at the very beginning of the recovery, the terraces were crowded, the restaurants are not. On the other hand, there are increasing difficulties in finding help for restorers who want to be helped by qualified and vaccinated personnel. What, then, when a part of your staff is not vaccinated? Licencing these people costs money, and not to continue with them while you have trained them makes you lose all the training provided. Last thing, and that was mentioned, the Covid Safe Ticket. If the restaurateurs must tomorrow be the guardians of the respect of this measure, barely fine, we will train at them a large administrative and practical work that will come in addition to their main job, that is to ensure that their customers who order them dishes are served in time and in time, and that means that we will add to a financial situation a fine. Indeed, it will be enough for only one customer to be in good standing – for whatever reason one could not control – for the fine to be imposed on them. I would like to ask you to continue with this, and I do not know the state of the matter in the government. You will, therefore, provide us with information on this matter, as a result of the statements you made to the VRT. I would like to know how you view things, in the interest of a profession that is still essential for the resumption of economic affairs. We do a lot of business around a good meal. There is a great deal to gain from Horeca doing well in our country, and therefore, I believe, we need to concentrate our efforts to enable the sector to return to the water. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u4	Thank you for your questions. I think it is clear that our government has taken many different forms of support which have benefited sectors severely affected by the covid pandemic. We have extended several of these measures several times, but it is important to review them today. One of the relay options, because that's what we're talking about today, was the reduced VAT rate for restaurant and catering services, including the provision of drinks. This measure provided a breath of oxygen to the Horeca sector and to those sectors whose activities are closely related to it. It can be seen that all these measures have been effective in protecting these sectors that were hard hit by the covid-19 crisis. To counter the consequences of the health crisis, the measure has therefore avoided as many bankruptcies as possible. The relaxation of public health protection measures has also brought about a strong recovery of economic activity in society, but also in this sector. We can be very happy about that. In general, it should be taken into account that a reduction in the VAT rate necessarily also has a very negative impact on budgetary revenue. Given the exceptional circumstances we have experienced, it is very important to support this sector financially. In the light of the economic recovery and taking into account the current relaxations, it is therefore necessary to ensure the financial capacity of the State in fulfilling its tasks in the long term. The VAT reduction was introduced when the Horeca sector was reopened, but at that time the government made it clear that the VAT reduction would only apply until the end of September 2021. I therefore confirm once again that on 1 October 2021, the reduced VAT rate of 6% for the Horeca sector will come to an end. I understand the concerns about the impact of the reduction in the VAT rate and its subsequent increase on the price of the services in question, but my administration's VAT services are solely responsible for ensuring that the VAT rates are properly applied by the taxable persons who provide these services. However, they do not have the power to control or influence price developments following a rate change. Nor is it possible for my administration to estimate the VAT revenues that were generated this summer in the horeca sector. Not all VAT declarations for this period are yet filed by the taxable persons concerned, in particular quarterly declarations. So I cannot provide you with the comparison requested. The reduced VAT rate should be applied in accordance with the nature of the service and should also be independent of the nature or status of the service provider, in particular in order not to infringe the principle of neutrality as regards VAT. The end of the tariff reduction for restaurant services cannot therefore be selectively postponed as for nightclubs, for example. I do not see how the use of the Covid Safe Ticket (CST) would constitute an additional restriction on the provision of restaurant services. On the other hand, it is an overall flexible measure, allowing restaurants to offer their services under conditions that ensure the safety of staff and customers in the best possible way. To sum up and conclude, I would like to stress once again that the measure was announced from the outset as a temporary measure. As of day 1, I made it clear that the measure would apply one quarter. With regard to one of the comments, the price increases made in France cannot be compared at all because the VAT reduction was implemented for a much longer period. This has led to some of the reduction in VAT being made by suppliers rather than consumers. On the other hand, we have always sent out a clear signal that the scheme would only apply one quarter and that the effort had to be used to reduce the buffers somewhat. If you look at the cost of this measure for one quarter of the year, more than EUR 400 million, I can say that we have made sure that the hospitality industry has been able to raise a buffer of 400 million after a particularly difficult period. I think that is a merit of this measure.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u5	Madam Chair, Minister, I thank you for your answer, which has the merit of being clear, failing to be satisfactory to us. We understand that the measures that have been taken cannot be eternal. Things were clear from the beginning. Nor can we reason as if these sectors were functioning at full speed as was the case before the onset of covid. As far as I am concerned, I maintain that an additional period of time could have been allowed not to cut the wings of these establishments, which are only beginning to recover. This is not a question of compensating losses, but of supporting a recovery. Of course, the health of the state's finances is the subject of all our concerns. But if the establishments concerned do not close, they will also contribute. However, I think the period is still delicate. Many establishments have resumed their activities. Some have regained full health, but others are still fragile. Finally, I would like to mention a small injustice. I am thinking here of the discotheques whose situation has been briefly mentioned. They will only be reopened on 1 October. The application of 6% VAT will end on 30 September. This measure will therefore never have benefited one of the sectors most affected by the crisis. That's too bad!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u6	Mr Minister, the fact that the Christian Democrats and especially the liberals in this government are abandoning the catering industry is completely incomprehensible to the Flemish interest at the moment. The fact that you have not made a break from the extension of the measure, the VAT reduction for the catering industry, cannot be explained to the many small café and restaurant operators. Five measures were extended. That's what the Secretary of State for the Budget told us this morning. That costs 100 million euros. These extensions are feasible and affordable. We really believe that. This measure is far too early for many operators. The catering industry on our Flemish coast had hoped for a few months extra respite. They opened in May. They turned in May and not yet at full capacity. The nightclubs are even closed. The hospitality industry has received support, but they have had to pay for their savings. Now that they have just come out of the crisis, they still have additional costs and investments to deal with the measures, for example in the area of air purification. They also had to purchase plexi screens from Van Quickenborne. In the meantime, they have also lost staff to other sectors. They must therefore also pay training costs. Just as this sector is starting to breathe and relive, it is being re-enabled because VAT is being increased again just before winter. This is inconvenient for many restaurants, especially on our Flemish coast, because there are much fewer people expected during the winter period. We deeply regret this measure. We are in favour of maintaining the VAT reduction at least until the end of the year. That is the least we can do for all the catering shops and certainly for the nightclubs.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u7	Minister, thank you for your answer. It is obvious that when a time limit is decided and everyone agrees to respect it – unless there are exceptional circumstances justifying it – it is necessary to stick to it. Moreover, 400 million euros is not nothing! However, I observe, like others, that the sector remains fragile. Although people should not be accustomed to being helped systematically, since they must also be able to get up with their own forces, it is not certain that the public is at the meeting. When you say that the Covid Safe Ticket introduces more flexibility, I think it's being debated, but it's another debate. I do not agree with you, as far as I am concerned. The status of vaccination should be made clearer. Finally, the world of horeca is subject to VAT rates which vary according to the services rendered. There is also a lot of work to be done here. I will therefore ask you later about this, because the application of these rates complicates the situation and even makes it contradictory and unreadable.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u8	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I'm giving you some short thoughts. First of all, let's be honest, the government has never been a big fan of reducing VAT from 21% to 6%. The fact that this measure has been implemented is mainly because it has been enforced by Parliament. A majority has been found, first with the Swedish parties, and the other groups have then joined, for which I would like to thank you. The government itself took every chance it had to wait as long as possible to implement that measure. This measure is therefore due to Parliament, but I am pleased that you are defending it today. You make it very clear that the measure has provided additional funding of EUR 400 million in the hospitality sector. You also welcome the fact that this has enabled the catering industry to build a buffer. It is to your credit that you support the effect of the measures. Secondly, given the history and some misunderstood statements from the Prime Minister's context, I think it will be important for your government to continue to show and prove that you like the hospitality sector and that measures are being taken to support it. This could be done with the VAT reduction and it can be done with other measures, but the government really has some work to do in this area. Unfortunately, I belong to quite a few catering companies that sometimes they feel a bit abandoned. In this case, I would like, above all, to call upon you to express your love. Thirdly, it is striking that in the past, especially the Flemish MEPs in this Parliament have been communicating heavily about VAT in the hospitality sector, whereas today it is mainly the French speakers who do so, i.e. the Walloon and Brussels colleagues. I understand that, too. Restaurants in Wallonia and Brussels will be different from those in Flanders. This is the result of the fact that the vaccination rate is much higher in Flanders. Nevertheless, let us pay attention to this. I would like to reiterate this appeal: let us study very carefully and see what measures are needed in the totality of Belgium, but also what the impact of these measures is in the different regions, so that we can learn from them and see whether the measures we are taking are the most appropriate and have the effect we need. I asked the Minister for the Budget about this this morning, she referred to you, Minister Clarinval and Minister Dermagne, in order to reinforce that plea. Let us also measure and see the impact of measures. Let us look over the coming months at the measures that have been extended: where and how they are used and what their impact is. To make it very concrete: if they are also used in Flanders, then I would be interested to know. That could be a reason to ask us questions about causality. Is it effective that the corona pass reduces economic activity? If so, this measure should be used less in Flanders. If that is not the case, it is important that we study it with Parliament to see what the precise consequences are. So it's going in different directions. The masks do not fall off, on the contrary, it is simply a plea for sound parliamentary and budgetary work.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u9	My colleague Colebunders had also introduced an issue since this is a tax and social issue and he is a member of Social Affairs. Since we had acted in parallel, I will intervene for the PTB on this issue. Minister, Luminus electricity supplier and Attentia, SD Worx and Partena Professional social secretariats launched a new instrument on 30 August to charge employees' electricity bills directly by the employer as part of the cafeteria plans. This dubious process would allow employers to pay less gross wages, which would definance public services and social security. There is a tax reduction of up to EUR 500 for an employee who consumes EUR 1,500 of electricity per year. The social secretariats concerned are already anticipating great success. In addition, Luminus obtained a ruling from the Advance Rulings Service (ADS) on this new instrument. I am pleased to note that, according to the newspaper Lecho, you reject these plans of Luminus and social secretariats and declare: "With my administration, I will examine how I can quickly put an end to this technique of remuneration which has recently appeared". Minister, has the text of this ruling been properly published on the SDA or Fisconetplus website? Has the SDA not exceeded its role in creating a new tax niche? Are you going to cancel the ruling in question? If not, how will you put an end to this technique?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u10	Minister, late August, due to the explosion of telework, Luminus and several social secretariats launched what could be called "a new remuneration formula". The aim is to offer employers to pay the electricity bill of the workers who would ask for it. In concrete terms, the employer can incorporate into its flexible "cateeria plan" a "pay electricity bill" option. Thus, this amount, which was a gross wage, becomes de facto a flexible and fiscally advantageous remuneration. In my view, it is neither more nor less a way to circumvent the law, since, for the same remuneration, the employee will contribute less to the community. The Advance Rulings Department has validated this approach but, for your part, you have announced that you are examining with your administration "how this recently discovered remuneration technique can be quickly stopped". Like my colleague, I quote you. Apparently, we've been tying the same words. Minister, I understand and congratulate you. It is an objective we share to fight fiscal niches. Minister, what initiatives have you taken to put an end to this formula? Are you going to reform that decision? On what basis? I take it from the debates and explanations we have already had on the ruling that you do not find it reasonably defensible. Have you ever had contact with the Advance Rulings Service in this regard? How is it that the service validates a mechanism that explicitly seeks to circumvent the law?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u11	Madam President, in response to the questions raised, I would like to refer again to the broader tax reform that I am preparing pursuant to the government's agreement during this Parliament. This reform must modernize our tax system and make it simpler and more equitable. It will also aim, in line with the government agreement, at a gradual shift from alternative forms of remuneration to remuneration in euro. What this gradual shift will look like, we are currently working hard on that. A form of remuneration whereby an employer contributes to the electricity bill of his employees in the context of the cafeteria plan goes against the spirit of the government agreement. As Minister of Finance, I therefore consider it logical to examine how this new alternative remuneration channel under a "cateria plan" can be closed in anticipation of tax reform. This procedure will have no impact on the case where the employer makes an electric car with a smart charging post available to his employee and reimburses the charging of that car. The advantage for the whole is then treated in the same way as the benefit of a company car with a tank card, in particular one benefit determined in accordance with the Income Tax Code 1992. The prior decision on which it is based can be consulted on Fisconetplus. It concerns the prior decision No. 2020.1977 of 15 December 2020. With regard to the mentioned list of 84 alternative forms of remuneration, I do not think that some of the elements of this list are immediately problematic. This issue will be further discussed in the context of broader tax reform. With regard to a possible VAT reduction for electricity, I can tell you that this is not currently being considered.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u12	Minister, we're still a little unsatisfied. I was pleased with your statement in the Echo, but now I don't see exactly what you're going to do to reverse that decision. Where do you say we're just waiting for tax reform and we'll see at that time? Then I did not understand what you were going to do in practice.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u13	There is in this the situation of what you are questioning me about, for which we are taking steps, together with the administration, to prevent what was agreed in the ruling. Secondly, there are several alternative forms of remuneration. We have clearly agreed that we would address them within a broader framework of fiscal reform. These two different aspects are present.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u14	Thank you for that clarification. My question then relates to your approach. In the context where a ruling has apparently already been concluded, you say that you will decide what approach to the administration should be taken. Does that mean you're going to cancel this ruling? It was this question that I wanted to get a precise answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u15	Mr Van Hees, I am very disappointed. I thought you knew what it was like. I can't cancel Rulings. What I can do is address the underlying legislation or the basis on which certain decisions have been taken. We have already done this in the past, including the VAT for the dormitory. In this situation, too, we are going to look at how we can take that into account in this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u16	Minister, if I understand you correctly, we leave the ruling system unchanged. We're letting this tax niche grow. And then, one day, you'll change the legislation. I hope that you will quickly take steps to do so. This illustrates the problems of this ruling system, which ultimately allows for the creation of alternative legislation alongside that created by the legislator.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u17	Minister, thank you for your answer. I would like to stress very positively your willingness to make this kind of approach impossible. It is an interesting and important message to convey; I hear it and I hope everyone will hear it. Pending amendment of the legislation, these steps must be made impossible in practice. You say that the major tax reform will include the question of the types of remuneration. I agree with you that, of course, gross wages are always preferable to other forms of remuneration. In any case, this incident again highlights the role of the Advance Rulings Service and the importance of knowing who has the last word in implementing a tax decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u18	Mr. Secretary, I'd like to respond. All these alternative rewards that are now being proposed reveal a deeper problem, namely the structural problem with the taxation of wages in this country. This is an original sin of the previous governments, a typical Belgian problem. In your reply, you are hiding behind the so-called broad fiscal reform, but in the meantime we have all heard in the media that it will certainly not be before this year. You move the hot potato to 2022. When discussing the policy letter, we asked you whether you would like to achieve that deadline or simply discuss whether you have a plan or whether the implementation is for a future government. You never replied. However, we hear you in the press about this alternative remuneration, and I quote: 'We are now looking at how we can limit this as quickly as possible with the administration'. That is quite different from what you said in this committee. According to your spokesman, the cabinet and the administration are working on "a way to counter this type of tax optimisation techniques." After this debate, I have only questions. How far do you stand with that now? How will that actually work? Will there eventually be a ban? To what extent will Parliament be involved? You don't answer all those questions. All this remains unclear and we will certainly ask you these questions again. What I have heard here today has only raised additional questions for me.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u19	Minister, the essential problem is that we have too high a tax burden on labour. I understand that Mr Van Hees is asking a question about this. I don't know if he heard it, but there was recently a communication from the FGTB that shows understanding for such subtractions. It was specifically about company cars and the FGTB said the following. "We understand better that bosses prefer to negotiate cheaper wage benefits for them, like a company car." Even the FGTB therefore understands that, in view of the disastrous wage burden, agreements are being made between employers and employees in order to reduce the tax burden pragmatically. Secondly, I do not agree with Mr Vermeersch's statement that you are pushing out the tax reform for you. I have the impression you'd like to bring it back in the old days. Because the coalition agreement says that you must come up with a proposal by the end of the legislature, while some of your communications at least give the impression that you want to move faster. Only the question, which remains with me too, is: how broad will this reform be effective? In your article last weekend, you seemed to want to implement a saucissoned approach. By the way, you offer interesting ideas. Taxation for the second home, for example, or the RSZ of the professional footballers, and copyrights. You want to trade in these systems for the abolition of Mr Dehaene's crisis tax, your shining example. You dare to destroy his legacy. No, he could live perfectly with that. It seems to me that you are already working on the first steps to this end. It is important to know your timetable, because I do not think it is good for the people's support, who are longing for more stability, to read so many days that something is being abolished or that there will be only one part of your broad reform, without totality. It would therefore be interesting to make your timetable transparent. Perhaps you could clarify that a little? How broad is your reform going to be, and how many steps are we going to see them in?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u20	While the debate is going on, I will use it to clarify a number of things. First of all, I don't understand why you're surprised at the timing and how I'm handling this. I don't understand. We sat together a few months ago, and everyone was able to say their first thoughts on what fiscal reform should look like. I have always made it very clear that a number of elements are particularly important to me: foresight, not breaking into existing contracts, and ensuring that we move step by step towards a new tax system. There are a number of things on the table today that could be a first step. I believe that this is only logical. That fits perfectly within the strategy. What I do not understand is that some of us here today are surprised that, at the moment something appears in the press, I immediately respond to it. They ask: why do you respond immediately; you have not yet done anything; your administration has not yet corrected it. That is just part of the legal certainty I am trying to provide. If there is anything that does not fit within the framework and within the spirit of fiscal reform, I want to make it clear immediately what our position is. Then everyone can say: we will still use this new system, we will use this new extralegal remuneration, knowing well that in a few months' time an initiative will be taken to stop that slope. We must not, of course, complain at that time that we are stopping something that has already been approved. That's exactly the signal I wanted to give. When there's something coming out that people think might be interesting to them, I'm saying it doesn't fit in with the story that we're writing with our fiscal reform. In doing so, we want the benefits to be paid in cash as much as possible. Then we will not join in a story with a number of new forms of remuneration such as those we are debating today in this committee. There is a very clear vision of the future, which I am trying to put into practice step by step. A new tax system cannot be created by blinking.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u21	Minister, you say that you want to proceed step by step. The problem is that you're jogging in the press and limping in this committee. We're finding a discrepancy between your character and your presentation in the press and your way of working on the committee. That's what we're gonna expose. For us, this committee can make some progress. I think we all agree on the basic principles across party boundaries: our tax system is hopelessly complex, a number of changes are needed. So not only in the press, but also in the committee and finally let it move forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u22	Minister, I am surprised that you are surprised at our questions. You say there is a very clear vision, but I do not know it. We have indeed had a first exchange of views in Parliament. We appreciate that, but otherwise there has been no debate. We do read in the newspapers that you are testing with your government partners to come up with a supported proposal. You have no intention of doing a 'Lalieuxtje' and that is a credit to you. However, you should not simply deduce that we would all know which direction it is heading. I certainly don't know. I see, however, that a number of great principles are put forward, which are sometimes contradictory. It is also not always clear how they can take concrete form. On the one hand, everyone feels that there will be a big plan, that you are building in a solid way. Respect for that. On the other hand, we already feel and see a number of things on the ground. Your government has already done a few things. In this way, you have intervened in the system of salary wagons and a transaction fee has been introduced. Furthermore, the amount for pension savings was not indexed. Tax steps have therefore been taken, but they are all in the direction of increasing tax pressure. Now you come to the press with a proposal to reduce the wage burden while the sum is not yet right. After all, the budgetary revenue from the items you want to delete is not entirely in proportion to the measures you want to take. However, for the first time, measures will be taken to reduce tax pressure. You say that it is clear and that there is a vision, but in the field I see above all a minister who responds to things that happen and who does not yet set the agenda sufficiently. You have communicated about energy prices, but that is also a response to something that is happening. In fact, I hope that we will see you set the agenda more firmly rather than just hearing you respond to certain issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u23	Minister, on 1 September, Attorney General Johan Delmull stated that the Brussels federal judicial police will no longer investigate all financial and economic and tax offences. He proposed a system of priorities that would in practice lead to tax fraud being investigated and prosecuted only if it occurs in conjunction with other criminal acts. This could lead, for example, to a company setting up fraudulent constructions no longer running any risk. The Attorney General cites a shortage of qualified researchers and unfilled vacancies as the reasons for the introduction of the system. I could understand that choice, Minister, if there were no alternative, because the public prosecutor has to make choices and set priorities. However, this is a fictional problem, which can be solved perfectly by allowing tax officials to participate in legal proceedings. They should preferably be involved in purely fiscal matters rather than in mixed crime cases. This, of course, shows the Charter of the taxpayer. In February 2021, you already announced that you want to facilitate more cooperation between the parquet and the FPS Finance and that you want to adapt the taxpayer's Charter to that end. What is the concrete state of play on this issue? What specific adjustments do you provide and what is the timeline? Is it your ambition that tax officials who are involved in criminal investigations should also be able to do so in purely fiscal crimes or is cooperation limited to investigations involving mixed criminal offences, for example a drug investigation where there is also a tax side? The Minister of Justice said he would focus on more recruitments with the judicial police, although he also indicated that this is not so obvious. What additional steps will you take from your administration to prevent judicial fraud investigations from happening due to understaffing or lack of expertise?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u24	Mr Minister, as my colleague said, on 1 September the public prosecutor in Brussels declared that he was refusing to investigate certain cases of financial crime because of a lack of resources. Unfortunately, for years, prosecutors and judges have denounced this lack of resources – both human and material – devoted to the fight against financial crime, and none of these calls for help seems to be heard by successive governments. At the level of the tax administration too, the number of agents has been steadily decreasing. The question has been asked of the Minister of Justice, but I think it must also be asked for the skills that are yours. Even if, at the time of its constitution, the government had initially "forgotten" to appoint a member of the government to coordinate the fight against fraud, despite the inclusion of that intention in the majority agreement, it then assigned you this function. As such, you are responsible for coordinating the actions of the various ministers whose powers relate to fraud. First, since the beginning of September, have you brought these different ministers together to coordinate their action against fraud, or has another body met for the same purpose? If so, which one? Secondly, if so, have you mentioned the abandonment of financial crime cases which, I suppose, contain elements of fraud by the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office? If so, what conclusions have you drawn? Finally, how many tax officers are currently seconded to the Public Prosecutor's Office? Are you considering increasing this number?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u25	On the occasion of the return of the judicial police in Brussels, the Attorney General explained that, from now on, the police will no longer carry out all the criminal investigations that should be entrusted to it, because of the excessive backlog of cases of economic, financial and fiscal crime, in particular. The number of specialized investigators in the Federal Judicial Police has decreased by one third in 20 years. In view of the situation and the deterioration of the available resources, the Prosecutor General of Brussels is therefore obliged to set priorities. I have read the answers of Minister Van Quickenborne, but I want to speak to the Minister of Finance, since you are in charge of the fight against fraud. In my view, this is an extremely serious message to the perpetrators of fraud, money laundering and other crimes: the feeling of impunity is now likely to settle even more, knowing that not all cases will be prosecuted. In such circumstances, how can we effectively combat fraud and implement the plan that you are about to tell us about in Parliament? It is our State's ability to prosecute fraud that is being called into question. How can we accept that economic and tax frauds are systematically placed in a lower priority category? Especially since when resources are invested in this type of investigation, these means are quite profitable because they enable the money that is missing from the State to be brought back into the caisses of the State. I am not going to ask you what you think about the decision of the Prosecutor General in Brussels. Let us turn directly to the future. What steps have you taken with your colleague Van Quickenborne on this subject? With regard to the problems of skills and recruitment of certain profiles, in particular, the Minister of Justice has announced in Parliament a strengthening of budget and human resources. Does this solve the problem of economic and financial crime? What are you doing to reconcile your intentions to fight fraud with the reality on the ground?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u26	The statements of the Brussels Prosecutor General, Mr Delmulle, are particularly shocking. He stated that he was unable to conduct any criminal investigations that should be assigned to him in respect of financial crime. He referred to the enormous backlog of cases facing the Brussels Court of Appeal, particularly in this type of case, as well as to the limited or insufficient number of investigators specialized in the judicial police to carry out such investigations. He referred to the President's decisions in the government. We are faced with shocking but also disturbing statements, because the message that is being sent to our fellow citizens could be understood as meaning a form of impunity for financial crime and tax fraud, even though the vast majority of our fellow citizens, who are also taxpayers, are honest contributors to public finances. This is at least the case for salaried workers by holding occupational premiums on their salary sheets every month or for self-employed and liberal professions by paying advance payments. These statements are, moreover, contrary to what is provided for in the government agreement. This is very clear: "The capacity of the judiciary and the police to deal with large fraud cases will be strengthened". The government agreement adds: "The judicial order and the judicial police will be strengthened with a view to the detection and prosecution of financial crimes". I have already asked the Minister of Justice clearly what he intends to do to strengthen the justice services (prosecutors) to enable them to have sufficient resources both to address the backlog and both to conduct criminal investigations, with instructions to prosecute those who commit financial crimes. However, the serious and organized tax fraud, particularly in what triggers the mechanism on money laundering, implies that, if the justice system does not follow due to lack of investigators and/or magistrates, the upstream work of the tax administration, in particular in large tax cases with a criminal record, could be totally ineffective if no judicial action is taken within the time frame that is reasonable. That is why, Mr Finance Minister, I would like to know whether you, your colleague the Minister of Justice and the Minister of the Interior (the fight against financial crime must be part of the national security plan and has to do with the operational capacity of the police to combat financial crime) intend to come together to draw up a plan to attack this scourge which is intrinsically unjust, but also a threat to our public finances. We're dealing with real predators. How do you intend to put this in place to deal, in particular, with other deadlines and specifically with those related to the budget? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u27	As Minister responsible for coordinating the fight against fraud, I would like to reiterate Mr Attorney General's view that the fight against fraud is a chain story. In his speech at the formal opening of the court of appeal in Brussels, he emphasized the criminal links which were the responsibility of my colleague. Mrs Cornet, I am therefore referring to the answers already given by the Minister of Justice on the mobilisation of additional budgetary resources which the government foresees from the interdepartmental provision. The anti-fraud chain story is, of course, wider than the criminal sector. My administration also plays an important role in this. I believe that there is no question of impunity in the area of tax fraud, since my administration is still fighting tax fraud in an efficient manner, within the limits of its capacity and human resources. These restrictions on public funds require measures that support the fight against fraud, as they are taken by the government. In addition to my administration and the members of the College of Attorneys General involved in the fight against fraud, the Economic Inspectorate and the Judicial Police also collaborate within the College for the fight against tax and social fraud. You can see that the whole chain is represented. The Minister of Justice also referred to the College's action plan, in which a legislative initiative is being developed for better collaboration between the prosecution, the tax authorities and the police. Mr Laaouej, this cooperation is part of the first action plan of the College for the fight against fraud, and the Ministerial Committee, which includes the Ministers of the Interior and Justice, has instructed the College to draw up a second action plan. In addition to the 17 agents who are currently seconded to the parquets, a new selection procedure has also been organised within my administration for candidates for the posting of the parquets in Antwerp, Brussels, and Liège. I am still waiting for the advice of the Attorney General concerned, after which the eight laureates will be able to start this year in the respective areas of office. In addition, as part of the work of the Anti-Fraud College, a joint working group has been established to strengthen collaboration between the Justice FPS and my administration.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u28	Thank you for your relatively short answer. You said that you share the view of the Attorney General on the chain approach, but the concrete approach proposed by Mr Delmull seems to me to be contrary to a number of passages from the coalition agreement, from which Mr Laaouej quoted in detail. You didn't answer my questions about the taxpayer's Charter.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u29	However, I referred to the working group currently under way, which is working together within the framework of the first anti-fraud plan, to ensure a legal initiative. They are working on a better cooperation between the parish, the tax authorities, the administration and the police.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u30	That is clear to me and is certainly still being prosecuted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u31	Minister, thank you for your answers. You did not answer my very specific question about how many tax officers are currently seconded to the prosecution and whether you are planning to increase that number. Yet I think that's part of the solution. It is clear that any legislative initiative that can improve matters is welcome, but in this case it is not just a matter of legislative initiative. There is a question of increasing material and human resources. That's what's missing. It would have been expected that, as the coordinator of the fight against fraud, you would have brought together the various ministers concerned and come to the conclusion that a drastic and rapid increase in these resources is necessary. I have the impression that it is not the track that is being followed at the moment. I would like to quote from the recent statement by investigating judge Michel Claise in La Libre Belgique: "The functioning of our society is in danger because of the metastases caused by financial crime. I have been saying this for years, the problem is the lack of resources. It is such that it does not allow us to fight against a phenomenon that gangens our democracy. I feel like I'm preaching in the desert."
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u32	Minister, thank you for your answers. I note the use of the interdepartmental provision. I welcome your willingness not to let this message of impunity spread. Of course, we agree on that. However, the reality is the one we have just mentioned, specifically the inability of a magistrate to prosecute certain offences. I hear the willingness to work together, and that is quite positive. I assume that we will have this debate as part of an exchange of views in Parliament on the anti-fraud plan. I repeat that the reality on the ground is to be taken into account and I stand there on my hunger; the way in which you confront your intention, which is quite commendable and which I fully share, but what comes to us from the ground concerns me somewhat.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u33	Minister, we have to go! You really have to go! In view of the signals sent to us by the Attorney General, as the investigating judge Michel Claise has said, who has been in charge of one of the biggest cases in the field of financial crime in recent years, as is the case of a whole series of other magistrates or grand clerks of the State who have distinguished themselves in the law of financial crime, we must go there. We need to look at this in Kern. Indeed, financial crime is dangerous and really attacks the foundations of our State in every respect, whether it be its fundamental values, its finances or its strategic interests. In addition to this, cybercrime is a real danger which also carries particularly serious and often irremediable harm. In short, all this financial crime to which great tax fraud is very often linked must, in my view, be a top priority for the government. In times of crisis in public finances, this will be a source of additional revenue that we will not have to look for by making savings in the context of certain impostures – I would say – of economic and fiscal policies that still want austerity to be imposed while there are masses of money to go for by fighting financial crime better. Mr. Minister of Finance, we really need to be able to build operational capacity with your colleagues in Justice and the Interior. We have the legal corpus. Whether it is at the level of criminal law, whether it is at the level of tax law or at the level of money laundering, we have all the necessary legal elements. The operational capacity remains at the level of the judiciary, the police, the Special Tax Inspectorate, the OCDFO, the OCRC and customs. In short, the entire state apparatus must be mobilized to reverse those criminals who are unscrupulous and who have been flouting our fundamental interests for too long.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u34	This government wants to raise EUR 1 billion in the fight against fraud, but in the meantime attorney general Delmull stated that the Brussels federal judicial police will no longer investigate all financial and economic and tax offences. Thus, while the Minister of Finance is pretending to be a white knight who is going to fight tax fraud, loose tax fraud is de facto guided by this period of government. In the meantime, it has become clear that the billions of money promised to combat fraud in the budget are in fact nothing more than hot air. The Attorney General refers to the shortage of qualified researchers and the unfilled vacancies as reasons to make the loopholes of the network even greater. Minister of Justice, or should we say Minister of Announcement Policy? In response to the statements of the Brussels Attorney General, Van Quickenborne immediately announced that he would make even more use of recruitments to the judicial police. He admits immediately that it will not be obvious. The extra millions that Van Quickenborne announced for Justice have probably already been published, announced and re-published ten times, but in reality we see that justice, including in the area of tax fraud, has to let go of the reins. That is our conclusion after what we have heard again here today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u35	Question No 55019102C by Mr Lacroix is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u36	Madam President, Minister, this is an old question, but I would like to update it, because it deals with the fundamental issue of the right of access to justice. It was, moreover, initially addressed to your Justice counterpart. On 10 June 2018, the Constitutional Court handed down a ruling which annulled articles 2 and 3 of the Act of 14 October 2018 amending the Code of Registration, Mortgage and Registry Rights with a view to reforming the rights of registry She confirmed that the increase in registry fees that had been introduced under the Michel government was illegal in that the cost of access to justice had thus become far too high for too many litigants, which my group had pointed out in the parliamentary debates on this law. We can therefore only rejoice at this decision. However, the effects of the cancellation of these items are limited. Indeed, the increase in registry fees is cancelled only "for those litigants whose case was entered on the roll between February 1, 2019 and August 31, 2020, who were sentenced to pay the duty of placing on the roll no later than August 31, 2020, and whose revenues are located between the old and the new legal aid ceilings." In other words, the annulment does not concern most litigants who either brought proceedings outside that period or whose proceedings are not yet closed. The question also arises as to the information to be given to the persons concerned by this judgment and the possibility of reimbursement. Therefore, Minister, how will the reimbursement of the persons concerned be arranged? Will you proactively identify all those eligible for this rebate? If not, could an information campaign be launched? What steps should be taken by those expressing a willingness to be reimbursed and by what time frame? How does the government intend to follow up on the annulment of Articles 2 and 3 of the Act of 14 October 2018, in order to remove the too many financial obstacles to access to justice?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u37	The law of 14 October 2018, which reformed the registry fees, came into force on 1 February 2019. It was the subject of an appeal for annulment before the Constitutional Court. The decision of the Constitutional Court gives rise to the right to restitution of the rights of assignment already paid by the litigants referred to in the decision. However, it is technically impossible for transplant staff to proactively identify all eligible individuals. The Registrar does not have any evidence to establish the means of subsistence of the litigants. In addition, the accounts of the registries are closed each month. In such circumstances, the registry staff may not identify any beneficiaries or make the refund. It is therefore for those who may be affected by the decision of the Constitutional Court and the Office of Legal Assistance to gather the evidence and supporting documents, and to file an application for restitution with the competent Federal Public Service (SPF) Finance. There is ongoing consultation within my department. I will also instruct my department to consult with the relevant services within the FPS Justice with a view to providing information explaining to those who may be affected by the judgment delivered on 10 June. At stake are the right to restitution which it gives rise to in the head of certain persons and the steps to be taken by them to benefit from such restitution. In its judgment of 10 June, the Constitutional Court stated that "the indistinct increase in rights of appointment has, since 1 September 2020, been counterbalanced sufficiently and proportionately by the increase in the ceilings for second-line legal aid and legal aid, as well as by the other measures provided for by the Act of 31 July 2020". This law has increased access to second-line legal aid and legal aid by EUR 200 and also provides for additional increases of EUR 100 on 1 September of each year until 2023. As of September 1, 2024, the ceilings will be indexed annually. The Act also provides for a number of new criteria for the calculation of livelihoods. It is therefore not necessary to adapt the ceilings further during this term.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u38	Thank you, minister, for your answer, even if I admit that I am a little surprised, not to say much. I understand that it would not now be technically possible for the registry services to identify persons who could therefore benefit from this right of restitution. This means that today it is once again up to the litigants to do the work of forming a file to ensure that the rights granted to them are enjoyed. It's the reign of the scramble, again, in their head. I therefore regret the lack of pro-activity and the lack of more support for registry staff. This staff is being reduced and there is, it is true, a shortage of staff in the various justice services, including the registry staff. Therefore, in the absence of such a right, more support should be given to individuals in order to ensure that they benefit from their actual rights. With regard to the broader issue of the right of access to justice, I understand that raising the ceilings for access to legal aid can be seen as giving adequate access to the right to justice, and that, therefore, the financial obstacles to the exercise of this right have been sufficiently removed. It must be noted that too many people still refuse to assert their rights because they consider that financial restraints are still too numerous today. I therefore encourage you, together with your colleague the Minister of Justice, to have a real, more comprehensive reflection on the right to justice. I also encourage you, why not, to provide for a reduced role-playing right for people whose income barely exceeds the upper limit for second-line legal aid. It was also a lead that had been launched at the time by the Council of State. The proceeds of registry fees could also be allocated to legal aid funding. Here are some leads that have been launched for too long by the sector and that remain dead letter. We need to be able to think more comprehensively in order to offer solutions to all litigants. I have not heard you on this point: the Constitutional Court's ruling offers a solution only to certain people, those who are in very limited conditions. This does not meet the needs of a whole range of litigants who are faced with registry fees which are still too important today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u39	Madam President, Minister, on June 10, the report was released, no matter what the cost, which analyses the debts owed by the countries of the South to the private sector. The report shows that in 2019, private creditors held 60 per cent of the external debt of the countries of the South, up from 45 per cent in 2010. For the 68 lowest-income countries, this share is 19% in 2019, compared to 8% in 2010. This rise in power is explained by the fact that, on the one hand, since the 2008 financial crisis, development aid has stagnated, or even decreased, and, on the other hand, private investors are looking for profitable investments. The debt relief system introduced by the G20 in the context of the covid-19 crisis does not apply to private creditors who are "only invited" to participate. As a result, between May and December 2020 alone, the 46 countries that benefited from the moratorium also paid $6.94 billion to private creditors, including new emergency loans from the International Monetary Fund (IMF). The report also shows that several Belgian-based financial institutions play a role in the debt of low-income countries. The report concludes with the following recommendations: obliging creditors to take their fair part in debt relief mechanisms; obliging private creditors to be transparent; supporting the establishment of a multilateral debt restructuring mechanism within the United Nations; and legislating to protect debtor countries from vulture funds. Minister, what initiatives are you going to take with respect to the recommendations in this report? Do you intend to contact the directorates of the Belgian financial institutions referred to in this report immediately to ask them to act on the same line as the creditor states, i.e. suspend payment of their claims on the impoverished countries of the South? More broadly, what is the state of play in the government's action to cancel the debts of developing countries?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u40	Belgium supports debt relief initiatives where necessary and at the request of the debtor country within a European and multilateral framework. This is the case, for example, in the context of the Paris club. The main objective of such an operation is to preserve progress in poverty reduction and sustainable development, as well as to enable a sustainable recovery. Transparency is an important focus for Belgium. We support the initiatives of financial and international institutions to increase transparency in debt matters. The participation of the private sector in the Dept Service Suspension Initiative is indeed disappointing. The DSSI provided little leverage to achieve this, with rapid action being the primary and essential objective for giving the countries concerned a financial respite. The Common Framework developed by the G20 aims at more structural solutions and provides a stronger framework for involving the private sector as public debt relief can be called into question if there is no fair burden-sharing with the private sector. Initial experiments will indicate whether such an approach is sufficient. In general, it is not obvious to influence the behaviour of individual financial institutions in this area, if such an approach was truly desirable. These operations take place at a multilateral level. Equitable burden-sharing must therefore be addressed at the international level. In this context, it is also important to underline Belgium's pioneering role at the global level in the fight against vulture funds through the passing of a law limiting their actions to Belgian judicial bodies. Belgium will continue to participate actively in various forums dealing with this issue and encouraging debt relief for low-income countries within a predefined multilateral framework. This is currently the case with the Common Framework. This would ideally be adopted by as many official and private creditors as possible in order to maximize the impact of relief on recipient countries. In conclusion, I would like to mention that I, together with Minister Kitir, have developed a strategic note on debt relief that offers us the leading lines in this area for the years to come.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u41	Minister, thank you for this comprehensive response. You know that environmentalists are on the front line in such a case. Debts are really problematic for those countries that are experiencing the greatest difficulties in supporting their own people or, simply, in terms of financial capacity. I therefore thank you for the details that we will certainly come back to.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u42	Mr Piedboeuf, public services may be punished in the event of late or incorrect delivery of the forms referred to in Article 57 of the Income Tax Code 1992. In answer to your second question, I can tell you that public services are punished in the same way as citizens and businesses, in order to respect the equal treatment of taxpayers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u43	It's perfect. Minister, your answer reassures the citizen that I am and all those involved in this kind of mistake.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u44	It was an exchange at Lucky Luke, since everyone pulled faster than their shadow.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u45	In July 2021, the High Council of Finance published the first report on the so-called broad fiscal reform, which we have, of course, looked at with great attention. In this report, the Hoge Raad voor Financiën examined a number of proposals which could help finance the basic scenario which has now been published in the press, including the abolition of the special contribution to social security. This includes, among other things, the general abolition of the tax regime on copyright. That also came up in the article this weekend in De Tijd. The original aim of the copyright system was to prevent writers working for several years on a piece of paper, achieving their income in a single taxable era, from undermining the tax burden due to the progressiveness of the tax scales. The abolition of the copyright system will, of course, have an impact on income from personal income at the federal but also at the regional level. Hence four questions. Is the government considering a complete or partial abolition of that tax regime? Can you clarify that? If this were to be a partial abolition, what restrictions would be envisaged in relation to the current system? What is the budgetary impact of this complete abolition, in millions of euros? In the event of a complete abolition of the system, is the government considering compensatory measures for taxable persons who are entitled to such compensation? That is very important, and I read in the French-speaking press that some authors are standing on their backs.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u46	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Piedboeuf, the preparation of the copyright sheet 281.45 is indeed optional. In order to be able to consider contributions constituting professional income as professional expenses in respect of the debtor, the law provides that the beneficiary may file a form 281.50 as evidence. The administration accepts in a pragmatic spirit that the form 281.45 can be used as evidence in lieu of the form 281.50 for the deduction of professional expenses relating to income resulting from the assignment or grant of copyright. The advantage of the fact sheet 281.45 is that all cash income is mentioned in it regardless of whether or not it constitutes professional income in the recipient's head. Mr Vermeersch, as far as your questions are concerned, I can give you the following. I am not going to anticipate the forthcoming budgetary control and the possible measures that could, of course, be proposed there. In any case, I can tell you that the government confirmed a number of commitments in the framework of the fraud plan some time ago. It highlights, inter alia, the need to clarify the scope of the current copyright regime and to correct certain inaccuracies in the current texts. That's what we're working on right now. In addition, I have also proposed to supplement the Income Tax Code with a legal obligation to supply the Facts 281.45 with regard to this income. This adaptation will therefore shortly be submitted to Parliament in the framework of a draft law on various tax provisions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u47	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your answer to clarify the situation with respect to these two types of cards.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u48	You refer to your commitments under the fraud plan. However, I would like to stress that some people find that, in addition to fraud, there is also abuse of the system. However, this does not mean that everyone who uses the system is fraudulent. What about the people who use it with justice and reason? Are they entitled to compensatory measures, or partial or total abolition? You're not actually answering that. You simply refer to the various tax provisions in which you will clarify a number of things. We will certainly come back to this later. Last weekend, you made a proposal that we have already made here when discussing the broader fiscal reforms, and in particular the basic proposal of the High Council for Finance, namely the removal of these special social security contributions and the raising of the duty-free minimum. These are the two measures in the basic proposal. The cost of this special contribution is estimated at EUR 1.2 billion. You have a number of compensatory measures in place, such as the RSZ contribution for footballers, the copyright favor regime and so on. You can also fish the second stays. Is that gonna be okay? You are talking about a tax shift, but I do not have the impression that it is a full tax shift. I do not think the measures you mention represent EUR 1.2 billion.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u49	Minister, my question is about the proper use of the French language. Article 8 of the law of 15 July 2020 known as CORONA III states that "The consumer cheque referred to in Article 7 constitutes a professional fee in accordance with Article 49 of the Income Tax Code 1992".
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u50	Mr. Piedboeuf, this is a spelling error, which will be corrected by a next bill. Indeed, the terms beroepskosten and beroepskost, used in Dutch, must correspond the terms "frai(s) professionnel(s)" in the French version of the tax provisions. I would point out that this error has no effect on the application of the legal provision concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u51	Minister, thank you for your answer. I suspect that, but you know that some tax advisors at the end of the day are tired and upset to see such mistakes. Also, I would allow myself to relay the remark to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u52	Madam President, Mr Piedboeuf, the difference between the figures concerned comes from the number of directors of companies and the number of assisting spouses receiving remuneration. These two categories are also considered independent but were not explicitly requested in your question. During the 2019 tax year, the 2018 income year, there were 440,195 business leaders and 18,256 paid helpers. As regards self-employed persons in supplementary employment, they must complete a code in their return to the tax of natural persons because the supplementary activities do not qualify for the tax credit for low activity income. However, not all self-employed persons in supplementary employment complete this code. Indeed, if their taxable income from all their activities exceeds a certain amount, they cannot benefit from this tax credit. In addition, I confirm that the FPS Finance provides INASTI with the taxable income of the self-employed for the calculation of social contributions. Finally, it should be noted that the data provided by INASTI on the number of self-employed members come from the social insurance funds. It also includes self-employed persons who have not received income.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u53	Minister, thank you for your answer. The riddles are clearing up. We're converging towards coherence. That's a good thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u54	Questions Nos. 55019588C and 55020645C by Ms. Jadin are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u55	The agreement of 1 July this year on the introduction of a minimum tax on multinational companies only incorporates the broad lines and principles agreed by the 130 Member States of the inclusive framework. I can inform you that, in the meantime, three other States have accepted the agreement. This agreement makes it clear that the objective is to reach agreement on more concrete modalities for minimum taxation by October 2021. Therefore, I cannot give you any further information on this matter at this time. It will be possible to estimate the impact of these minimum taxes on public finances only when the concrete modalities of the system are clear. However, the Federal Public Service Study Service (FPS) Finance is currently working on a model to estimate the precise impact. Once the modalities are known, it will be possible to make an estimate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u56	Thank you for your answer. Indeed, it is an important subject with a potential impact on Belgian taxation and finance that can be estimated at several million euros. Let us not be too optimistic either. October 2021 is tomorrow – currently in three days – and we are looking forward to being able to immerse ourselves in what will emerge from more concrete discussions and the FPS Finance reports.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u57	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Creyelman's point of order was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u58	Madam President, Minister, on 25 June the FATF put Malta on its grey list. The FATF is an international organisation that monitors compliance with international standards against money laundering and terrorist financing. For the European Union, it is particularly painful that for the first time a Member State should be placed on the FATF's grey list. We must be able to expect the European institutions to be able to sufficiently force Member States to adopt policies in line with international standards on money laundering and terrorist financing. That's why I have the following questions for you. How do you look at this first precedent whereby a Member State of the European Union is put on the grey list by the FATF? How do you estimate the consequences for Malta? Do you expect a fall in financial activity on the island, and can this have an impact on the European Union and Belgium? Are other Member States also at risk of being condemned by the FATF? I am thinking in particular of Member States where organized crime is also gaining ground, and of Member States which, on several occasions, do not implement the FATF recommendations. How far does our country stand in implementing the recommendations made by the FATF in the past? In its follow-up report of September 2018, the FATF recognised our country's efforts. At the same time, our scores on some key indicators remained too low. In what way do you believe that your policy will convince the FATF more of our efforts in the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u59	Madam President, Mr Vanbesien, in his evaluations, the FATF assesses, on the one hand, the legislative and regulatory framework for combating money laundering and terrorist financing and, on the other hand, the effectiveness of that framework. Malta received a relatively good assessment in terms of technical conformity, but was put on its grey list by the FATF due to shortcomings in terms of effectiveness. The list shows that it is important not only for European Member States to transpose the European Anti-Money Laundering Directive into national law, but also for it to be applied effectively in practice. It is difficult to assess the exact consequences for Malta, but it is to be expected that the listing for Malta will result not only in image damage but also in some financial damage. Indeed, the recent IMF paper on the impact of such a greylisting on financial flows of the countries concerned shows that the inclusion on a greylist results in a statistically significant reduction in capital inflows. As Malta is a European Member State, Malta will not be included on the European list of high AML risk third countries. The list will probably strengthen the European Commission's conviction to further centralise and coordinate the approach to money laundering at European level, as demonstrated by the recent AML package proposed by the Commission. Belgian subject entities may apply enhanced vigilance measures to clients and transactions associated with Malta as a result of Malta's listing. The current FATF review round from 2014 to 2023 is coming to an end and most European Member States have already been evaluated without any listing on the grey list, with the exception of Malta. Since all EU Member States have a large share of the same AML framework imposed by the EU, it is unlikely that other Member States will be included in the FATF's grey list due to technical conformity deficiencies. A list of EU Member States due to shortcomings in effectiveness is, in principle, possible. The fight against money laundering and the financing of terrorism is being pursued in various areas and includes both preventive and repressive aspects. The removal of the shortcomings found by the FATF in Belgium in the past is therefore an assignment with which the entire government cooperates. As demonstrated by the 2018 follow-up report, Belgium has eliminated the main technical conformity deficiencies identified by the FATF. The government continues to work to make the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing more effective. For example, a public-private consultation platform against money laundering has recently been established at my initiative in which public administrations work together with representatives from the private sector. I have also expressed my support for the European Commission's AML package and will ensure that Belgium implements the measures in the package in a timely and adequate manner once the package has been approved.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u60	Thank you very much for your reply, Minister. From this, I implicitly understand that you, like myself, think that organisations such as FATF are actually an ally of ours. We must cherish the work they do. The comments they make on our country are valuable and must help us to move in the right direction, not only in terms of technicality but also in terms of effectiveness. You're working on that, too, for which I'm grateful. The comments to other countries must also be taken seriously and should be a basis for addressing other countries. In this case, strong language can certainly be spoken to Malta. If we are to bear in our hearts the fight against money laundering and terrorism, all countries must include the hatchet and not just our country. Otherwise, there's no point.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u61	Madam President, Minister, the European Commission should propose within a few days that kerosene be taxed on intra-European flights. This taxation of kerosene will be presented in the "Fit for 55" legislative package, referring to the ambition to reduce the continent's carbon emissions by 55% by 2030. An article of the 2003 Energy Taxation Directive exempts aviation (other than recreational private flights) from this legislation which sets minimum levels of taxation for energy, fuel, fuel products and defines exemptions or tax reductions, some of which are therefore mandatory. This exemption for aviation should end at last. According to the draft text, kerosene would be taxed progressively over the next ten years, by increasing the final undelivered rate on intra-EU flights every year by 1/10th. In connection with the government agreement which provides for support for such a kerosene tax, I would like to know what position Belgium has on this issue at European level and what is the state of play in the discussions. What are the modalities of this future kerosene tax, which we clearly call for?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u62	"Les extremes se touchent," but our party is not warm for a kerosene tax, Mr Vanden Burre. But let me return to my question, which was inspired by the report of the Supreme Court of Finance, in which he puts forward a number of proposals to finance the baseline scenario, including the introduction of a kerosene tax. The budgetary impact is estimated at EUR 1.2 billion. This has already compensated for the abolition of the special contribution to social security, amounting to EUR 1.15 billion. The High Council of Finance does recommend that this tax be introduced together with the other European Member States. So where are the European and international initiatives in this area? Do you have any information on that? When can a kerosene tax be introduced at the earliest? We also had to note that the plastic tax was finally introduced to finance the European budget. Is there any chance that kerosene tax will also have to harden the European budget? If the kerosene tax is indeed proposed to finance the European budget, what will be the attitude of Belgium if no agreement is reached on it at international or European level? Will Belgium introduce a kerosene tax? What do you think are the consequences of a kerosene tax on our aviation sector and the private and business travel sector? Do you have any eyes on that yet?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u63	A proposal to amend the European Taxation Directive on energy products and electricity is currently on the table. The revision of the exemption for kerosene is part of the proposal. The Commission's proposal provides for a tax on kerosene in general and an exemption for cargo cargo only within the European Union. However, Member States would be able to conclude bilateral agreements to tax the air cargo concerned as well. Discussions at European level have just started last month. In accordance with the coalition agreement, as I stated in my policy statement, I support a review of the exemption on kerosene. If we want to discourage the use of fossil fuels, a tax exemption on kerosene is no longer justified. The Commission proposal provides for the Directive to enter into force on 1 January 2023. With regard specifically to kerosene, the proposal currently provides for a transitional period of 10 years. Taxation of energy products is a national issue, which is harmonised at European level in a directive. Nor is there any indication that a levy on kerosene would be in favour of the European budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u64	Minister, thank you. I am glad to see that you are reiterating your support for the introduction of such a kerosene tax in the government agreement. This removes an unfair tax deduction from the aviation sector since other sectors had to pay such a tax. That goes in the right direction. We're talking about January 2023. It is also important that this can be achieved at European level. The problem with referring such subjects at European level – and it makes sense that such a tax operates at European level – is that it sometimes takes a lot of time and even more time than implementing measures in Belgium. Here we see that it is moving forward, that a direction has been taken with the Fit for 55 project. It's important. We continue to follow the matter very closely with our European colleagues. We're clearly moving in the right direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u65	Minister, I have already said that the Flemish interest is not so hot for a kerosene tax. It is true that there is no alternative to aeroplanes on kerosene. For example, there are electrical alternatives for cars, but there are no affordable alternatives for mass transport by air today. That is why we see a kerosene tax as a flat tax increase. The hardworking Fleming is already being taxed and if he wants to go abroad in the summer, then he should also pay a little more for his plane tickets. We would very much regret that. We certainly do not support this measure in view of the current technological development of mass transport.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u66	In Flanders, social landlords can conduct research on foreign properties of prospective tenants through external agencies. However, OMCWs cannot call on such external agencies to conduct a foreign property investigation because social research is an exclusive and non-delegable task of the centres themselves and because the staff of those centres are subject to professional secrecy in accordance with Article 458 of the Criminal Code. In response to a question from Ghent city council member Mrs Persyn regarding cohabitation fraud, the competent ships, Mr Coddens, stated that the federal government has the intention to access data on foreign property and assets through the FPS Finance and to make it available to the OCMWs. Can you confirm that intention? If so, when will these data be used in practice by the OMCWs? Within what framework will such data be used by the OMCWs? How will these data be used by the OCMWs?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u67	The FPS Finance has been contacted by the programmatic federal government POD Social Integration to make certain income data relating to real estate available to the OCMWs. The provision and use of such data concerns a processing of personal data to which the General Data Protection Regulation applies. In addition, communications of personal data by federal authorities to non-public social security institutions, such as the OCMWs, require prior consultation of the United Chambers of the Information Security Committee. The PPS Social Integration has submitted an application for this, with the result that the communication of the requested personal data is allowed within the performance of a legal mandate, provided that certain data protection measures are complied with. According to the latest information available to me, every effort is being made to make the flow of information to the OMCWs effective by the end of the year.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u68	I am pleased with your answer. For the OMCWs, having these data on foreign assets and property is an important means and even an important weapon in the fight against social fraud. Social fraud is committed by certain people in order to cheat our social security, while others who are entitled to social security are indirectly or even directly affected by it. For the Flemish Interest it is quite clear: anyone who has real estate and assets abroad has no right to the items offered by our OCMWs. That's fraud and scam. We all agree that we must put a stop to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u69	Minister, the Maastricht standards and the Stability and Growth Pact no longer require further explanations in this committee. At the start of the corona crisis, the European Commission activated the general escape clause. Budgetary standards will come back into force at the earliest in 2023. Meanwhile, under the guidance of the European Commission, there is a strong debate on the application of the rules. Wallonia is also meddling in this debate. The Walloon Minister for Budget Crucke urged this government to apply flexible fiscal rules in the budget. At present, these budgetary rules are not being monitored too closely because of the coronapandemic, but the current disasters deserve an equally favourable treatment according to Crücke. Minister, do you support the Walloon plea for further suspension and relaxation of European budgetary rules? Do you think this is desirable in the light of the worrying situation of Walloon finances, to put it mildly? What is your position on the reform of the budgetary rules? Should Maastricht standards be put on the spot? Have you discussed this with your regional colleagues? How will we ultimately arrive at a common position at European level? Following the informal meeting of the European Finance Ministers in Slovenia, eight smaller European countries, the so-called Hanzeliga consisting of the Netherlands, Austria, Denmark, Latvia, Slovakia, the Czech Republic, Finland and Sweden, have launched a plea to avoid abandoning budgetary discipline. Was Belgium involved in this initiative? Was Belgium actually welcome within this group, given the problematic state of public finances in this country? The Flemish Minister of Finance and Budget Diependaele fully supported the call of the Hanzeliga. He said that sticking to European budgetary rules is of the utmost importance in securing the prosperity of the next generation of Flemings. Do you fully support that call? If not, why? Minister Diependaele also stated that he would advocate that position at the federal level. Has he contacted you in the meantime? Have you had a conversation with your Flemish colleague? If so, what was discussed? On what point did the Flemish Minister press you? What is Belgium's position on the future of European budgetary rules?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u70	Minister, I think you've had a nice day, because you were a guest at Ghent University, at the Department of Economics, where you gave the opening lecture. We have been able to monitor this through the social media. I noticed two things. Firstly, you referred to the fact that the Swedish Government was somewhat more ideologically consistent, but that it could not have fully fulfilled the expectations and that the reforms could have been more ambitious. Then I think it might have been more fun for you if you had been in the previous government. At that time, there was another CD&V minister. A second thing that struck me at the opening college is that you referred to Jean-Luc Dehaene and the great reform he has undertaken to bring the euro into the overall plan. You say that there was European pressure on the Member States to implement a number of economic reforms and to improve their situation in the budget. Those Maastricht rules still exist, although they are under discussion. Mr Vermeersch referred to this earlier. Given your passion for the work of prominent MEP Jean-Luc Dehaene, I wonder whether you share that love with Jean-Luc Dehaene for clear European rules that must be enforceable and motivate those Member States to put things in order. Will you also take initiatives in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u71	Thank you for your interest in my daily schedule. My day started bringing my daughter to school. Then I had the opportunity to have a conversation with the people of Mittal about the large investments they make in the region of Ghent. After that indeed followed the interesting opening lecture, with a lot of interesting questions that I got afterwards. In the context of the debate on European budgetary rules, a number of elements are important. This is a subject on which we will be discussing both within the Eurogroup and the Ecofin Council in the coming period, as well as in the debriefing sessions which we have already had here several times and which we will have in the future. With regard to the suspension of budgetary rules, at the moment there is the general escape clause, the general escape clause. This will allow Member States to provide an appropriate response to the severe economic consequences of the covid pandemic. At European level, there is an agreement to allow the escape clause to exist until the end of 2022 and then to be extinguished. A further suspension will not be discussed. We have always said that we will allow this to happen until our economy is back at the level before the covid crisis. I think this is already the case in 19 of the 27 Member States. So it makes sense that this will fade out at the end of next year. Moreover, there is no European Finance Minister who is in favour of an extension. As regards the revision of the budgetary rules, it is indeed expected that the European Commission will launch the public consultation on the two pack and six pack in the autumn. A very formal discussion between Member States should therefore only be expected in 2022, knowing that there will be a number of further elections in certain Member States. We now have the elections in Germany behind us and the elections in France are coming. So that will undoubtedly affect the agenda. The internal Belgian consultation will take place through the regular channels. I would like to point out that there is also a formal DGE meeting for each Ecofin meeting to which all entities are invited. As far as my position on the possible revision is concerned, it is particularly important for me to have clear rules that everyone must and can abide by. After all, budgetary discipline is important to ensure the sustainability of our public finances in the medium term. Even though Maastricht standards may no longer be fully adapted to current realities, it is not right for me to change them. Rules are important, especially in view of the need for sound public finances. If we wanted to change the rules, you would also know the consequences. A treaty change is needed for this, and that is very time-consuming. Moreover, I do not believe that this is politically feasible at the moment. A more realistic approach seems to me to be the revision of the so-called debt rule. The starting point of the Stability and Growth Pact is, of course, the strengthening and consolidation of debt deleveraging. The current debt rule has not always produced the desired results. If we are to maintain public finances better, we also need to consider realistic and more enforceable debt pathways for the different Member States. The debate also deals with investment. Belgium has always been in favour of taking into account growth-enhancing productive investments when assessing whether a Member State has made sufficient structural efforts. Given the challenges of the green and digital transition, as well as the low public investment ratio in our country, this is a discussion that is particularly crucial to me. When governments attract the fiscal leash, they often tend to cut investments, often leading to growth, additional productivity and jobs. In addition, they are also an important catalyst because many public investments provide more private investment, especially in the green and digital transition we are now experiencing. I'll come to the Hanzeliga's pleas. We are not involved, like France, among other things. I found their plea quite open because they leave openings for an adaptation of the rules. In particular, I have had many informal contacts in the Benelux context, with the Commission and with colleagues from both the southern Member States and the Hanzeliga. I would like to stress that the discussion we had at the informal Ecofin Council in Slovenia did not increase the North-South opposition as much as is sometimes suggested here. It is clear that all the countries of the so-called Hanzeliga have also been involved in the debates. There is, as I have just said, some opening up in the letter sent by the eight countries concerned for an amendment to the rules. In any case, I can only conclude that, if we want to get somewhere and ensure that good, realistic pathways towards debt building are launched in the coming years and if we want investment to be encouraged, we will only succeed in achieving a political consensus within the European Union if we come up with realistic proposals on these rules.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u72	Madam President, Minister, you are in favour of clear rules, but then you will not be given a specific answer as to what those rules should be. You stay on the plain. It's all a little woolly. That is in stark contrast to what the Hanzeliga has done, which does work more concretely. I also understand from your failure to answer my question that Belgium, like the France you mentioned, was actually not welcome within that group, not only because of our problematic finances, but also because of our typical Belgian attitude on the one hand, and we do not dare to take a specific position. Let's be clear. You also referred to it: perhaps everyone will not look into their cards until after the French presidential elections in spring 2022 and will eventually crystallise everything. Most Member States agree that at least the rules will need to be modernised. In the interests of sound public finances, we believe it is important not only to simplify budgetary rules, but also to maintain budgetary discipline. Healthy public finances are the cornerstone for dealing with future crises. If the current situation has taught us one thing, it is that Wallonia and Belgium were not prepared for crises. That is the result of the blood red figures, both in Wallonia and at Belgian level. Because of the woolly position that Belgium is defending in committee again today, it risks falling apart in Europe. So let us be honest, Belgium was not welcome at the Hanzeliga, Belgium is ultimately one of the weak and guilty countries of Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u73	Thank you very much for your reply, Minister. I would like to say a few things. First of all, you say that we have not been asked and neither has France. (...) Neither did France, you said.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u74	I apologise, I'll straighten it out immediately: it's Germany that hasn't been asked either. I would like to stress that, I apologize.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u75	Then maybe it was a freudian lapsus. That is why we are surprised: Italy has not been asked, nor has Spain. I don't think they should expect a quick question to sign with either. Germany is logical, at least until now, we will see what the future will bring in Germany. Next, I fully agree that the rules are important. Let us be honest at the same time: the rules are not being complied with today. In this Parliament, it is very often said that Europe has now placed the rules under a slap or pressed the pause button. That's not exactly right. Greater flexibility is allowed, given the corona context, but provided that financial stability is not compromised. The European Union is also expressing this sentence, but I do not hear anyone in this Parliament expressing it, while the figures are starting to assume alarming proportions. One pretends that Belgium has come out of the corona crisis well and is holding. What is reality? In the European Union, all other countries, except three, will record higher economic growth than Belgium. All countries will have a smaller budget deficit by 2024. In 2024, according to the IMF, Belgium will have the largest budget deficit in Europe. This morning we asked Mrs De Bleeker, Secretary of State for the Budget, about this. In fact, she is afraid to repeat the commitments of the coalition agreement. The government agreement states that, from next year onwards, firm and variable efforts will be made in the budget, which will be translated into purely mathematically into an exercise of EUR 3 billion. When it makes that determination, which is nothing more than the reading of the coalition agreement that you all put on paper in October last year, it is overloaded with pitch and feathers, especially by the PS. All the alarms aren't on orange, they're on red. I very much like to hear talk about productive investments, but I sometimes have the impression that every investment is called productive. That won't be the answer. If these countries do not ask us to sign with them, I would invite you to contact them yourself. It's high time we and you confessed to color. That means looking north and not towards France.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u76	Madam President, Minister, in view of the late hour and your busy agenda, I would like to refer to my written preparation, on the understanding that the question was not addressed to you on 8 July, but to the Minister of Justice. I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u77	Mrs Dillen, the percentage of checks must be put in the right context. This concerns the number of controlled containers selected for control following a 100 % digital risk analysis of all containers. In other words, the General Administration of Customs and Excise is already screening all containers placed in our ports. Physical control of all containers is neither feasible nor desirable. In the fight against drugs, however, it is intended to scan physically all containers at risk of the presence of drugs. According to an estimate, this amounts to about 10% of the containers. The necessary projects are being launched and consultations with the terminal operators concerned and the port company are under way. The operationalisation of the project will of course be phased out. The ports of Ghent and Zeebrugge already comply with the international code on ship and port security. As for all strategic locations of work, the General Administration of Customs and Excise always ensures that there are sufficient means of control to stop illegal goods and illegal practices. In that context, by the end of October 2021, customs expect the delivery of two additional mobile backscatter cargoscanners for deployment in our seaports. Your question on the bill on the port ban for drug criminals should be addressed to the Minister of Justice, but I understand that this draft was submitted to Parliament at the beginning of September.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u78	Mr Minister, the fourth question was indeed addressed to the Minister of Justice, because the question was addressed to him in its entirety. In any case, I can say that this bill has not yet been published, but that is obviously not your competence. Do I understand correctly that it is intended to check 10 % of containers instead of the 2.38 % that was checked in the first quarter? If that is the case, this would be contrary to the announcement made by Minister Van Quickenborne in the plenary session of 8 July 2021 that, thanks to your efforts, every container will be scanned. Minister, 10% is absolutely not enough, so I dare to insist on a higher figure, especially in the large ports of Antwerp and Zeebrugge.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u79	Mrs Dillen, the 100 % scanning project we have set up aims to scan 100 % of the high-risk containers. For each container entering the country, a risk analysis is carried out. That risk analysis looks at the origin of the container, who will provide the logistical support and the like. The aim is indeed to scan all containers that are classified as high risk. The percentage of 10% indicates the number of high-risk containers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u80	Madam President, we are jumping from the European budgetary rules on the control of containers to the great delay of packages from outside the European Union. I would like to refer to my question as it was tabled in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u81	Mr Vermeersch, when the new rules on e-commerce entered into force on 1 July last, customs launched the first module, module H7, of a brand new declaration system specifically aimed at the declaration of low value consignments. This was a success, since Belgian customs had no problems meeting the European deadline of 1 July. Thanks to the new declaration system, customs can cope with the administrative workload associated with the additional declaration for low-value consignments. The press reported delays with bpost, but the new declaration system works properly and declarations are usually processed very quickly. Any delay in handling is therefore by no means due to customs problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u82	Mr Minister, you also replied to my question about the delays in the delivery of packages from Great Britain that the problem was not with customs. We are certainly following the situation closely. I have, moreover, taken note of a proposal from the Secretary of State for the Budget to tax packages of less than EUR 22. If that is carried out, it may also have an impact. Anyway, I'll act on your answer and I'll pass it on.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u83	Mr Vermeersch, I would like to point out that the abolition of the VAT exemption on packages of less than EUR 22 was already included in the 2021 budget by EUR 125 million for 2021 and EUR 250 million for 2022.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u84	I would just like to quote: "As far as savings are concerned, the Secretary of State specifically mentions in the interview the reduction in the operating costs of the government, savings on the use of state buildings through the use of telework or the tax on Internet purchases below EUR 22."
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u85	Indeed, this is part of the firm budgetary effort, in accordance with the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u86	That's obvious.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u87	Minister, bank offices are being closed, ATMs are being removed, there are fewer and fewer printers available to print account extracts and manual banking operations are becoming increasingly expensive. For most consumers, digital banking is no problem, but there are still hundreds of thousands of Flemings and Walls who are not sufficiently skilled or equipped to track their accounts digitally. Febelfin and the federal government have reached agreement on a universal banking service for customers who cannot bank online or mobile. That is a good thing. With this account it will be possible to carry out 60 manual operations per year and collect money 24 times from an ATM from the bank in question. Printing account extracts is also part of the range of services offered by the bank. What is not included is the sending of extracts, for which a reasonable rate should be applied. We welcome this universal banking service, but we still see a number of downsides. Of course, 60 euros a year for a basic vision account is too expensive. Many banks already offer current accounts at a much lower price: Argenta, AXA Bank, Beobank, Bpost, KBC, Europabank and VDK Bank already have an account from 30 euros. We also find 24 cash withdrawals at our own bank too limited, especially as there are fewer and fewer vending machines and bank offices left. We should be able to do so at any machine. The problem of printing the account extracts is disturbing for the same reason. There are fewer and fewer bank offices and printers. The dispatch of the extracts is not provided for in the basic price and may thus ultimately be more expensive than the value of the stamps. That's gonna open the door for even higher costs. What is your response to these comments, Minister? Do you see any margin for negotiation to adjust the universal banking service by 2024? Or are all the modalities, conditions and rates fixed for three years anyway, until 30 June 2024? Can only be renegotiated with the banks after that? I would like more clarity on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u88	Like the whole package, the rate has been established following frequent and intensive consultations with colleagues Dermagne, De Bleeker and the sector. The sector was represented by Febelfin. I would stress that this EUR 60 is the maximum rate. Moreover, that ceiling shall apply until 30 June 2024. This means, in concrete terms, that banks that charge less than EUR 60 today may be able to increase their rates strictly, while banks that charge EUR 60 today cannot increase their prices during the duration of the charter. Banks charging more than 60 euros today must adjust their prices downwards. Of course, we can always discuss the amount, but current rates for similar packages suggest a frozen price of EUR 5 per month is acceptable. After all, there are today outliers, such as the EUR 30 to which you refer, on both sides of the tariff spectrum. Moreover, you should also see all this in conjunction with the restriction imposed on the cost of manual operations that are not included in the package. There the price is limited to a maximum of 1 euro per operation while today one dares to charge up to 2.5 euro. The charter universal banking service in this actually takes back the existing gentlemen's agreement that was concluded between Febelfin and the then Minister of Consumer Affairs. This also provided 24 free ATM cash withdrawals in the own network. Figures from Febelfin show that the average number of withdrawals per customer has decreased from 26 in 2015 to 21 in 2019 and even 13 in 2020. For the sake of clarity, that last drop is at least partly due to the lockdown period. On the basis of these figures, I would say that this figure is sufficient. We therefore see no reason to question this. The extra charge for cash withdrawals at the vending machines of other banks, the so-called interbank fee, partly passed on to their own customers, is part of the commercial autonomy of each bank. However, we hardly receive any complaints about this. The charter provides for a limitation on the tarification of shipping by post for cases where printing is not possible in the office. If the customer cannot print with the vending machines, he or she may opt for a monthly shipment whose maximum cost is limited in the charter. For the most common situation, in which one pays per envelope, this means that one can charge 1 euro per envelope plus postage. Here too, competition can play a major role as some banks are less charged today. As mentioned earlier, the charter was concluded after intensive negotiations with Febelfin and the relevant ministers. It is valid until 30 June 2024.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u89	Minister, Flemish Interest is very pleased that there is now a universal banking service. After all, our party has always included it for those customers who are not in the thriving digitalisation. For us, however, this initiative does not go far enough, it is too little too late. The universal banking service is not only very late for a lot of people, the government has not negotiated hard enough with the banks either. The maximum amount of 60 euros is too high and 24 free collections per year are not enough for us. By the way, the problem of printing account extracts opens the door to even higher costs. We support the universal banking service but we call on you to renegotiate with the banks.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u90	Minister, I refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u91	The European Banking Authority (EBA) has recognised the validity and functioning of the mortgage mandate as such. However, the weighting of the mortgage mandate's capital under the new Basel standards will be different. Current practice shows that, especially in the case of residential loans, the credit granted is often guaranteed by a combination of an effective mortgage with a mortgage mandate. The part of the credit guaranteed through the effective mortgage has a better capital weighting. This position of EBA could lead to a change in the relationship between the effective mortgage and the mortgage mandate and therefore a larger percentage of effective mortgage will have to be taken. Since the part of the credit guaranteed only by a mortgage mandate has the heavier capital weighting, it cannot be excluded that it has an impact on the applicable interest rate of the credit. However, it should be stressed that there is still competition between creditors in this area. The mortgage mandate will therefore continue to play a role from this point of view. The argument that in practice there are little or no problems in the functioning of the mortgage mandate did not convince EBA. Both the National Bank and EBA are fully independent for their tasks as prudential supervisor. It is therefore not for the Minister of Finance to intervene in any way. Again, the use of a mortgage mandate remains possible and even to a significant extent. However, banks will be encouraged to try to find a more reasonable distribution between the use of a mortgage listing and a mortgage warrant. As regards your question, Mr Vermeersch, on the cost of a mortgage credit, I can confirm that the government agreement states that, in consultation with the sector, the government is examining measures to reduce the cost of acquiring a property or refinancing a housing credit, in line with neighbouring countries. The main cost elements are indeed registration fees and notary fees, but for this I refer to the regionally competent ministers and the Minister of Justice. For the first part, I believe that a solution has already been found.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u92	Minister, it is clear that the European rules threaten to increase the cost of housing loans. This is a worrying evolution, which we must certainly follow in the coming weeks and months.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u93	Minister, you will no doubt have read my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u94	I'll fill them with an extra question. The government has decided to extend some of the aid measures, but I have not read about any aid measures for the aviation sector. Do you have any plans for this, especially in the light of the events in Germany?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u95	Mr Loones, we are not aware of the German decision and can therefore neither deny nor confirm your question. The Belgian State's support to Brussels Airlines is subject to ringfencing in accordance with the decision of the European Commission, which means that it can only be used for Brussels Airlines and not for the parent company and vice versa. In principle, German aid cannot be allocated to Brussels Airlines. In this sense, German decisions should not have an impact on Brussels Airlines. We are, of course, monitoring the financial situation closely, through our representatives on the board and in direct contacts between FPIM and Brussels Airlines' management. At present, there is no indication that Brussels Airlines would need additional aid. Brussels Airlines has already requested 2.9 million in profit certificates and 250 million of the loan from the total aid package of 290 million. It is expected to raise the remaining 37.1 million of the loan by the end of the year. From 2022 onwards, a structural improvement in the figures and the return to a break-even are expected.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u96	Mr Minister, I remember, firstly, that there are no indications that Brussels Airlines would need additional support and, secondly, that the aid granted by Belgium cannot be passed on to the parent company. Those seem to me to be two good principles.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u97	Minister, the Taliban were able to conquer Afghanistan, partly thanks to their financial strength. I ask you this question from your customs authority. Through the drug trade and the production of opium papaver, the radicalist group has become financially strong. Most of the opium and heroin in the world are from Afghanistan. Estimates are that this share is more than 80%. The Taliban leave the production of narcotics and addictive drugs to third parties, but they do impose a kind of tax on them. Last year, according to the UN, this would have been worth USD 460 million. The seizure of Afghan heroin in Azerbaijan is reported to have increased and heroin in neighbouring Afghanistan indicates that the production of drugs in Afghanistan has remained stable, including during the coronapandemic. Now that the radical Islamists have control of the country, the flow of income will only increase. It is therefore up to the government and customs to ensure that the Taliban's seizure of power does not lead to an even greater influx of opium and opium derivatives in that country if possible. I would have liked to have heard from the Minister what concrete action plan is being put in place to tackle heroin smuggling. By smuggling routes through Iran and Turkey, heroin is transported to Europe. Belgium is and remains an important gateway to the marketing of cocaine and heroin on the European market. In 2019, 1.9 tons of heroin were intercepted in our country. This amounts to 24% of seizures in Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u98	In 2021, the customs investigation in Antwerp already seized over 266 kilos of heroin. By 2020, this was over 446 kilos. Customs are aware of the link between the Taliban and the production of opiates. In March 2021, a team was set up by the authorities in the port of Antwerp to analyse drug shipments exclusively, with the aim of intercepting suspicious shipments. It goes without saying that the team will closely monitor the risks related to opium and heroin. That is also their core task. In this context, the administration's investigation efforts are also strongly focused on international cooperation. These commitments will also be further strengthened in the coming years.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u99	Minister, you mention a number of things that were already in force before the evolution in Afghanistan. I should like to warn you, because now that the Taliban is in power, they will continue the trade, which is very lucrative for them. We are calling for a concrete plan to be put in place and for a little bit more effort to be made, because 24% of seizures in Europe take place through Belgium. Belgium remains one of Europe's most important driving wheels for cocaine and heroin, the opium derivatives. So let's do something about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u100	We have indeed been aware of the existence of petitions. During the discussion in committee, I indicated that, when drafting the legal texts on the annual tax on the securities account, lessons were drawn from the judgment that destroyed the original tax. It is indeed a completely new tax, which will hopefully pass the test by the Constitutional Court. The Court will examine the compatibility of the disputed aspects of the annual tax on securities accounts with the Constitution. This is a complex legal issue on which there is no point in speculating what the Constitutional Court's opinion will be. The transfer of the tax to the customer, if contractually possible, is obviously a decision of the insurance institution. The government also respects the party's freedom of contract. The intended revenue from the annual tax on securities accounts is not so high that investing in Belgium suddenly becomes totally unattractive. The low interest rates are of course an international phenomenon. The budget of the revenue from the annual tax on the securities account was done with caution, but remains by definition an estimate. However, the estimate of the proceeds of the old tax has proved rather accurate. The estimate of the yield of a new tax shall be made on the same method as that used to estimate the yield of the old tax. There is therefore no reason to believe that this time the estimate would be less accurate. I cannot, of course, predict the outcome of the requests for destruction, nor can I predict when the Constitutional Court will rule. The worst case scenario with an overall destruction ab initio implies that the refund of the paid fee can be requested. The Constitutional Court can also determine, in the event of total destruction, as happened with the old securities tax, that the destruction will only apply to the future. In the event of partial destruction, everything depends on what is just being destroyed. As long as there is no judgment of the Court, there is no reason to alter the estimated yield. There are also no new data available which would lead to a change in the estimate. The existing figures are therefore taken into account in the budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u101	Remember, ladies and gentlemen, the new government has actually removed, as it were, the tax on the effects of the Michel administration from the garbage can of the Constitutional Court. Minister Van Peteghem was given the ungrateful task of the negotiators to fix that security tax in seven haste to something that would pass the legal test more or less. Especially the rush to collect an additional tax was important, more important than a thorough preparation. Let us be honest, given the speed with which this proposal was rushed by Parliament at the time, it is difficult to speak of serious and thorough preparation. At that time we also discussed this in detail in this committee. It didn't create much trust in us at the time. The result is bad, too. Today, that tax is once again before the Constitutional Court. Let us be clear, fiscal uncertainty is something we do not need in these harsh economic times, during this revival. We will, of course, continue to monitor the occurrence of this new tax. I also note, Minister, that you will keep the estimate of about EUR 400 million: just under EUR 400 million this year, at cruising speed EUR 430 million next year. We had little confidence in this tax at the beginning of this year, and now that it is once again before the Constitutional Court, our confidence in it has, of course, diminished further.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u102	The calculations of the Court of Auditors referred to in La Libre are calculations of the budgetary impact of a bill introducing a separate tax at a rate of 15% for all temporary unemployment benefits, without time limitation. In May 2020, the government decided to reduce the corporate tax on statutory temporary unemployment benefits from 26.75 % to 15%. In this way, the government wanted to prevent low-income taxpayers who fell back on temporary unemployment for longer periods due to the high rate of company withholding tax from facing a significant reduction in their net income, although their temporary unemployment benefit was almost as high as their normal wage. The excess tax on temporary unemployment benefits would of course not be recovered until later, as a result of the establishment of the tax on persons. The reduction in the farm levy was temporary unemployment for all statutory benefits, including those of higher-income taxpayers, because the benefit institutions were unable to implement a scheme with, for example, differentiated rates in the short term. There was no change in the calculation of the tax on income. In view of the reduced rate of withholding tax on the statutory temporary unemployment benefit, a number of taxable persons will have to pay up to 2020 or recover less than if the farm tax on temporary unemployment benefits had not been reduced. As I mentioned earlier in reply to similar questions, the administration informed the taxpayers of the possible impact of the reduced corporate tax on the final tax, stressing that the lowest income would be spared from any additional contribution because they would have to pay little or no corporate tax anyway. On the website of the FPS Finance, you can find the frequently asked questions about reduced company tax on temporary unemployment benefits under the heading Private persons, under the title Temporary unemployment and taxes. On 20 April 2021, a press release was also circulated which included several simulations, such as the situation of single persons and dependent children, so that taxpayers could determine the situation applicable to them and how many taxes they would have to pay in addition to them. In addition, we also referred to the application Tax-Calc, which allows taxpayers to make a personal simulation. It is too early to give concrete figures on tax payments. This data is not yet available because too few files have yet to be submitted. My administration does not yet have an idea of the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u103	Minister, you ride around the hot potato by not mentioning amounts. I'll do that. At the beginning of the crisis, the levy was reduced to 15%, under the impetus of the socialists, to give the families some breathing space. It was decided not to make that liberating. They have therefore installed a tax time bomb, which is now in the process of exploding. This was a measure which was, by the way, warned. Journalist François Mathieu van La Libre Belgique has been committed to the dossier in recent months. In augustus kopte de krant "Temporary unemployment corona: tax supplements from 540 million to... 1.6 billion euros for the Belgian taxpayer." You have always minimized this and dismissed the messages in the media as incorrect, but in the meantime it becomes clear what the true story is. The government party Vooruit even went so far as to deny the messages of its own trade union, the ABVV. The same with the PS, which disabled the messages from the FGTB about them. I have also tabled a written question to inform Parliament of these figures so that it becomes clear what the real impact of that tax time bomb was.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u104	The abolition of the special social security contribution and the increase in the tax-free allowance to the level of living wage are measures which are now subject to further reflection. In a recent report of July 2021, the Supreme Court updated the figures from its May 2020 report at my request. Today, however, it is too early to be sure whether and to what extent both measures can be fully taken into account in the context of the fiscal reform. The budgetary impact on the regions of an increase in the tax-free sum to the level of living wage is minus 538 million euros for the Flemish Region, minus 237 million euros for the Walloon Region and minus 67 million euros for the Brussels-Capital Region. An increase in the tax-free sum by half the difference between the tax-free sum and the living wage means minus 261 million euros for the Flemish Region, minus 115 million euros for the Walloon Region and minus 33 million euros for the Brussels-Capital Region. Measures of fiscal reform should be balanced, taking into account reasonable payback effects. That is what the coalition agreement says, and my proposal will be based on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u105	Minister, the summing up of the budgetary impact went a little too quickly to be able to interpret it properly. So I will certainly read your answer again in detail in the report. The report of the Supreme Court mainly points to the possibility of increasing taxes or introducing new taxes. What we are missing in this is savings to finance the fiscal reform. So that remains an open question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u106	Mr Minister, in our country people pay taxes on rental income, except for income from their own home. The term "own house" is defined in the Special Financing Act. It stipulates that a property may also be its own property if the owner does not live there, including where that situation exists for professional or social reasons, unless the property is rented out to someone outside the owner's family. If one takes the law literally, it seems that someone who, because of his old age or needs of care, has to move to an assistance home or a residential care center, and in the meantime rents his home to someone outside the family, has to pay tax on that rental income. That is not the case, however, since the Minister of Finance who introduced this provision during the parliamentary discussion clarified that the amended text would not affect people living in a rented house for professional or social reasons, and that those people were exempt from the change. That's what the report of that meeting says. This is also confirmed by a circular letter from the AA Fisc. Now someone who moved out of need to an assistance home, and who rented out her property to cover the high costs, reports that during her contact with the tax administration she received different answers to whether her rent income was exempt. That is not surprising, as the Minister's clarifications are far from the literal wording of the law. Hence the following questions. Can you clarify in what cases the move to a residential care centre or an assistance home may be a social reason, and whether the rental income in that case is excluded from tax, even if the property does not remain within the family? Could you clarify more generally what is covered by the concept of "reasons of a social nature"? Are you aware of the different interpretations of the concept of "own home" that exist within your administration? Is there a similar disagreement in the case law? How do you plan to create more legal certainty in this respect? Will you take additional initiatives to improve legal certainty in this area and inform your administration about this? If so, what measures are you considering? Finally, could an additional clarification on this situation in the tax bill be such a measure?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u107	The property itself is the property which the taxpayer in principle involves himself. However, the legislator has provided for certain exceptions whereby a dwelling may be regarded as its own property, although the taxable person does not engage in it himself. This is the case, among other things, of a dwelling which, for social reasons such as the great distance between the place of residence and the place where the children study or work, does not involve the need for housing of family members, old age, illness, etc. If a taxable person no longer engages himself in the property, because he has been moved to an assisted home or a residential care centre by means of needs of care, then in normal circumstances this is a house that is not self-employed for social reasons. As explained in circular letter No 6 of 2015, in such a situation, despite renting, the property can still be considered to be its own home. Real estate income is exempt in that case. The circular covers this situation even as an example and is also consultable on the website Fisocnetplus. My administration is not aware of the different applications of this principle, nor of any disagreement in the case-law. In view of the above, it appears that there is no significant legal uncertainty. Nevertheless, I will examine with my administration whether additional initiatives are necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic580x.u108	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I hope that we can indeed clarify the situation. We'll reassure the person who contacted us. It is true that the text contained in the circular letter and the interpretation you are now giving differs from the literal text in the law. Adjusting that law will not be so easy, because it is about the special financing law. That's not a law we can just change. In the meantime, let us make sure that both the people and the staff of the administration are clearly aware of this interpretation.
