ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic503x.u1	Mr Secretary of State, at the end of April, the entry ban from India was tightened. The list of exceptions was therefore restricted. The entanglement applies not only to India, but also to Brazil and South Africa. Is the list today sufficiently spacious? Should it not be extended, given the situation in the neighbouring countries of Brazil Peru, Uruguay, Paraguay and Argentina, where the virus is now raging in all intensity? Let me give you another concrete example. Travel to and from Congo, for example, is not subject to the intertwined travel ban and therefore urgent family visits remain possible. Is it so certain that the South African virus is confined to South Africa and has not already extended to neighbouring countries? The same goes for India. To what extent are infections in countries such as the Congo and India sufficiently well registered and reported? At the end of April, your fellow Minister, Mr Verlinden, also mentioned that if there were any tightening, it would be best to do so at European level. She stressed that many people coming to Belgium from outside the EU do not do so directly, but through one of our neighbours. What steps will Belgium take at European level in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic503x.u2	Mrs Samyn, it is indeed important to address the issue at European level, but we also consider it important not to wait for Europe, if possible, if we get the impression that Europe is stalling. That is why I had initially taken the view that, for example, on study migration from a number of countries, such as those where variants appear, whether British, Brazilian, Indian, alpha, beta, gamma or delta, I should not have to wait for another level of policy to take the necessary steps. That is what we have done, but in order to do this properly, we need Europe. After all, many Indians try to reach Belgium via Schiphol and many South Africans reach Belgium via Charles de Gaulle in Paris. We therefore need to tackle this at European level. Fortunately, a number of steps have already been taken at European level. In Belgium, we are now trying to protect our citizens as best we can. Since March 2020 there has been a travel ban for persons with the nationality of a non-European country. I notice that this distinction is not always made in the media. Since March 2020, third-country nationals are only allowed to travel to our country for essential reasons. This measure helps to prevent the import of covid contamination. We must not forget that the rule also has a major impact. Just think of the fact that grandparents have not been able to visit their grandchildren in Belgium since March 2020. So it is not a nice measure, but it is a necessary one. This spring, our country was also confronted with worrying variations from South Africa, Brazil and India. They shall also bear the name of those countries or be designated by a Greek letter. That is why the Consultative Committee decided, at my request, to apply the precautionary principle for the protection of the population in order to announce an even stricter travel ban and therefore to prohibit essential journeys from those countries. I realize that this measure is coming hard. Even essential journeys from South Africa, Brazil and India for labour migration, family reunification or study migration make it temporarily impossible for everyone's interest. The virus has no boundaries. The different variants are present not only in other countries, but also in Belgium. A temporary stricter policy is effective to cripple large infections and to push the brakes. Should dangerous variants appear on a large scale in other countries, we will not hesitate to take the appropriate measures and to restrict travel even more from those countries. The follow-up of the worrying variants remains a priority. The analysis of the distribution of the variants is carried out by the covidex operators and the Consultation Committee will draw on the political implications. The Risk Management Group (RMG) was therefore instructed to update the list of identified countries at least weekly. Thanks to the work of the World Health Organisation, there is a fairly good overview of the covid situation in other countries. At European level, our country participates in the European discussions to adapt Council Recommendation 2020/912 on the temporary limitation of non-essential travel to the EU. In this context, we have developed the so-called emergency braking procedure: if there is a variant or a hotbed somewhere that we have to worry about, we can quickly pull the emergency brake at European level and provide for additional restrictions on the movements that may be undertaken. Pour la petite histoire, we find that there is something happening in Great Britain and I have therefore asked the RMG to get up-to-date information on the situation there. We must keep a very close eye on the situation there. It may be the Indian variant; in any case there is a strong presence. It is therefore important to identify the situation on the basis of the most recent information. If necessary, we must also be able to move towards stricter measures vis-à-vis the United Kingdom. However, we leave it to the scientific experts to give us the right figures. I can only say that I have expressed my personal concern about the situation in a number of countries. We must be able to use the emergency brake at European level as soon as possible, if possible, and at Belgian level, if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic503x.u3	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your very comprehensive answer. I had questioned Prime Minister De Croo during the Committee on European Affairs, who also advocated some caution. It is good to know that you will not wait for Europe and, if necessary, take the necessary steps yourself, no matter how difficult that may be. Travel within Europe is, as you said yourself, clearly regulated and regulated. That should certainly and even more be the case for travel from third countries. For travel in Europe, a passport is introduced, which should in principle be fraud-proof. Will this also be the case for forms submitted by third-country nationals? What will be the guarantees in this respect? That is, of course, the question. You indicate that the information is updated weekly, and I hope that this is indeed the case. In Peru and Argentina, the virus is scorching and the dramatic situation continues. I come back to European cooperation with third countries, which is certainly more than desirable in this respect. The proclamation of a European entry ban for certain countries is one thing. You quoted the examples as well. A ban of its own alone does not produce much if travelers, instead of in Brussels, for example, land in Paris or Amsterdam and without problems enter our country. I'll make a note that you're following the file very closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic503x.u4	Mrs. Kattrin Jadin is absent.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic503x.u5	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I would like to exchange views with you on the high season for illegal migration, as it seems at least once again, after a fairly quiet period, mainly due to the coronapandemic. In the winter there is also generally less illegal migration, because it is a bit colder and the sea is more uncomfortable. In summer, it is always busier on the routes of smugglers. You held consultations at European level, following the strong influx of Lampedusa, among others, a few weeks ago. In Greece it is also busy and the story in Ceuta we have all seen. Mr Secretary of State, what came out of that consultation? Italy made the emergency call and demanded consultation. I assume this has happened. When was that right? Were you there yourself, or was it through the Prime Minister? Is this a meeting of the European Council? What will Belgium do? Shall we reallocate, and if so, from where and how many people? Have any agreements been made on this? Italy called for this, because the country said it could not handle thousands of people on Lampedusa in one weekend. Did Belgium respond to that call from Italy? Which other countries will or will not go into it? I'd like a little more explanation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic503x.u6	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, illegal migration is on the move again. Three times more illegal migrants arrived in Italy between January and May than in the same period last year. Compared to 2019, there are even 13 times more. As was predictable, it was not long before the call came out for a distribution plan to distribute the migrants arriving between the European Member States, the so-called relocation. Italy itself claims to seek a Malta 2.0 agreement, which, by analogy with the agreement concluded in Valletta in September 2019, should include other EU Member States according to a distribution key. In a discussion with the Italian newspaper La Republica, European Commissioner Ylva Johansson said that the European Commission has launched talks with EU Member States to work on such a voluntary relocation system by the summer. I have a few questions in this context. Was the Belgian Government already contacted by Ylva Johansson or one of its officials? What is the Belgian Government's position on this matter? Are you going to participate in such a system or are you excluding it, as is the case with the Austrian Government, which consists of Christian Democrats and Greens? Cyprus, which is also faced with a significant degree of illegal migration, would have already requested such relocation. What is the Belgian Government's position on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic503x.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you and Mrs Jadin, who is not here, but who asked me in writing about Frontex in particular. I will answer questions from both speakers as well as Ms Jadin's question. On 10 May, the European Commissioner for Home Affairs, Ylva Johansson, called for solidarity with Italy. Member States have received a request from the Commission to relocate people who have arrived in Lampedusa in recent days. The Commission indicated that it had not yet received a specific aid proposal from the Member States. The Italian Prime Minister has placed this issue on the agenda of the next JHA Council of Ministers, to be held on 7 and 8 June. Since 2013, the Union has had a specific mission in Libya to support the authorities of that country in improving and developing the security of the country's borders. The President of the European Council, Charles Michel, made a symbolic visit to Tripoli in early April. The new Libyan government sees the European Union as an important partner. Frontex is already present in Italy and Lampedusa. Operation Themis supports Italy in border control, surveillance, search and rescue in the Central Mediterranean. The agents deployed by Frontex also assist the Italian authorities in registering incoming migrants. Reflecting the needs of the Italian authorities as well as Frontex's priorities, Operation Themis is also an important security component including the collection of intelligence and other measures to detect foreign fighters and other terrorist threats at the external borders. Italy has therefore effectively requested that this be done at the next European Council to be held on 7 and 8 June. It's waiting for that ministerial meeting that I'm looking forward to with you. A clear and predictable system at the European external borders is absolutely necessary. Not tomorrow, but today, as I stressed yesterday in plenary. You have heard me on several occasions call for structural solutions to this problem, which are preferably part of a broader European asylum and migration pact, with stronger external borders, better control at the external border, know who is coming in and who is leaving. This is part of the Pact, in which we also strive to strike a good balance between responsibility and solidarity. Member States at the external borders have clear obligations to register who arrives immediately and systematically. People who ask for asylum, but have little chance of being protected, will then find themselves in an efficient and accelerated border procedure. Others go through the normal procedure. When these Member States do their work at the external borders, the rest of Europe can also show solidarity. The countries at the external borders, such as Italy, Greece and Spain, cannot do this alone and rightly demand solidarity within Europe. If Italy wants solidarity, it is very easy for me from Belgium to say that we too want solidarity. I will look at the figures you know today, because I have already spoken about them. If one looks at the number of asylum applications in Belgium and compares this with a number of countries like Italy, then I can only confirm this when Italy asks for more solidarity. Proportionally, we certainly do our job and even more than that. There are three times more asylum applications in Belgium compared to Italy in proportional figures, i.e. on the basis of the number of inhabitants. We are certainly doing our job in this area. It is a justified call for solidarity and we share it, because there are countries that are doing much less. This must be done in an organised manner, in a European way, not improvised or panicked. I understand that, because of a sudden influx, a number of countries are asking for help suddenly and quickly, but solidarity must be built in a structured way and not in an improvised way. We are in favour of structural solutions and not of relocation exercises on an ad hoc basis. With regard to the question on Cyprus, I can only say that I did not receive a specific question from Cyprus, but that is the same. We are in favour of structural solutions. That is the only way to find a definitive solution to the uncontrolled migratory flows that unfortunately are still too many.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic503x.u8	Mr Secretary of State, I note that you have JAI Council on 7 and 8 June, so that is next week. That's gonna be interesting. I shall then ask a new question. You are in favour of structural solutions. You don't think ad hoc relocation is a structural solution. You also say that Italy is asking for relocation, but you point out that Belgium has been doing a lot more than Italy for years. That's what I like to hear. I certainly agree with that and you have our support for it. I'm sure I'll wish you luck with that JAI too. Get on with it, too. We are still fundamentally different on one point, namely the structural solution. You're still arguing for a model that I've mentally said goodbye to. That just can't work. We need to look at something else. I have seen that the Socialists in Denmark are ready, after the British. We'll get there someday. We will not have that debate here for the rest.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic503x.u9	Mr Secretary of State, you speak of solidarity. You are talking about the migrants who arrived at Lampedusa a few days ago. We know, of course, that it will not stop there. We know that solidarity is transformed into naivety, and that it is applied every time illegal migration reappears. It's not just about Lampedusa. It will cover many other migratory flows in the future. There is actually mopping with the tap open. When I hear that there are three times more asylum applications in Belgium than in Italy, I conclude that Belgium is the hardest mop across the European Union. If we mop the hardest, I wonder why we do not argue the hardest to finally turn off the crane. You say that you are in favour of structural solutions, but I see that all too often you abandon Eastern European and Central European countries when they propose clearer and more concrete measures to reduce migratory flows, including the Austrian Government. You obviously do not follow her when she says that she is not participating in such a system of relocation. I have heard you say a lot of things here today, but I have not heard you give a clear answer on these measures. Apparently, you'll be participating in the new relocation plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic503x.u10	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic503x.u11	I have missed that in your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic503x.u12	No ad hoc relocation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic503x.u13	So you won't be a part of that? Look, congratulations on that. I'm glad to hear that. This was not clear to me in your reply. I'll look forward to next week's meeting for the rest. I shall, of course, come back to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic503x.u14	Mr Secretary of State, I have another follow-up question on the relay plan, because the answer to my previous question was not clear. I would have liked to have had an overview of the approved and rejected projects and their timing in the area of asylum and migration of the relay plan. What will happen to the rejected projects?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic503x.u15	Mr Francken, as you know, the relaunch plan was submitted to the European Commission on 30 April, which is currently analysing the plan in detail. There is therefore no formal approval by the relevant European institution, here the Council, yet. The plan is assessed globally. Individual projects can only be rejected in this global framework. That global view is an important nuance to give. I have already said that far-reaching digitisation is one of the priorities in the Belgian and European relay strategy. The Department of Asylum and Migration has also been working on this essential change for some time. In the context of the Relance Plan, therefore, there is a sensitive investment in the necessary digitisation of asylum and migration procedures. The modernisation of medical invoicing is also being addressed. The total amount involved is EUR 17.7 million, excluding VAT, for this integrated digitisation project, naturally spread over the period of implementation of the project which will run until 2026.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic503x.u16	Mr Secretary of State, I certainly support the further digitisation of everything related to foreign affairs, let that be clear. We have already taken steps, but are certainly not there yet, there is still work to be done there. You also ordered an audit. This will certainly be the subject of that audit. That's okay. That's okay. I hope that the relaunch plan will be approved by the Commission, because that is indeed still pending. I had also asked about the projects that were not included. A number of projects were not taken into account. Do you have any money for that? One of those projects by the Defense Department was those two barracks for the future, at 100 million euros. Apparently, the DOD found that money. It's unbelievable how much money is going around on the Wetstraat right now. Is that true with you? You have not really answered that question, but I will come back to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic503x.u17	Mr President, Mrs Van Camp, it is certainly not my opinion that it would not be safe for these people to travel to their country of origin without testing. It's not about that. These persons come from the controlled environment of the closed centre, where they were already tested or were first quarantined. It is the refusal of the countries of origin to take someone back without a test. I therefore continue to work in my diplomatic contacts to convince these countries to accept a prior quarantine. In this committee, I have said a number of times, including to you, that I am sometimes frustrated about the existing relations with certain countries of origin that need to be improved. We must call for better readmission agreements. I also intend to travel around and negotiate readmission agreements there in the coming months. I have had a number of talks with several ambassadors over the last few months. However, I do not want you to say what is wrong. I hope you'll follow me there. It is not my opinion that it is not safe. I think it's safe, too. I also think that someone who has been in a closed center and spent some time there and whether or not they have been tested is safe enough to send back to the country of origin. That country of origin is a frustration that I have to deal with. That's the political knot I have to cut to get through. We're in the middle of these conversations. I thought it was important to stress that I too believe that it is safe and that I too, presumably like you, believe that those countries of origin should also go in the direction we are pointing out. After all, it is only natural for everyone to assume their responsibilities. Countries of origin also have their own responsibility over their own nationals.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic503x.u18	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for giving me an answer, but I am very disappointed. I'm not talking about whether it's safe for someone to travel without a vaccine or without a test. We agree on that. It's about you admitting to it and letting these people out of here without a test or without a vaccine. I don't think that's possible. If you stick to that, it would be effectively impossible to block a corona test from repatriating. Because then it applies in two directions. Then you say clearly to the person in question: if it is not safe to travel without a corona test, then it is also not safe to enter a collective centre or in our society, and you can simply take the test. That's the problem I wanted to raise. You will answer, but besides the matter. We really disagree here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic503x.u19	Mrs Van Camp, it goes without saying that I regret every incident, just like violence committed by other people. Who wouldn't regret incidents? Speaking of general impunity, as some would do, is, of course, too short. I have heard that my colleague, the Minister of Justice, has already given you a comprehensive answer to this question, which makes that clear. I am not the Minister of Justice, but I have read the answer given to you by my colleague, and I think it was a little bit more than the short turns that are sometimes taken. For police and criminal matters, you must be with my fellow ministers of the Interior and Justice. I can only talk about the residence law aspect. As you know, return policy is one of my priorities, as I have said on several occasions in this committee. There is also considerable investment in both voluntary and forced return. In these cases the forced return is important. I can't go into individual cases. When the police contact the Foreign Affairs Office when police people come into contact with a person without legal residence, the DVZ always takes the appropriate measures. That is what I can tell you in response.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic503x.u20	Mr Secretary of State, I asked this question to the Minister of Justice on your observations, and I told him that I was very disappointed by his answer. The same goes for your answer. You say you're giving an appropriate answer to that. Do you think that's appropriate? In all these cases it is still being examined whether sanctions are possible. The person in question has only been given an order to leave the territory. After the riots in New Year's Eve, the government said that it would take very severe action and that illegal immigrants involved would be expelled from the country. However, no one was removed from the territory. These are matters that we need to know every time with different questions, because you often do not have the courage to answer them in committee. The overview is very clear, it is indeed general impunity. These are people who, in the first place, have no right of residence here, then commit criminal offences and set the scene. You may find it appropriate to give these people a piece of paper that they put in their back pockets, not to be punished and released back into society, but to me it is absolutely insufficient. That is also the answer given by the Minister of Justice and you are joining it from the Vivaldi Government. That does not surprise me, but I find it very disappointing and absolutely inadequate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic503x.u21	Mr Secretary of State, a few weeks ago you had the media record that the planned asylum centre in Grote-Spouwen, a sub-municipality of Bilzen, is definitely out of business. So that piste, which you kept open for a long time, you shut down. We welcome this not only because of the total lack of communication about that asylum centre but also because its implantation and size in this sub-municipality with a rural village centre would have been completely misplaced. In the same article, you said that instead, negotiations are currently under way with the city administration of Bilzen on the creation of additional shelters in the LOI-related asylum shelters. At present, no details are available on this matter. I interviewed the mayor of Bilzen about this in the city council last Tuesday, but he couldn't give me any details either. So it's all a bit unclear. Hence my questions, Mr Secretary of State. What reason do you give for closing the real slope for the planned asylum centre in Grote-Spouwen in Bilzen? What are the reasons and criteria for the need to create additional reception places in Bilzen? Is it about asylum seekers' shelters or is it some kind of resettlement of recognised refugees, as the Mayor of Bilzen said? Can you clarify this? Can you give a chronological and substantive overview of the progress of the negotiations with the city administration? Are they finished? If not, when will that happen? Can you provide further information on the negotiations and the proposal currently before us? What kind of shelters are we talking about? How many shelters are we talking about? Which timeline do you put first?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic503x.u22	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, in this committee I have often advocated that Mrs De Block's decision should be reversed almost every month. Now the knot has been cut. The decision was made, in consultation with the owners and Fedasil. That does not mean that Bilzen would no longer receive asylum seekers, but it will happen in other ways. In an interview with Het Belangvan Limburg you indicated that there will be additional places in the local shelter. Did you discuss this alternative with the city of Bilzen? If so, when and who represented the city? What are the specific locations planned? How many additional shelters are we talking about exactly? By when will the first positions be taken? When former Minister De Block made her decision, it was clear that it was a temporary asylum centre that would be operational for up to a year. Is there also an end date this time?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic503x.u23	Mr President, I would like to thank colleagues for their questions. Over the past few months, I've had several contacts with Mayor Sauwens. This happened a few weeks ago in concrete terms about the proposal to increase the number of reception places at the Local Reception Initiative. Indeed, no agreement was found between the owners of the site and the scheduled operator, the Red Cross Flanders, on the arrangements for renting the building. In addition, we are currently mainly in need of additional individual reception places, in order to be able to accommodate people after recognition as refugees or after resettlement. We have discussed it several times in committee. The LOIs are used for recognised refugees or for persons who really need to be individually received for medical reasons in very specific circumstances. Today, the capacity to deal with recognised refugees through resettlement locally and individually is insufficient. So it's important to take people in there. By the way, the LOIs are cheaper. A certain spread is better for integration. The reason for investing in it is legion, the arguments against it escape me, in all honesty. I already wrote to all the municipal authorities in March asking for additional individual places to be opened specifically in the context of resettlement. At present, the Local Reception Initiative in Bilzen has 10 places. This will increase over the coming period. How many additional places have yet to be looked at and, of course, depends on the infrastructure available. Of course, the initiative lies with the city of Bilzen. As far as I know, there are no specific locations yet. The agreements for Local Reception Initiatives shall be drawn up for an indefinite period. We want to use places at Local Reception Initiatives because they are cheaper and high quality. In doing so, these places are very suitable to focus on integration, by being managed at local level and in the middle of our community. These places are therefore reserved for persons who have received their residence status, including persons who are to be transferred through resettlement programmes, either have a high risk of protection or are among the most vulnerable. I have already set the example in committee of someone with a very serious autism disorder, you can understand that type of case. As you know, I intend to strengthen the resettlement programme on a structural basis. This is the way to ensure that refugees arrive safely in our country, without stepping on a life-threatening boat for crossing the Mediterranean and also because it helps to ensure that countries in the region can continue to receive refugees. If you know how many refugees are being received in the region, such as Lebanon and Turkey, then you also know that this reception is important and that we must also support those countries in order to continue to provide reception in the region. In this respect, Europe also has a responsibility to show solidarity through resettlement operations in order to ensure that reception in the region is always possible and can still be done to a sufficient extent. If this is not done, pressure will be put on the whole system, which will also be to the detriment of Europe. One last point is not in my answer, but I am happy to give it to you. After all, I am an ardent user of social media. When the news was announced about the future of the asylum centre in Bilzen, which is not going to happen in the end, I saw that I was accused of giving communication to the outside world first and not to the committee. You know me by now for my parler-vrai. At the time when the committee was being prepared for my cabinet, the first remark we made when we knew the final outcome was that it had to succeed, because every time and every committee asked Mrs Ponthier and Mr Raskin a question, but just in the week in which the solution was announced, they did not. With the hand on the heart, I can say that this is exactly what happened. I had no problem telling the news on the committee. It is important to stress that, because I know how stories sometimes take a run, including on social media. After all, I would like to remain clear, with the right parler-vrai I always use and consistently use. With the hand on the heart, I can say that's how it happened. It is a pity for you, because I understand that you have followed the case well over the past few months, sincerely and in a respectful way, although it is not about the most easy dossier. It's important to dot the i. Otherwise, I feel that something personal is being charged to me, which I do not like, because this is not the way I like to work myself.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic503x.u24	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for the correction.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic503x.u25	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for the answers you can give at the moment. I understand that not all information can yet be available because a large part of the responsibility lies with the city administration of Bilzen. That makes sense when it comes to Local Reception Initiatives. The reason why I asked you the question is that the concern was expressed again in the Bilzen local community that the plans for possible additional reception places in Bilzen had to be heard again through the media. You know that this is a very sensitive dossier in our city and that it is being looked at with the necessary suspicion, especially when it seems to be said in the media once again that there will be a kind of Wiedergutmachung for the closure of the asylum centre in Grote-Spouwen, with additional places in the Local Reception Initiative as compensation. You know that citizens do not always understand the nuance between one and the other. The communication was rather unfortunate, I must tell you. That is why I asked the question in the city council, where that question naturally belongs, but also here in the committee. I would like to ask you to do so directly, so that we can hear all the details. You often express yourself as a good communicator. If there's one thing I can give you, it is that you can communicate clearly and properly. I wish you'd done the same in this one. That would have somewhat reduced the concern that arose again in Bilzen. You have confirmed that this is a resettlement programme, not additional asylum shelters. Thank you for that clarity. You didn't say how many places it was. The mayor did. It was supposed to be about four or five families. I do not know whether that will be confirmed, but we will continue to follow that with due attention, just like the previous dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic503x.u26	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your detailed reply. I am pleased that you have finally made the decision I have been asking you to take for months. You've always shielded with the family and with other actors, but I've systematically asked you to stop making that wrong decision by Mrs. De Block. You are doing that now, and I would like to thank you for that. That wrong choice by Mrs De Block was not your responsibility and also the fact that the city government of Bilzen let everything muddle and did not dare, wanted or could speak with the people in Grote-Spouwen was not your responsibility. It bothered me that I had to read the news in the paper. You may have referred to my tweet, but I take note of the explanation. Sponge on it. I'm not gonna stick around and I'm not gonna keep saying that I don't believe you and that you're gonna talk nicely. I believe you, so sponge over it and I appreciate you bringing this here. I do not want to start a discussion at all about the concrete case in Bilzen, a discussion about collective versus local care. What I do conclude is that a lot of questions remain today. I understand you can't answer all of them. I just hope that I do not have to read the answer again in the newspaper, but that is mainly the responsibility of the city administration. You know the history of the file, you have seen with all of us what it can lead to if people are not informed in a timely and concrete manner. That's like the bed where the city board of Bilzen is sick. I would like to ask you, as a man on a mission, to keep an eye on the background and to accompany the city of Bilzen so that we are informed correctly and in good time. Don't let that file rot like Mrs. De Block did at first.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic503x.u27	Mr Rigot, with regard to telework, the Fedasil agency regularly publishes instructions and guidelines on its website with their updates in order to make all employees aware of the rules applicable to the fight against the spread of coronavirus. In accordance with the Ministerial Order of 1 November 2020 and Circular 692 of 15 December 2020 on mandatory teleworking, teleworking is the rule within Fedasil for all functions that allow it. These instructions and guidelines are applicable to all employees, regardless of their place of work. Each department head and centre director was asked to determine the functions and tasks that can be performed at home and the impact on the workplace. This exercise is presented in the form of a telework plan, which each director has drawn up taking into account the realities of the field specific to his or her centre. Only employees who are unable, in whole or in part, to work at home because of the nature of their duties, are allowed to visit their place of work. Telework is therefore not organised on a voluntary basis within Fedasil. Each Director is responsible for ensuring that the internal directives and instructions on telework are applied in his or her direction, centre or service. In addition, Fedasil records monthly its total number of workers on the social security portal site as well as the number of workers who perform a function for which it is impossible to perform telework. This monthly census allows us to examine the number of workers present at their place of work and to intervene, if necessary, by recalling the rules applicable to the prevention of the spread of coronavirus, including the rules on compulsory telework. As regards the organisation of telework in centres run by the host partners, including private providers, it is up to the latter, as employers, to lay down rules on telework and to ensure that their staff are properly implemented.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic503x.u28	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for this clear answer. I have no doubt that everything is being done. It came back to me that there were misunderstandings between collaborators from different centres because, on an equal footing, some had benefited from telework and others had not. I understand the situation better through your answer because you indicate that it is the responsibility of the centre manager to determine who has or does not have the ability to do telework. I hope that this health crisis will soon be behind us and that there will be no more questions of this kind. However, it is important to have consistent and harmonized treatment in each Fedasil centre. The aim is to ensure that only those functions that require front-line service are provided. It seems obvious to me that the functions have the same descriptions in centres A, B, C or D. Therefore, the same implementation of the provisions is necessary. The Director should not be left with the autonomy to choose because I also know how uncomfortable it can be to make these decisions. They may indeed be incomprehensible to the employee. It may also be that, depending on a director, one is oriented towards a certain concept of telework or to another idea. If action is to be taken in the future, let us ensure that it is as harmonised as possible and that there is a valid plan to be implemented by the directorates for all the Fedasil reception facilities, with exceptions to be justified. This is in the interest of staff and the protection of residents of reception centres, with a view to preventing the spread of the virus.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic503x.u29	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Jadin's 55017940C is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic503x.u30	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, with my first question, I come back to the situation in the Jalhay centre, which we discussed together a few weeks ago. You have confirmed to me that Fedasil carries out monitoring visits before the opening of private structures, but also at regular rhythms when these private sites are functional. These monitoring visits are organised by the operational services, the Infrastructure Service and the Agency's prevention adviser. Mr Secretary of State, do you confirm that a visit was made before the opening of the Jalhay site? What were its conclusions? Were there any blocking points for the opening? What was the opinion of the prevention advisor? Have visits taken place since then, on the one hand, to verify that the blocking points have been corrected and, on the other hand, in accordance with monitoring cycles? If so, on what dates? Have any critical points been raised? Following the serious facts, Fedasil opened an investigation. This is done through interviews with the centre's management, staff and residents, you said. Are you aware, however, of the organisation of a visit to the infrastructure carried out in this framework in addition to the interviews? If so, what are the conclusions? If not, why not make such a visit? We are more or less a month after the facts. As a reminder, you told me then that you had not taken a closure measure but a moratorium measure, and that you had suspended the opening of other private structures by the same operator. Do you have the conclusions of the report? If not, how soon will the report be finalized? If not, do you have an interim report? Do you have sufficient guarantees to maintain the welcome on the site? Finally, would you be willing to share with me the conclusions of this report? That is my second question. As you know, I was not allowed to visit the structure at the time. You explained to me that your refusal was linked to the covid protective measures. Mr. Secretary of State, can I share the findings of the site visits? As I said to you in my previous question, these visits are essential in so far as they allow us to see the situation on the spot, a situation which can sometimes be worrying and which cannot necessarily be seen through monitoring of figures, hearings or exchanges.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic503x.u31	Mr President, Mr Rigot, as is the case with Mr. From Smet who is not present, I thank you for the important questions you asked about the Jalhay reception centre. I was informed by Fedasil that the Jalhay reception centre would be taken over by Svasta as part of an emergency procurement launched under the previous government. A visit of the operational services to Jalhay took place on 30 September 2020 in order to verify whether the specifications were in conformity with the aim of opening the site. It was found that all of the specifications were in compliance, except for personnel standards. Once the staff supervision standard was met, the site was reopened. The expert's opinion was favourable, with some adjustments that could be made after opening. Training modules were also given by Fedasil on 14 October and 9 November 2020. After the opening on 19 October 2020, several visits were made. Operational monitoring took place on 4 December 2020 and 27 April 2021. In December 2020, a medical monitoring was carried out. Monitoring by the prevention adviser was also carried out on 29 October 2020 and 22 January 2021. A quality audit was conducted in March 2021. The quality audit report of March 2021 contains binding recommendations which the operator must respond to as soon as possible. At the end of March, all infrastructure requirements were verified during the quality audit. The specifications containing the technical specifications, the award process, the pre-opening checks, the general checks, the monitoring and the audit after an opening, the support and training that Fedasil offers have been developed to ensure a basic reception quality for all residents. However, as I have already announced, a thorough evaluation of the market will be carried out. I will continue to follow her closely and make sure that I draw the right conclusions. The announced follow-up was carried out through several visits to the Jalhay centre and several interviews with its management. Interviews were also held with residents who filed complaints and conducted community services. Fedasil sent me the final report of the investigation. It asked the private operator to take a series of concrete measures to ensure the presence of staff 24/7, to make payment corrigenda in accordance with the applicable tariff for pocket money and community services, to organise more activities - especially for children - and to improve the information given to residents. Actions had already been taken by the private operator following the Fedasil audit. For example, no more community service delivery took place outside of Jalhay. As a result of Fedasil's investigation, there is no evidence that residents felt compelled to work during these visits. On the contrary, they were willing and willing to see their pocket money increased, as provided for by the law receiving section 34 by providing community services. During the March 2021 audit and other site visits, Fedasil did not make any findings regarding unhealthy housing. After difficulties at the opening, it was found that medical accompaniment now meets the requirements of the specifications. A comprehensive action plan is expected shortly by the private operator and strict follow-up will continue to be carried out by Fedasil in the coming weeks. The contract with Svasta for the Jalhay centre will end in October of this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic503x.u32	Mr Secretary of State, thank you. First of all, I congratulate Fedasil on the reaction and the actions put in place. This seems to me to go in the right direction: auditions, on-site visits. There was the upstream work and the monitoring work carried out quickly and effectively with corrective measures to be taken. I have no doubt that Fedasil has included recommendations for use in its report and that, therefore, the situation can be regarded as meeting the specifications and the quality standards of reception. I am quite reassured on this point. If, in the future, we still have to resort to private operators, it will be noted that the failure, in this case, has been a break between the reception implemented by an operator who is a partner, the Red Cross and the private operator. Here, the private operator has not had the time either, it must be emphasized, to find his marks and start with an empty structure on which he has the time to train his staff and teams, to appropriate the site and to gradually welcome the applicants for international protection; on the contrary, he ended up with a takeover of a site that was running well with the Red Cross and that it was necessary immediately to continue to run well. I am very pleased with this outcome, which, provided that the situation remains as it stands, is positive for all parties.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic503x.u33	Since Mr Aouasti has problems with connection, I would first like to give the floor to Mr Moutquin.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic503x.u34	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Secretary of State, on April 28, a drifting canoe ended up sinking. Twenty-four migrants died and only three survivors on board were recovered by the Spanish relief services off the Canary Islands. Most of the victims reportedly died of hunger and thirst after drifting for 22 days at sea. This tragedy, as you know, is not isolated. Unfortunately, these events happen very often in this region of the Mediterranean. To say it cynically enough, there is a "game" to try to find the most accessible migration route for these people. For now, it's via the Canary Islands. In 2020 alone, it is estimated that nearly 2,000 people died in the shipwrecks on the Canaries road. When migrants manage to cross, the Spanish authorities ensure that they are kept on the islands for as long as possible to facilitate their registration. We can understand this political choice, but it risks creating new dramatic and very complicated camps to manage, as is the case in Greece. Spain has also been facing the arrival of many asylum seekers in the Ceuta enclave in northern Morocco for a few days. These arrivals would be due to a relaxation of the surveillance of the coasts on the Moroccan side, Morocco probably seeking to put Spain under pressure to obtain political advantages in other cases. Mr Secretary of State, do you intend to plead for Europe to strengthen its capacity to rescue and welcome migrants in Ceuta and the Canary Islands? Are you considering solidarity with Spain and the people who are exiled there by pleading at European level for an effort to relocate? Do you consider it necessary to strengthen the reception capacity of our country in the coming months in anticipation of a possible increase in the number of asylum seekers from these countries?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic503x.u35	Colleagues, it is important to keep in mind the broader context of the situation in Ceuta. Unlike the situation in Moria and Lampedusa, what happened in the Spanish enclave is the result of a diplomatic conflict. I have not had direct contact with the Spanish authorities on the situation, but I have been informed that Spain is trying to find a diplomatic solution and hopes to return to normal quickly. For the moment, the situation is already calmer. The European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg has already ruled on the situations of migrants who have tried to climb the fence between the Spanish enclave and Morocco as a group, hoping to take advantage of the mass effect in order to escape control. In 2020, in N.D. and N.T. against Spain, the Grand Chamber of the Court held that the prohibition of collective expulsions does not benefit foreigners who attempt to enter the territory of a State illegally without making use of the legal channels of access actually and effectively available. Most of those who arrived have Moroccan nationality. An agreement exists between Spain and Morocco, which facilitates the removal of persons without an international right of protection. Spain has not made a request for European solidarity. Belgian intervention is not planned for these reasons. At the moment, our country's reception capacity is sufficient to manage current demands. As far as rescues at sea are concerned, I have always said that I am ready to examine the possibility of a European initiative. I draw two important conclusions from the situation. Firstly, I observe how migrants are instrumentalized for higher political and diplomatic purposes, resulting in human suffering. Here they literally became a toy of a conflict between two governments. It is a poignant example of migration as a means of blackmail. Secondly, the situation in Spain shows that cooperation with countries at the external borders of Europe is crucial. There are two sides to a border, with responsibilities on both sides. Countries regulate access to the territory, but also how to leave the territory. What we need to achieve is a sustainable interaction based on respectful partnerships with the third countries that surround us. That'll be the only way to avoid blackmail. In addition, investment in these countries will reduce the need for their own nationals and migrants to leave in transit. Partnerships should also create economic opportunities and prospects for young people and address the root causes of migration. Above all, we learn that if we give control over borders to a country outside the EU, we will be vulnerable to diplomatic conflicts, as unfortunately in this case. Mr Moutquin, I fully agree with your analysis. It is sad to see how much you play with unhappy lives and stories. We can only see together that this is not the way we have to deal with migrants. The fact that they were the ball of a diplomatic game between two countries is the saddest level that can exist.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic503x.u36	Mr Secretary of State, thank you. I was thinking about how honest I was going to be in my line. I have no doubt about the humanity you want to put back into migration policy. We've been working together for eight months, and I see that this subject is not easy for anyone. On the other hand, I doubt more about the humanity for which your party's political group at European level sometimes pleads, including in the Assembly of the European Parliament. You're talking about political and diplomatic blackmail. I believe that what has been concluded with Turkey is nothing more than political, economic and diplomatic blackmail between the European Union and Turkey. We can denounce it between Morocco and Spain, but then we must also rise up and realize that our policy with Turkey is exactly the same. It consists of making a big shock to Erdoğan, who is still not a singer of democracy, in exchange for the fact that he keeps migrants. I agree with you, these blackmails are really to be denounced. I'm glad you're honest, and I'm happy to hear you say it. That is also why we have asked – and it is in the government agreement – for parliamentarians to have transparent access to readmission agreements. It is to avoid making migration policy something indecent. It's not a suspicion we have. It's just a matter of transparency. My last point concerns rescues at sea. I understand that a European solution must be found, but I think you know very well, as I do, that it is not Hungary from Viktor Orbán, Poland or others that will participate in a mechanism that we should all endorse. I really encourage you to be at the forefront of a mechanism for protection and rescue in the Mediterranean, with a set of European countries. Let's move forward, and let's not wait too long!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic503x.u37	Mr Secretary of State, I would like to say a few words about Ceuta. I think it is a scratch that it is said that if one has to wheel and deal with countries at the external border, one can be blackmailed. That is always the case, we simply cannot avoid it. One is always with two, with a country of departure or transit and a receiving country. If one has a border with such a country, there is a chance that that country will abuse migrants and refugees for geopolitical reasons and to blackmail you. Whether we have an agreement or not, we can never rule that out. Never. That's the way it is. Whether or not an agreement has been reached with Turkey, Morocco, Ukraine or so, there is always the possibility that that country will open its borders completely at some point and let the people go, that it will withdraw its border guards to their customs and border posts, as Erdogan has done and as we now see in Morocco. There are, of course, very strong suspicions about this. Whether we make agreements with them or not, we can always do that. So I don't understand the debate. You are also right to refer to the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. We must continue to do so legally, because that does mean that pushbacks are possible in a certain sense. The Strasbourg case law on pushbacks is very ambiguous. In Ceuta, things are going well, so we should, above all, continue to follow that trail.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic503x.u38	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic503x.u39	Mr Secretary of State, a while ago, the federal government announced the decriminalisation of sex work through an adaptation of the Criminal Code. We very much welcome that. I have already put a few questions to your colleagues. Earlier, Minister Vandenbroucke said: "Once sex work has been removed from the criminal sphere, it will be possible to provide this profession with real social protection based on their real activities, including those that remain under the radar today and are neither employed nor self-employed. Like any working man, they're entitled to that. It is important that they can participate fully in our social security system, either as an employee or as a self-employed person. In principle, this does not require any adaptation of social security legislation. I'd like to focus on the consequences of the announced decriminalisation on your powers. Do you share the vision of Minister Vandenbroucke? The intention is to soon get a regulated, legal circuit for sex work. However, it is noted that a significant proportion of sex work is now carried out by persons without a right of residence. How will you ensure that sex work is carried out as far as possible by persons with right of residence? What will happen for the sex workers who are already in Belgium but are not legally resident? What will happen with regard to labour migration for sex workers? How, for example, will they be able to apply for a professional card or a single permit? What other possible developments do you think will arise as a result of the decriminalisation of sex work within your powers and how will you respond to them?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic503x.u40	Mr Segers, with regard to the residence permit for sex workers without Belgian nationality, I can only say that they can rely on the existing legislation. When legally staying in Belgium, they can often work legally, depending on their specific residence status. If they do not have a right of residence, they cannot work legally. Sex workers who are already in Belgium but do not have a right of residence may rely on one of the existing arrangements to apply for a right of residence, depending on their status. Our residence law provides for different possibilities to obtain a right of residence, each with its own conditions. As is already the case, sex workers without a right of residence who have been victims of trafficking in human beings can apply for protection status. The granting of admission to employment under the single permit or a professional card to sex workers is a competence of the Regions. The residence regime of the single permit, for which I am competent, will be governed by the existing rules. As a general rule, the single permit must be applied for when the worker is in the country of origin. In certain specific cases, the single permit can be applied for if you are legally resident in Belgium. That is not possible, however, if you are staying here illegally. I am convinced that the existing framework on foreign law already provides an answer to the decriminalisation of sex work for my powers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic503x.u41	I am in the middle of a round of the various ministers and you, Mr Secretary of State, about the consequences of decriminalisation. Above all, I would like to avoid that we are going to lose sight of the fact that decriminalisation is a fact. Expectations are very high and there are many consequences in several areas of competence. Think very carefully about this, because decriminalisation will bring about a dynamic that is still difficult to assess. I also find it very difficult to assess what is going to happen. There will still be a lot of work to be done in your policy area too. I will certainly come back to you on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic503x.u42	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Rigot, since January 1, 2021, the new Director General has begun his mandate as well as the new Director of Corporate Services. A new management plan must be developed for the Director Policy Support. The fact that three agents have to prepare a new management plan creates an opportunity to develop a single integrated management plan for the entire agency with objectives that are assigned to each agent. This requires a comprehensive approach to ensure that clear objectives exist for each area of responsibility of the Agency. The last time Fedasil wrote a management plan was in 2012. In recent years, the context in which the Agency carries out its mission has changed dramatically. It had to deal with two migration crises, a health crisis and had made new commitments, for example at the international level in the field of integration. In addition, the government's agreement and my policy note set out several ambitions for Fedasil. All these challenges must be considered in the management strategy and plan, but they also require the agency to take the time necessary to analyse the context, the expectations of the stakeholders and the expectations of the employees. These exercises take time, which is why I granted an extension of time to finalize the management plan. The plan must be submitted to me for approval no later than September 30, 2021. The timing should allow Fedasil to develop an integrated management plan that is the product of a collaborative journey and based on a deep analysis of external and internal challenges. When the management plan is ready, it can certainly serve as a basis for exchanges within this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic503x.u43	Mr. Secretary of State, I am pleased with your answers and the innovative methodology envisaged by the new Director General. I look forward to being able to talk to you and him in the coming months about this new management plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic503x.u44	Dear colleague, indeed, an interdepartmental conference (ICM) is very important to me. That is why I have included the item in my general policy note, although the government agreement does not mention it. I hope it is therefore clear that I want to move forward quickly. On 12 February 2021, the Consultation Committee approved the creation of the ICD on migration and integration. On that occasion, the Committee also established its terms of reference. Before this ICD can start, it is still necessary to determine its composition. The various governments of our country are represented in the ICD. It is up to each Government to decide on its own delegation and then to inform the Conciliation Committee accordingly. The ICD may meet once each government has communicated its decision. On 21 May, I made my proposal to the Council of Ministers for the federal delegation. The federal government's delegation to the ICD will consist of the following ministers and secretaries of state: the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy and Labour; the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs, European Affairs, Foreign Trade and Federal Cultural Institutions; the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Justice and the North Sea; the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, responsible for the National Lottery, Deputy to the Minister of the Interior; the Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities and Diversity, Assistant to the Minister of Mobility. In concrete terms, we are talking about Mrs Schlitz, Mr Schlitz. Van Quickenborne, Mrs Wilmès, Mr Dermagne and myself.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic503x.u45	Mr Secretary of State, I see that you have already done your job and I congratulate you on that. Is there a deadline for other Governments to do their part and so communicate to you the composition of their delegation?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic503x.u46	Mr Rigot, you are doing well to ask the question because I have failed to provide you with a final paragraph. As a matter of fact, this one answers the question you ask me. The federal government has done its job. Unfortunately, I have no influence on the functioning of other governments in this country. However, I have sent a letter to all Ministers-Presidents asking them to appoint their representatives, and I hope that they will do so quickly. So I can't give you an exact start date for the ICD. However, I share your hope that this will be done as soon as possible. If everyone in Parliament and in political parties proclaims loud and clear the importance of integration and good collaboration in the context of migration issues, I think this should go very quickly. I hope that all bodies will do their work as soon as possible. It is extremely important for all of us, and especially for the work done at the federal level, that we can move forward and work together on these issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic503x.u47	Mr Secretary of State, we will not fail to follow your call. I will not fail, in my personal capacity, to ask the bodies that are close to me and my fellow Members at other levels to try to question the other Ministers so that this can move and so that we can discuss the important issues (transmigration, economy, integration, etc.) together at the beginning of the year. which require coherence throughout the country and in any case a dynamic and innovative project.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic503x.u48	Mr. President, Mr. Moutquin, dated May 12, 2021, a resident was tested positive before his removal. As a precaution, it was decided to test all the residents of the wing concerned as well as the staff members. On 19 May, seven days later, four residents and five staff members were tested positive. The residents tested positive were immediately removed from the group and placed in the medical rooms where they are closely monitored by the medical service of the centre. Positive staff members are quarantined at home. When three additional residents were tested positive, there was no room left in the medical rooms. They have therefore been placed for two nights in individual rooms which are useful for tailor-made diets and, in particular, for orderly measures. Positive residents are placed in medical isolation, in accordance with articles 54 and 84 of the Royal Decree of 2 August 2002. It is important that all measures be taken to avoid contamination in the centres. All centres have also arranged for rooms to be set up for residents who have to be quarantined pending the outcome of their test or who have been tested positive. These rooms are well equipped. But there are cases where, due to a sudden lack of places, rooms intended to receive residents for order measures are used temporarily. Since the beginning of the pandemic, all necessary arrangements have been put in place in closed centres to ensure health security for both residents and staff. Instructions on sanitary measures available in 17 languages are available to residents, as are the necessary protective equipment (masks, gloves, disinfectant, disposable handkerchiefs, etc.).). Positive residents are closely monitored by the medical service and, if necessary, are transferred to a hospital for appropriate care. Fortunately, no resident had to be transferred to the hospital due to a covid-19 infection to date. In addition, I would like to point out that the number of people infected with covid-19 in the various centres is very small. I would therefore like to thank the staff who, under fairly complicated circumstances, are doing a remarkable job.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic503x.u49	Secretary of State, I join you in recognizing the courage of workers, as many in this country who had no choice and worked in the front line during this crisis of the Covid-19. This has also been the case for all staff around migration, including those in closed centres. Nevertheless, I would point out that there is no legal basis for placing a person in an isolation cell. My reading leads me to find a violation of Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights. Indeed, the maximum duration in these cells is 24 hours renewable twice for orderly measures, but not for medical reasons. I hope we are going out of this pandemic for good, but if we find ourselves once again in a resurgence of positive cases, I think we need to consider the possibility of isolating a positive person from outside a closed centre in order to protect it, protect other residents and protect staff elsewhere. Rightly, it shocked a lot of people for psychological reasons. I recall that an isolation cell in a closed centre consists of a mattress placed on a concrete counter, a washbasin and a toilet in the same room. It cannot be said that this is the ideal place for about forty because of covid-19. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic503x.u50	Mr President, Secretary of State, the State closed the investigation into possible malpractices in relation to humanitarian visas for Iranians. No mistake was found. You communicated that the visa treatment would be renewed. What do you learn from this completed investigation? How many applications are there at the moment? When do you expect treatment?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic503x.u51	Mr President, Mr Francken, the court has informed me that the investigation has been completed and that no criminal offences have been brought forward. That is, of course, good news. I have therefore asked my services to re-examine the applications. There are currently eight files relating to nine persons. All dossiers are currently being analysed individually and will be decided in the short term. You ask me what I learned from this. I have learned that it is always important, when rumours of unacceptable practices reach the cabinet, to give them the true meaning as soon as possible, by having the appropriate authorities investigate them. That is what has happened in this case, so that the dossiers can now be dealt with correctly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic503x.u52	Mr Secretary of State, I understand that there are eight files for nine people, that this procedure has simply resumed, as is the standard for applications for humanitarian visas, I assume, and that there will be a decision shortly. You say you've informed the court. I don't have a problem with that. You know that I and my party have asked us a few questions and ask us how in the name of God that got into a newspaper, but that is a completely different matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic503x.u53	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, last Wednesday, in the Committee on the Interior, I already questioned your colleague and party colleague, Minister Verlinden, about the illegals in Oostduinkerke. To our surprise, your colleague Verlinden denied that there is a structural problem on our Flemish coast. That surprised us, because another party colleague of yours, Governor Decaluwé of West Flanders, is convinced that this is a structural problem. In the press, Mr Decaluwé said that the services are understaffed to tackle the problem and that structural solutions are needed. According to the governor, the local police could not count on the help of the federal police on Thursday because the troops were deployed elsewhere. "And then there are currently no football matches or events," I quote the governor further, "that shows a structural problem. If something happens somewhere else now, no help is available." By the way, the governor is joined by the mayor of Koksijde, who said: "It continues to mop with the crane open. It is now the second time in two weeks that we are faced with this, on the eve of the summer season." Mr Secretary of State, all the illegals and transmigrants found, most Vietnamese, were transferred to Koksijde. The Department of Foreign Affairs decided their fate. What decision was finally made? What can you do within your powers to provide additional support to local and provincial authorities to deal with the structural problem of illegal immigrants on our Flemish coast?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic503x.u54	Mr President, to all those who referred to their written question, congratulations and congratulations to all those who asked their question. I don't want to increase the social pressure. Everyone has the right to ask his question, on an important subject, of course. In recent weeks, two large groups of transmigrants have been found on our coast: one in distress, at sea, and one in the dunes. The situation is harrowing. I don't think I need to stress this. But I do. Those people risk their lives, while human smugglers are getting outrageously rich out of this. I have been asked several questions about this, which I will answer together. The Foreign Office was on the spot on both days, as was the specialized parquet hall. In view of the situation and the profiles, it is extremely important to examine the files thoroughly for human trafficking. Those concerned were informed about the victim status. We have heard their nationalities mentioned in the media. I have already made it very clear that the dossier is therefore easy to trace as organised human trafficking. We really need to step up the fight against this. The first group consisted of 44 Vietnamese and 5 Iraqis. There were 15 women and 34 men, and a total of 2 minors among them. They were helped in distress and first cared for in Nieuwpoort. Afterwards, they were transferred to the shipping police commissioner. That's where the people were searched, heard, and their cell phones were picked out. The latter is, of course, very important in order to enable the investigation of smugglers. Afterwards they were transferred to another police commissioner, pending the decision of the Foreign Office. At the beginning it was not clear that there were also minors. This was evident from the interviews the police took. After there was certainty about the total number of minors, they were also reported to the Voogdij Department. The shipping police reported that the Voogdij service picked up the two minors. They were transferred to the specialised centres for victims. As for the other migrants of this group, 9 persons of Vietnamese nationality were transferred to a closed center, 3 in Merksplas and 6 in Caricole. 37 people, in particular 32 from Vietnam and 5 from Iraq, were ordered to leave the territory within 30 days, and were released in Zeebrugge. The second group consisted of about 80 transit migrants who were found when they were about to cross a boat to the United Kingdom. The DVZ then received 79 administrative reports, for which the following decisions were taken: 29 detentions in a closed center for return, 23 orders to leave the territory within 30 days, 2 persons were held back by the parish and transferred to prison, 5 minors were charged by the Voogdij Department and 20 persons had no decision, since they either had an order which had not yet expired or had a right of residence or an ongoing procedure. In the meantime, 13 people were released because the detention decision was not served by the police on the persons concerned in good time, not within 24 hours, which is, of course, regrettable. The stated nationalities concern not only Vietnam, but also Iraq, Syria, Egypt, Iran and Afghanistan. Due to the covid problem, the intake of new residents in the closed centres is limited. After all, all new residents are tested upon arrival and remain in quarantine until a second test. The number of quarantine sites is limited. The choice for the closed centre to where the persons concerned were transferred was made, inter alia, in function of the available quarantine sites. The opening up of places for transit migrants found last week is by no means a turning point in policy. This was an ad hoc decision concerning transit migrants with a specific profile, namely Vietnamese migrants. For these persons of this nationality there is a real possibility of identification and removal. Detention of persons with the prospect of return has been part of my policy since day one, even when it comes to transit migrants. I'm not holding anyone for two days without a return perspective. After all, the past has shown that this does not work. I will be clear about that, too. It is therefore not a question of a structural increase in the number of places available for transit migrants in closed centres. It was a decision to use as much as possible for the persons of the group found, for whom a return is feasible, on detention, of course with respect to the applicable corona rules. In this committee, I have already explained that my services, in cooperation with the Government of the Buildings, are updating and optimizing the plan to increase the capacity of the closed centres so that it complies with all aspects of the government agreement. This will be discussed further in the government's lap before I provide more information on this. About the center for transit migrants, I can be clear. There will be no closed or open center specific to transit migrants. I never said that. I have already said that an open reception centre for transit migrants creates a suction effect. That wouldn't be good. Then there will be Calais practices. That's not good. For transit migrants with a real chance of returning, we do what we do now, which is to hold them as far as possible. That's what happened in this one, too. The identification and return to Vietnam is possible. In 2019 16 people were forced to be removed and 1 returned voluntarily. In 2020 there were 2 voluntary and 2 forced returns. In 2021, there is not a single return. There is a bilateral MOU migration between Vietnam and Belgium. The DVZ works directly with the Vietnamese authorities in Hanoi through the European liaison officer on the ground for the identification of Vietnamese nationals. This is going pretty smoothly. In addition, the MOU also provides for the possibility to organise identification missions in a smooth and rapid manner. These have proved their worth in the past. Specifically for this dossier, my services have already contacted the Vietnamese authorities with a request to organise an identification mission. This question was answered positively. This will happen as soon as the covid context allows it. We are also looking at how we can make additional efforts to organise the voluntary return to Vietnam. I think it is important in this dossier that we work well with Vietnam. A large group has come from Vietnam through organized human trafficking. If we can prove that we can respond directly to this through the return, we are sending an important signal. You must understand that identification and return take some time. It is unrealistic to expect these people to have already left the territory. Moreover, removal is not legally possible before the expiry of the ten-day period of appeal against the decisions taken. This period has not yet expired. The DVZ will do everything in its power to organise the identification and return for these persons as soon as possible. The detention of a number of transit migrants has nothing to do with the work of Fedasil's outreach. The outreach workers reach transit migrants who are on the radar, people who are staying in a homeless shelter or in a park, who rely on day-care initiatives, etc. The group of transit migrants we have in front of us is completely different in nature. They are hardly known in the European database. This means that they have been able to travel to Belgium from Vietnam under the radar. There's a professional smuggling network behind this. The victims are usually very difficult to reach. The fight against trafficking in human beings is a shared battle between different services. The police have taken the necessary steps to apprehend the transit migrants, such as the reading of mobile phones, so that the court can and must do its job. As I said, the court has also made a number of arrests. Migrants were also informed about the protection status for victims of trafficking in human beings. I was also in contact with my colleagues, Minister Van Quickenborne and Minister Verlinden, about this dossier. So there's a discussion on this. For example, in the Working Party on Transmigration, both the DVZ, the public prosecutor and the police are represented to see how we can work together even better. My services are also involved in developing an action plan on trafficking in human beings. With regard to the monitoring of the order to leave the territory, the existing practice was to inform them of the possibility of voluntary return. They receive a leaflet containing the necessary information on what to do when they have been ordered to leave the territory. But that is not enough. I would therefore like to emphasize a return policy so that any person who receives an order to leave the territory can benefit from the necessary follow-up. The Council of Ministers has already approved the necessary resources for this purpose and once the new return advisers have been hired, unaddressed persons will be invited to an interview. In addition, Fedasil works specifically for migrants in transit with awareness-raising teams to meet them on the ground and convince them to return voluntarily, but only for those who have the opportunity to do so. For this target group, I want to pursue a two-pronged policy: on the one hand, to inform and guide migrants in transit on Belgian territory and on the other hand, to retain migrants in transit for whom a return to the country of origin is possible. Contacts with the French authorities are made at the level of the police and fall within the competence of my colleague the Minister of the Interior. Finally, I have also received questions about the support of local and provincial authorities. As I said, DVZ employees can come on the scene to support the police in the administrative process, which in this case also happened. Fedasil's outreach staff can also provide added value, not specifically in this file, but for municipalities where many transit migrants reside on the territory. I think it is very important to keep in touch with the administrations that come into contact with transit migrants and to stay informed about the situation locally. I've had a lot of conversations with the governor and some mayors in the last few days. It is important to continue to do so, because it is the only way to address the issue as well as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic503x.u55	Mr Secretary of State, I am very disappointed with your reply. In view of the announcements in the press, we thought you had at last changed your mind about the problem. You have also announced that you would release capacity in the closed centers, quod non. You will come back to that today and say that it is not the intention at all to release capacity there. You're just answering as if it's the most normal thing in the world that 80 percent was released. Some of them had also been ordered to leave the territory, but you are not acting against it. Those are people who keep trying. You also release them in West Flanders, including Zeebrugge, where the nuisance remains. That is not an approach to the problem. Your approach disturbs me greatly: you let it go and perhaps send a coach to see if they would like to leave today, as they have not yet done so in the past few years (...) I thought that you had finally changed your mind and that you would apply the approach of the past again by actually acting and locking people up to give a clear signal and see if those people could be returned, but none of it is true. You announce that today as the most normal thing in the world. You read from your paper that 80 % will be released again and that you do nothing with it. It can't be.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic503x.u56	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your clear answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic503x.u57	Mr Secretary of State, thank you. For my part, my questions concerned the angle of victim support and care. I use the term "victims", because beyond their will to cross the Channel to join England, they are men and women who are victims of a number of things: victims of the need to leave their country (they often have no other choice); victims of human traffickers; victims of Europe, which does not yet offer a globalised and generalized policy with genuine legalised and organised access to European territory. Another aspect has just been mentioned by Mrs Van Camp, namely the problem of traffickers. I want to say that you don't have to put everyone in the same basket. The distinction must be made in actions. There are the actions for the victims, for which we must undoubtedly strengthen European cooperation with France and England. But we also need to discuss the issue at European level, more generally, for a common policy. The victim approach also involves the ICD and the need to have a common vision with federated entities on transmigration issues, in particular. Behind it, there are always human beings in difficulty. They remain no matter what happens always and above all human beings. You mentioned the case of two people who were not immediately identified as minors. We need to improve that. We must be able to identify a minor immediately in order to avoid the trauma of a care where he is assimilated to a major. In case of doubt, if the person claims to be a minor, he or she must be considered to be a minor until proven otherwise. Attention should be paid to the victims. And attention should be paid to traffickers. We need a firm policy with regard to those smugglers, those traffickers who take advantage of human misery, to put their pockets full of them. There is no need for discussion: there is a need for firmness and clear messages about them. Mr Secretary of State, we must move forward with all the means available, with your colleague from the Interior, but also with your colleagues at European level and at the level of the federated entities.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic503x.u58	Mr Secretary of State, we are very upset about this answer. The Flemish interest wishes to warn the government not to continue to underestimate the problem. This is a phenomenon which, under unchanged policies, threatens to increase only for four reasons. Firstly, the answer to a previous question from the Flemish Interest showed that Belgium was not involved in the agreement between France and Great Britain to deal with the illegal crossing. This means that the problem is moving more and more to our coasts. Secondly, our police services are structurally undermanned. This contrasts sharply with the doubling of patrols on the French coastline. This structural understaff is also evident from the release of a large number of illegal immigrants in this specific dossier, as your reply shows. Thirdly, there is the failing expulsion policy. As we all know, illegal immigrants are just getting their hands on an A4 with the friendly request to leave the country anyway. In this specific dossier, too, your answer shows that only a very small minority of the illegals arrested will ever be effectively expelled from the country. To use the words of the mayor of Koksijde: it keeps mopping with the crane open on our Flemish coast.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic503x.u59	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Francken's 55017971C was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic503x.u60	Mr Secretary of State, on 11 May 2021 I was present at the action at the Beguinage Church of the undocumented people to celebrate the tenth anniversary of the Istanbul Convention. For the undocumented, it was a sour cake. They had also put white loaf around the cake, to reflect the bitter taste of the cake. In Belgium, protection against violence in practice does not apply to undocumented women. Belgium supports the Convention in words, but is selective when it comes to the protection of undocumented women. The result is, of course, that unsubs are heartless in their drives towards the defenseless victims. The most vulnerable people in our society have no protection whatsoever. Most people do not dare to complain because they run the risk of entering or being expelled from prison in a closed institution. Sometimes nothing is done with their complaint, as with Cristianny Fernandes de Souza, died on 9 May 2021 from the consequences of years of sexual abuse by her employer. Seven months before her death, she had lodged a complaint against him, which is already a courageous act and which is not easy. To date, the unsub is still at large, although he is known to the police. The man in question would have raped several women already. However, they do not dare to complain because they are afraid of reprisals and to be expelled. That is a real problem. Many of them are effectively at risk of being expelled or imprisoned in the event of a complaint. Moreover, in our country, the 2009 European directive on the protection of sans paper has still not been incorporated into Belgian legislation, in particular the part to protect sans paper. Worse still, when we discussed the resolution on violence against women, which was adopted, the section on sans paper, i.e. the most vulnerable people in our society, was removed from the text. On the action of 11 May 2021, your fellow Secretary of State Schlitz was also present. She then encouraged the female sans paper to file a complaint. She stated that you would examine together how you would protect those involved. Mr Secretary of State, will you take a legal initiative to better protect the rights of sans paper, starting with the full adoption of the 2009 European directive on the protection of sans paper? Can you make your promise about protecting women's sans papers? What exactly did you promise? Is there a judgment or a circular on this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic503x.u61	Mrs Vindevoghel, I too think that the protection of women from violence is very important. A woman must therefore always be able to lodge a complaint with the police if she becomes a victim of violence. A woman without legal residence should not be afraid because of her residence status to report sexual assault to the police Persons without legal residence who complain to the police as victims may receive an order to leave the territory, but DVZ will not in such cases instruct the police to hold on to the person concerned with a view to forced removal in order to execute the order. So I can give you that guarantee. I never promised that people wouldn't receive a warrant because DVZ wouldn't be contacted by the police in such a situation. This would be different from the legal obligations and powers of the police and DVZ. Only the guarantee I gave you is the guarantee I gave you. I have already explained this practice several times to organisations in the field so that they can spread the message. Women should not be afraid to go to the police if they are victims of violence. You also asked me about possible legal initiatives concerning the 2009 European directive on the protection of sans paper. I suspect that you are referring here, as in your other question, to the sanctioning directive which protects workers with illegal residence. In this respect, I would like to refer to my answer to a previous question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic503x.u62	Mr. Secretary of State, is there anything on paper about your commitment? That is precisely the main concern of the women concerned. They already experienced that, after they went to the police, they ended up in a closed center and did not receive protection. I don't see anything on paper that shows that the people involved are protected. By the way, there was a union action at Sarah Schlitz's cabinet. I listened to women's testimonies there, including a woman who had helped the Fernandes case. That woman told me that 20 women had told her their story about sexual abuse. This is a considerable problem, Mr Secretary of State. Mr Secretary of State, I'm angry. Yesterday, all the political parties in the plenary said with a lot of pooha that it is not possible for women to be denied protection. Well, a woman is a woman. For me, every woman, whether she has papers or not, needs protection. Women without papers must be protected as much as women with papers. We will continue to support the organisations that are committed to this. The ACV also works on better protection for those women. It calls for women to be protected if they complain. That is not yet happening, and the Istanbul Convention also requires protection.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic503x.u63	"Mr. Secretary of State, in a recent L.R. decision. against Germany, the Court of Justice of the European Union has established that an application for asylum cannot be considered inadmissible by a Member State of the Union on the ground that an earlier application was lodged and rejected in Norway, a country associated with the Dublin III Regulation without being a member of the European Union. The Court also considers that an application made in Norway cannot be regarded as an earlier application.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic503x.u64	Thank you in advance for your answers."
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic503x.u65	Mr Rigot, this is indeed a technical question. On 20 May 2021, the Court of Justice of the European Union delivered its judgment in the L.R. case. against Bundesrepublik Deutschland. I was well aware of that judgment. The question before the Court was whether an application for international protection could be considered later and declared inadmissible as such if the earlier application had been rejected by a third State, in this case Norway. The Court replied negatively to the question raised and held that European Union law did not permit a decision on the inadmissibility of a subsequent application when it was the third State, whatever it was, which made the earlier final decision. This judgment is not directly relevant to our country. The manner in which applications for international protection are examined in Belgium does not conflict with this judgment. An application for protection rejected by a third State prior to an application for international protection in Belgium is not considered as a final decision. If the person then submits an application for international protection in Belgium, that application is therefore not qualified as a subsequent application. The possibility of applying the concepts of safe third countries and first countries of asylum will of course be examined by the CGRA. The Office for Foreigners and CGRA do not have structured data on applications for protection rejected by Member States and associated States prior to an application for protection in Belgium. As far as the Dublin III regulation is concerned, I can tell you that since 1 January 2021 the United Kingdom has been considered a third country. The Dublin III Regulation is therefore no longer applicable in relation to that country.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic503x.u66	Mr Secretary of State, thank you. Your answer was very clear and I have nothing to add.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic503x.u67	Mr Secretary of State, my question is combined with two other questions, but the content of my question is different, so I hope that I will get an answer to my questions as well. With your permission, I will therefore put my question in its entirety. My question is about the German tolerance system for people without legal residence. In our Committee on Home Affairs, we have often talked about people without legal residence. That's a diverse group of people. Some people have gone through the asylum procedure, but are not eligible for asylum or are here for any other reason. These people cannot always go back to their country of origin, sometimes because the country of origin refuses to take back, or sometimes there are other reasons for not returning. The reality is that these people live in our country, are present and are often dependent on the informal economy. In Germany, since 1 January 2020, there has been a system of Duldung, a system of tolerance, which allows these people, provided they meet a number of conditions, to receive training or to be able to work. In this way, there is some sort of tolerance policy for their situation without legal residence. The advantage of that system is that these people are no longer dependent on the informal economy to provide their livelihoods. In the informal economy there is a chance of exploitation, yet a real risk. When these people end up in a black economy, there is no economic return to the state treasury in the form of taxes and social contributions. Two years ago, the Brussels Mediation Service Actiris also planned to examine the possibility of setting up a system in Belgium which would enable people who do not have residence papers to be temporarily employed in the labour market, especially in disadvantaged professions, or to receive training. That proposal was very critical and was actually immediately fired off. However, it is interesting to look at it more closely, because there are probably legal or operational difficulties, but in itself the idea may be worth looking at. Foreign examples show that such tolerance policies can have advantages. The idea of Actiris also received support from the board of directors, in which employers and trade unions are represented. Mr Secretary of State, do you think that a system such as the German system is also possible in Belgium? What legal possibilities are there then? What is your view on the idea of allowing people without a right of residence, who for certain reasons cannot return to their country in the short term, to work in a bottleneck profession or in training?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic503x.u68	Mr Secretary of State, the undocumented people who, in the hope of regularisation, occupied the Brussels Begijnhof Church and premises of the Free University of Brussels and the Université Libre de Bruxelles have begun a hunger strike. These occupying forces, united under the name Union des Sans-Papiers pour la Régularisation, have been demanding clear and permanent criteria for regularisation for more than 100 days. This situation is not ideal, with 100 people or more who stay packed and spend cold nights there. They not only disrupt public order, they also endanger public health. Mr Secretary of State, how many people are we talking about? In the meantime, how many people applied for asylum or a multiple application for asylum? What nationality are the persons concerned? This situation has been dragging on for several months now. In the meantime, what concrete steps have you taken to tackle this problem? Are you going to take action to repatriate these persons without legal residence? What's your plan of action?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic503x.u69	Mr Secretary of State, since Monday 24 May many sans papers have been on hunger strike in the Beguinage Church and on the campuses of VUB and ULB. To get past their legal impasse, they are willing to risk their health. These people have been working here for years. For years they have contributed to taxes and social security. They contribute to community life and the economy. There are people who have helped to build the European Parliament or other public buildings, with risks to their health, that while they fear being caught, poorly paid and abused. You've been coming up with the same story since the beginning of their actions. There will be no collective regularisation or clear criteria. They have to file their files, despite the fact that they have already filed their files, and often several times. Those who have not yet submitted a dossier fear that there is arbitrariness in the assessment, as there are no clear criteria on which a dossier is assessed. We do not hear from you about the arbitrary assessment or the unreasonable barriers that have been created, or about the financial barriers, because it costs people a lot of money. In doing so, you are firmly defending the status quo which has disastrous consequences and denying the problem and that something must be done about it. Mr Secretary of State, when has anyone contributed enough to our society for you to enjoy the protection of our rights? In the media there is talk of collective regularization, but that is not the demand of those people. They demand clear criteria and an independent organisation that judges this. We don't understand why you don't sit around the table. It's about an organization with a lot of people. I hope you will listen to their demands.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic503x.u70	Mrs Platteau, your question is of a different nature. I'll answer them separately. I shall begin with the questions put by Mrs Safai and Mrs Vindevoghel. The hunger strike of sans-papiers in the Beguinage Church and in the premises of the VUB and the ULB in Brussels disturbs me. Yeah, I'm worried. I very much regret that many of them have already taken the decision almost two weeks ago to proceed to a hunger strike. I therefore call once again on everyone to stop the hunger strike. I, and no doubt everyone with me, am deeply concerned about the medical impact of such actions in the short and long term. I am, of course, in contact with various local actors, the rectors involved and the church factory concerned, but I do not shy away from the dialogue with those involved. I consulted people without legal residence at various times, in April with the Union des sans-papiers pour la régularisation, in my cabinet. Also this week I went on the spot at the VUB to talk to the hunger strikers and several researchers who have published an open letter. I would like to explain my policy, including in person, and also to those involved. But I am very clear about that. I continue to ask the party to engage in talks, to keep the dialogue open, to avoid people moving to actions that lead to lasting consequences. Then we are talking about physical burdens that people will carry with them all their lives. But I will not negotiate the demands of those involved. This was not the case during the occupation of the sites, and that does not change because of the hunger strike. Regularisation policy and the response to, among other things, hunger strikers' demand for clear regularisation criteria to be included in the law cannot be separated from the general migration policy. Many legal migration channels already exist, with clear conditions for people to use. If one proves to meet the conditions, one is entitled to stay. This is the case for study migration, labour migration and so on. I am fully committed to this policy period to strengthening the correct legal channels of migration by making procedures more transparent, faster and more efficient. However, the humanitarian regularisation procedure is and will remain an exception procedure which is a favour and which exists in order to derogate from the existing rules in individual and exceptional humanitarian situations by granting a residence document, although the conditions of an existing legal migration channel or other residence procedure, such as the asylum application, are not met. It cannot therefore be the intention to provide for a new migration channel by providing objective criteria. To this end, the current procedures of legal migration exist. So, Mrs Vindevoghel, they do not exist to assess whether or not someone would have contributed or contributed enough to society to obtain a residence permit because of irregular employment. Nor can it be the intention to give the message to persons without legal residence that they are eligible for regularisation if they are illegally resident in our country for x-number of years. This would undermine the current migration policy. In fact, how cynical it would be to say to people that they must have worked in illegality for ten years first, milked out and squeezed out by an employer and then carried out a regularization. One does not do that on the basis of what someone has taught. This is done on the basis of vulnerability. It's not because one physically has the ability to contribute more than another, that this is a reason to proceed to regularization. In future, however, I would like to ensure that the humanitarian regularisation procedure remains an exception procedure by creating a right of residence for certain categories which can now only apply to humanitarian regularisation, as stated in the government agreement, stateless persons. Moreover, I have confirmed since my arrival that the procedures, including the handling of requests for humanitarian regularisation, are indeed too long. In order to ensure that applications for residence are processed more quickly, many additional staff are recruited from the various services, including the DVZ, this year. Mrs Safai, I cannot inform you which of the hunger strikers submitted an asylum question or what nationality they have. I don't know. I don't need to know, because a hunger strike doesn't make any difference. If they submit an application for residence, their application will be dealt with in the same way as the other files. Finally, Mrs Vindevoghel. You say that in my public discourse I would attach too much importance to the requirement of a few for collective regularization. I can only observe that this question is asked regularly. Moreover, this is a semantic discussion. The definition of the clear, individual regularisation criteria can also be seen as a collective regularisation, as was the case in the 1999-2000 campaigns and in the 2009 campaign. Besides, I don't like hearing that I don't talk to people. I've done that several times. Mrs Vindevoghel, I have been on the ground in Brussels long enough since I was born to be in contact with people who are in that situation. I dare say: longer than the average person in this committee and perhaps longer than the average member of the PVDA. So I don't need to hear that I'm not in touch or that I don't know what's alive. I know better than you'd think. I may be better at French than you, Mrs. Vindevoghel. Only one solution, regularisation , is the requirement that is expressed. I have to be clear in that because I want to avoid casualties. I hope that everyone together will be able to show that clarity. There are individual regularisations that can and may be applied for. That's considered individually. However, creating another millimeter of space that would allow people to think that a hunger strike would lead to a solution is not the answer, unless one wants to ensure that people eventually die or lose a kidney. I owe that clarity to those people. Mrs Platteau, the German tolerance regime or Duldung is a temporary postponement of return to the country of origin and is not a right of residence or residence status. This temporary postponement is usually granted or extended for six months or for a shorter period. The group of people who can claim Duldung is varied. There are also different types of Duldung in Germany and the reasons for their granting vary. I would like to mention some of them: it is impossible to return to the country of origin for lack of travel documents, for medical reasons, for example through pregnancy or because there is no medical treatment available in the country of origin, because there is a real threat to the person concerned of torture or death in the country of origin, because the person concerned wishes to complete the school year, etc. According to the available information, there would be about 163.000 Patiences in Germany. Of those whose reasons are known to the Duldung, the vast majority have a lack of travel documents for the return to the origins of the Duldung. In Belgium, several of the categories covered by the German Duldung are entitled to a right of residence on the basis of different procedures and not to a temporary delay of departure, such as with the German Duldung. This is the case, for example, with subsidiary protection for persons demonstrating a risk of torture in the country of origin, medical regularisation if the necessary treatment is not accessible or available in the country of origin, the postponement of the order to leave the territory in case of pregnancy or to finish the school year. In these cases, it seems to me that our own system is better than merely allowing what is temporarily allowed in Germany. I have heard a lot of things, both about Germany and Portugal and Spain. I find very often that people do not have the right information or communicate about the approach abroad and in Belgium. It is therefore also a good thing that you ask the question because it gives me the opportunity to point out that what is seen as a temporary thing in Belgium is regulated in a much better way. What you are also proposing in the Belgian system implies that a temporary residence permit is given to persons without legal residence on the basis of studies or employment in a bottleneck profession, i.e. in particular regularisation on the basis of the criterion of work or studies. Each application for regularisation shall be assessed individually on the basis of the whole set of elements in the file. Other persons who cannot return for certain reasons should have their own residence procedures, such as recognised stateless persons. That's what the coalition agreement says. In view of the above, however, I am not convinced that the German system can be copied into Belgium's migration policy. I can only repeat my question to stop the hunger strike. I am always open to dialogue and there are a lot of legitimate debates on migration policy, but this is not happening in this way, not by putting our own health at risk, not by trying to get through a number of demands through a hunger strike. Hopefully everyone can support this call together, because it will be necessary if we want to avoid dramas.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic503x.u71	Mrs. Platteau told us that her Internet has been interrupted. She cannot replicate, but she will be able to read your answer in the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic503x.u72	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. I hear you do not accept that you are being blackmailed by a hunger strike, which is already very good. However, I have not heard how many people are there and what their nationality is. You may end that hunger strike, that blackmail, as our country is humane enough to just give those people the chance to make their lives meaningful. However, for certain people who end up in illegal residence, the answer is clear: no, you cannot stay here. Since these people are there, I suggest that you take a look at what nationality they are. If people need to be sent back, that must also be done. This way you can avoid being blackmailed in the future by people who endanger their own health. It is also the only way you can make your own signal clear. Otherwise, those people will stay there. People who are legally resident here have already given us the opportunity to stay here, while people who are illegal there need to know that somehow their stay must end.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic503x.u73	Mr Secretary of State, I have been a trade union delegate for 20 years, I have always stood up for the workers and I have always fought very strongly against social dumping. I still do, by the way. The fact that thousands of people are left in illegality and are not seeking a solution for them means, in concrete terms, that these people are used by employers, to organize social dumping and to play the workers against each other. That is the reality. I've heard hundreds of stories from people who have to work in cleaning for two or three euros. These are people who have been living here for 20 years, whose children were born here. We must find a solution to this. You mentioned dialogue and I have experience of it, because as a trade union representative I had to engage constantly in dialogue with the employer. So while you are talking about dialogue, you are at the same time not prepared to talk about their proposals and demands. That's not dialogue, that's embarrassing people. Dialogue means that you, together with them, are looking at the demands to see what can be talked about. However, you are putting these people at risk. You are not offering the thousands of people who now have to work illegally a perspective. These people are being played out against each other and are faced with incredibly poor working conditions. We know that's what killed people. I'm not in favour of a hunger strike either, but these people are out. This is the ultimate cure for them. I sincerely hope that there will be a solution for these thousands of people.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic503x.u74	Mr President, I have received a bundle of demands from the Union des sans-papiers. Among other things, it said that a solution had to be found for the stateless. We will. That's what the coalition agreement says. There was also a need to find a solution for parents of children who have a residence status here. I'll give you the typical example of a girl who risks a genital mutilation, gets a residence permit here, and then the parents have to apply for regularization. The question was to ensure that this is included in the criteria for those categories. I'm doing more than that, because I don't want these people to have to file a 9a application. That's not what regularization is for. They should be able to obtain a residence permit here automatically. I am talking about the small group of stateless persons who have nowhere in the world a country that welcomes them and to which they belong, and the group of parents whose children are recognised here. I come to those who wait years for an answer. Here too, I have made it very clear that we are investing in additional staff and treating them more quickly. That's what we're doing. That too is one of the requirements that we are taking into account. When exploited economically, it is always possible to file complaints. But what does it mean, Mrs Vindevoghel, and that is the essence of the matter? You yourself say that these are people who have been staying here for 20 years. Twenty years ago they were given an order to leave the territory and twenty, fifteen or ten years ago they did not go into it. That is the reality. Today, we are trying to work towards a solution in the country of origin, including through voluntary return routes, to help those people in their country of origin to build a sustainable future. After all, we know that many of these people have left for a certain reason and want to help them to build a sustainable future in their country of origin. But no, it is not because one has ever been given an order to leave the territory and then stays here for another ten years, that the reason why one has been economically exploited by this illegal situation must lead the Belgian government to regularisation. No, that's really not what we need to do. That is merely to facilitate illegal residence, by strengthening the vulnerability of illegal residents. That's the last thing I want to do.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic503x.u75	Mr Secretary of State, I would just like to add that the answer is not the reality of those involved and that the problem is very serious.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic503x.u76	Mrs. Platteau, I see you're reconnected. Have you heard the answer from the Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic503x.u77	Mr President, unfortunately I have not heard from the answer because of Internet problems. So I shall read it in the report. So I won't replicate. After all, it is difficult for me to respond to an answer that I have unfortunately not heard.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic503x.u78	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Jadin's 55018193C has been converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic503x.u79	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I will not come back very long on the government agreement. You know him even better than we do. He claims that minors cannot be detained in a closed centre. You have confirmed this on several occasions in the media and in our committee. However, like many others, I was surprised to learn that the Belgian State was going to take action in the Council of State, which deals specifically with the conditions for the confinement of children in the 127bis centre, by defending the royal decree which organizes the confinement of children. I confess I don't understand this double speech. It has been demonstrated that detention has a profound and lasting impact on the physical and mental health and development of children. Mr Secretary of State, the government has obviously taken the right decision by deciding to stop this practice condemned by many international bodies for a long time. Can you explain to me this decision to go to the Council of State to, in a way, extend this royal decree which allows the confinement of children? Is it correct that, when contacted by associations, you explained to them that there was no contradiction between respect for the government agreement and the continuation of this procedure? If so, can you enlighten me so I can understand? Will you be working on a bill that permanently stops the detention of minor children on migration-related grounds?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic503x.u80	The government agreement states that the government would no longer lock up children in closed centres. However, there is now the cancellation procedure against the destruction by the Council of State of the royal decree that allowed the imprisonment of children at the time. There is quite a stir about this, including in civil society. There are a lot of questions on the subject. Mr Secretary of State, can you confirm that you will continue the procedure in question? What is the meaning of that? Do you also see the contradiction between the government agreement and the cancellation procedure?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic503x.u81	Mr De Smet is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic503x.u82	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me first of all to be clear again and to use almost word by word the terms used by Mr Rigot. Children are not and will not be detained in the closed centre. The government agreement is clear on this. Neither I nor the other partners of the government intend to deviate from this agreement regardless of the outcome of the action for annulment before the Council of State against the Royal Decree of 22 July 2018 on the modalities of detention of families with minor children in family homes in closed centre 127bis. This procedure of annulment before the Council of State is currently in its final stage. On 1 October 2020, the Council of State already delivered a final judgment on the first two pleas, on the one hand, rejecting the main complaint which had led to the suspension of the royal decree and, on the other hand, annulling certain provisions of that decree. The Council of State must now decide on the last two grounds for seeking annulment. At this stage of the procedure, it is not possible for the Belgian State, which is a counterparty, to stop the procedure. Only if the Royal Decree of 22 July 2018 was repealed can the proceedings before the Council of State be terminated. However, such a withdrawal would have undesirable consequences for the Belgian State, since the repeal of the Royal Decree has retroactive effect, which means that the detention of families with minor children in the past would be made unlawful. It is also important to stress that the judgment of 1 October made the detention of families with minors not only politically undesirable today, but also legally impossible. The judgment no longer fully applies the Royal Decree governing detention and should be amended to allow detention. I can confirm that there is no intention to amend the royal decree to that effect. We are now only waiting for the second part of the judgment in order to complete the procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic503x.u83	Mr Secretary of State, as much as I can understand the technical approaches you are talking about, the rest is important, as we all heard a few months ago. In Belgium, more than 48,000 people, including me, have committed themselves, with 325 associations and with the government, to the prohibition of the detention of children, joining the movement "We do not lock up a child. Point." Point, not three small points. Today, I hear the legal motivation, but then we have to press a big blow on the accelerator, right now, to translate and translate into a text this desire not to lock children in. Without that, this decision will only be a commitment of the government. This is already good, but it has a fixed duration until it is translated into a text. We need legislation that confirms this government's will, as quickly as possible, to ensure that for an indefinite period of time, and I hope that never again will a child be placed in a closed centre. Thank you for acting as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic503x.u84	Mr Secretary of State, I agree with what the previous speaker said. Every child must be equal. Many organisations have agreed to the requirement that no child should still be locked up and, together with the previous speaker, I urge that this motto be transposed into law.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic503x.u85	The figures are clear: immigration across the central Mediterranean route is once again in the elevator, and before the actual migration season has started. It is striking that Tunisia's importance has increased. In the meantime, almost a third of all ships heading for Europe would land in that North African country. Last weekend, both the Italian Minister for the Interior and the EU Commissioner Ylva Johansson visited Tunisia. On her return, Mrs Johansson praised the great flexibility of the Tunisian Government with regard to the readmission of illegal immigrants. On Monday, the German newspaper Die Welt stated that it appears that Italy and the EU on the one hand and Tunisia on the other are in agreement on the basis of an agreement. According to the same source, the formula is summarised as follows: Tunisia prevents migrants from moving to Europe, while those who would set foot on European soil can be sent back quickly and unbureaucratically. In return, the North African country could count on generous financial assistance. Can you confirm that message from Die Welt? Which illegal migrants would be eligible to be returned? Does the agreement also apply to Tunisians who have been illegally resident in Europe for a long time? What does the financial aid provided to Tunisia mean in concrete terms? Were there any commitments regarding the opening of legal migration channels? Have any other commitments been made, such as visa facilitations? If so, which one?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic503x.u86	Thank you, Mr Van Langenhove, for your question. I can confirm that, following a similar visit to Tunisia in August 2020, the European Commissioner for the Interior, Ylva Johansson, and the Italian Minister for the Interior, Luciana Lamorgese, visited Tunisia together again. The focus was on migration issues. The visit was organised against the background of the increasing number of arrivals in Italy from Tunisia. The purpose of the visit was to make a number of diplomatic arrangements and exchange information. As such, no formal agreement was reached. From a Belgian perspective, we can be satisfied with the European approach to the dossier. In this way, Member States are less able to play themselves bilaterally against each other. I have already indicated here in committee that we are negotiating separately with the countries of origin 27 times. The European approach can certainly help us to put a clearer stamp on these negotiations. Moreover, there is the European message that migration management should not be left to criminal organisations. There is a mutual understanding on both sides of the Mediterranean that the business model of smugglers must be destroyed. It is encouraging that Tunisia is prepared to engage in this fight with the European Union. The European Commission has made it clear that the European Union is and remains a strategic partner of Tunisia, but that more cooperation on migration management is expected. This question has not yet been linked to visa or other measures, but this can of course change in the future. However, there was talk of a common approach to the root causes of irregular migration by promoting economic development, tailor-made projects and developing legal migration channels to the European Union. As I have already mentioned here in committee on visa sanctions, the European Commission is drawing up lists and is initially trying to talk diplomatically with countries. Where this is not possible, steps must be taken by the summer of 2021, as the European Commission itself has communicated, with the countries with which we are most difficult to cooperate at European level. The positive cooperation which the European Union is trying to develop is being developed on the basis of existing cooperation between the European Union and Tunisia. I look forward, along with you, to the operationalization of the appointments made during the visit. It is awaiting more information on this, but I am glad that Europe is finally aware that, when it is negotiating with countries of origin, it is doing the best it can from Europe and not individually, because then it is being played apart, which leads to the consequences that we have known today and actually for decades.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic503x.u87	Mr Secretary of State, you welcome the European approach, but it is rather disappointing that no formal agreement has yet been reached. When that agreement is concluded, I hope that it will not be a blackmail deal, but a deal that can help both partners. You are also talking about destroying the business model of the smugglers. In this context, I would like to refer to my question yesterday, which was answered by my group and many Flemings. If you want to destroy the human smugglers' business model, then you really need to stop all possible illegal migration channels. As long as that does not happen, the smugglers have a business model and will continue to make a lot of money at the expense of many vulnerable people. The readmission agreements can do a great deal to remedy that. In reply to another question, you just said that in the coming months you have a lot of agreements to conclude such readmission agreements. I wish you every success in this process, because it is a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic503x.u88	Mr Secretary of State, last week you explained your plans, including on the policy of return, as you call it. Although I fear that this approach will not bear much fruit, I hope of course the opposite. Apart from that, of course, the fact that, in any case, forced return will be necessary and that additional investment will have to be made. Both the government agreement and the presentation of your policy paper stated that an accelerated implementation of the famous Master Plan on Closed Return Centres would be carried out. About six months ago, however, Mathieu Michel, the Secretary of State for the Buildings, stated that the two new return centres announced by you will not be there until the end of this term of office. When I questioned you about this in the Chamber, you said that you had the ambition to build the centres in question more quickly and that we could count on you working hard on it in the coming months. In the meantime, we are a few months further on. That is why I would like to receive an answer to the following questions. What initiatives have you taken in the meantime to speed up the construction of the two closed return centres? What specific decisions have already been taken on this matter? Can you guarantee us that the previously promised expansion of capacity in these closed return centres will be there during this legislature? If so, how many places and within what timeframe? Are you prepared to respond to our proposal to work on temporary centres for forced return, for example by using or renting one or more prison boats or by using vacant military sites or vacant former government barracks, pending that final realization of the Master Plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic503x.u89	Mr President, Mr Van Langenhove, in the Committee on the Interior, I have already said a few things about my services working hard to optimise the plan. The various infrastructure needs were identified. Discussions were held with the partners involved in the implementation of the plan. That this takes time, I admit, but of course we don't go over one night ice cream either. The plan will therefore first be discussed within the government before I can give further details. We all know what happened in a previous legislature when we tried to use a reverse order. In 2018-2019 and in 2020 there would be new closed centres. I don't know about your vision, but at least I haven't seen those centers. Regarding your proposal to temporarily use vacant barracks or former prison boats, I can inform you that my administration has already investigated several slopes in the past, including the entry into service of vacant barracks and the rent of pontoons. Both are not viable slopes for operational reasons. Empty barracks do not meet the infrastructure needs and safety requirements for a closed center, such as the presence of perimeter protection, checkpoints, fences for outdoor walks, camera surveillance, vandalism-proofing of all residents' sanitary facilities and living rooms, ceilings, windows and common premises, insulation cells, the installation of guard posts and the residents' wing. I can go on like this for a while. The rent of detention pontoons was also investigated, but this is both legally and practically not feasible. I understand the question of looking for alternatives. After all, it is not a illogical question because we need additional capacity. Unfortunately, the possibilities you are proposing have already been examined and they have not been realisticly assessed. Not everything needs extra resources, but I can reassure you. In the context of the appropriations for the new policy, there is also a sensitive investment in return for more than EUR 30 million at cruising speed. So we're working on this. I hope to provide more information quickly on the infrastructure needs, but in the meantime we have considerably strengthened our staff, including for forced return. I think this was necessary, because it is a matter of investing in infrastructure, but the people who work there are at least as important. At least we've already taken that step.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic503x.u90	Mr Secretary of State, I agree with what you say, but it is not enough. You say that this was mapped and optimized. You're not about a night of ice cream. The plan was discussed in the government. The services have worked hard over the past few months. I'm sure you will, Mr Secretary of State. I'm sure you and your services are working hard. However, if you say time and again that you will achieve that additional capacity for the closed return centres, concrete steps must also be taken. You say that the previous government has not fulfilled the promises. You cannot use that as an excuse to commit the same mistake in this legislature. When we talk about the barracks and the pontoons, I feel confident that this is not feasible, but it is not feasible to do anything. Alternative slopes may require large investments, but doing nothing is much more expensive, because this country moans under illegality. It costs us a lot of money, not only financially, but there are also huge social costs. Let's invest in that. Let us finally take concrete steps.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic503x.u91	Mrs Safai, we know in our care network a number of Moroccan children and young people for whom the greater interest lies in Morocco and not in Belgium. We also know Moroccan children who, especially in Brussels, live on the streets, commit small crime and often have to do with drugs. We must be able to guide these children and young people towards a sustainable solution, even if it is in the country of origin. This obviously requires cooperation, and I am therefore very pleased that Morocco is putting out a hand here to work together for these minors. That is the right solution for unaccompanied minors here and who need a sustainable solution. In 2020, 645 information sheets for Moroccan unaccompanied minors were received from the Voogdij Service. Of these chips there were 293 first descriptions. Six of them have applied for international protection. In 2020, 25 Moroccan minors received an orange card under the special residence procedure. 26 Moroccan minors received an A-card and 7 received a B-card, because for them the sustainable solution was established in Belgium. 14 orders were issued for the minors for whom the durable solution was in the country of origin. It is therefore necessary for this last group to cooperate with Morocco. I am very pleased that Morocco has expressed this ambition. We are going to work on it in the short term, because it is a good thing that countries of origin realise that these minors, who come from another country, are best received in Morocco if their sustainable future is there. Mr President, I know I am not allowed to do it, but you will excuse me, but I would like to give you the information that the names of the representatives of the Inter-Ministerial Conference are now known on the Flemish side. These are Mr Jambon, Mr Somers and Mrs Crevits. As you can see, the commission is paying off. We are putting pressure on the regions and they are reacting immediately.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic503x.u92	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll study this further.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic503x.u93	Mr Secretary of State, last week we read in the press that Greece at the border with Turkey is testing a high-tech surveillance network, including a steel border wall, observation towers with cameras and polygraphs with artificial intelligence. The most striking thing is that the Greek border police want to use a sound cannon to prevent refugees from crossing the border and applying for asylum. The sound cannon project in Greece is likely to have come about with European funds going to projects to improve the security of the EU's external borders. Hungary and Latvia would also experiment with new techniques. Do you have any idea of the European funds that go directly or indirectly to such high-tech forms of border surveillance? Have you talked to your European colleagues about the Greek approach? If so, what is Europe's position on such forms of border surveillance by Member States, which de facto amount to an illegal pushback policy? What is your position on the use of a sound cannon as a means of border surveillance?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic503x.u94	Mrs Platteau, I would remind you that Mr Segers questioned me yesterday in plenary. For me, it is clear that European border control needs to be improved. I think everyone agrees with that. We need to check more closely at the external borders how people come here, who they are and who leaves. That control must be properly organised in order to ensure controlled and well-organised migration, but it must not be done in the manner stated. The EU must watch over its borders, but it must also guard its values. The border where the cannon would be deployed is not just a Greek border. It is also an external border for the European Union, and so the Union is partly responsible, even if it is a Greek initiative by people in Greek uniforms. We can't look away. The use of a sound cannon for border surveillance has not yet been discussed in European fora. However, I do think that we should enter into the debate on this issue. That is why I have sent a letter to Commissioner Johansson to address the use of drones, cameras and artificial intelligence and to make it clear that there is no problem with the use of certain technological means, but that there is also a limit to that. Some things are simply unacceptable. In my letter I pointed out that the surveillance of external borders is important. Member States are allowed to strengthen them. More than that, it has to be, but not like that. We cannot see migrants and asylum seekers merely as a security problem; they are people who, regardless of their status, are always entitled to humane treatment. Modern technologies to guard borders don't necessarily have to be bad Everything about technology isn't the way to go. There must be sufficient investment in people. In addition, there must always be a way for asylum seekers and migrants to register at the border. I can understand that asylum seekers are particularly wanted to be referred to the border posts. These are places where asylum can be applied for and identified. It must be done by this route, because if they are affected by forests and rivers in Europe, then we have not identified them. The problem is not that there are fences, but if there is no door in the fence, if there are no means to apply for asylum or protection anywhere, then there is a problem. That door, the border post, must ensure controlled migration, because it is possible to control who enters Europe. This allows us to register people, which allows us to distinguish refugees from migrants. The border posts must be accessible, registered and registered. It is the EU's responsibility to monitor the functioning of these border posts. Questions have also been asked about the means of border control. For that, I must of course refer to Minister Verlinden, who is responsible for the federal police. In any case, I cannot be clear enough about certain techniques being used, as I said yesterday. Sound cannons may be used to scare off insects. In Guantanamo Bay, sound cannons were used to torture people. That is really not the way we should deal with migrants.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic503x.u95	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. I thank you for saying that this commitment is completely unacceptable, as you clearly said yesterday in plenary. On social media, you have also announced all your dislike of this approach. You are indeed also pointing to the important European responsibility. I would also like to thank you for the letter you sent to the European Commissioner. It is very important for Belgium to give that signal. I follow you in your statement that a sound cannon is being used to drive away birds or cattle, but not to scare away people who are fleeing war and want to apply for asylum in Europe. That cannot be the intention at all. Moreover, this high-tech approach is very expensive. The question arises as to whether this approach is effective or whether it increases the market for smugglers, since smugglers can once again earn substantial money by finding all kinds of ways of circumventing these systems. A European approach is certainly needed, but always with respect for human rights. I do not entirely agree that we should distinguish refugees from migrants at the border. We do have a different view of border procedures. In any case, it is very cynical that the European values we wish to promote are being trampled upon in Greece, the cradle of European society. That is unacceptable. An evidence-based approach to migration is very important. You often say that migration must be controlled. To this end, scientific research should also be considered: how can scientific insights help a fair migration policy? The example of a sound cannon and other technology being used also shows that technology is not in itself value-free and that we certainly need to have a social debate on it.
