ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u2	Madam President, Prime Minister, when you looked at the first images of the empty shopping streets on the news last Saturday, you undoubtedly thought: yes, the shock effect is working. The fact that traders suffer an average turnover loss of between 60 and 85 % and that one retailer goes bankrupt after another is of course only a secondary concern to you. The question is why you choose to shop by appointment, while, for example, you close the hairdressers, who did everything to reopen coronaproof, after a few weeks. Are the hairdressers responsible for the increasing number of corona cases, or is the Consultation Committee doing what? I simply note that there is no scientific basis for specific measures. As a blow to the head, your trial-and-error policy ensures that no one remembers it, and that's why no 30% of the population still trusts your team. Then I would like to say nothing about the confusion created by some of the virologists and some of your coalition partners. There is more, because the change from winter to summer has certainly inspired you to melt away all the perspectives you had given our economy like snow for the sun. After all, you are no longer setting a date and you are thus taking away all hope for many sectors to which you, as Prime Minister, had made concrete promises. If a company is in crisis like you do with your government, that company would have been bankrupt a long time ago. Prime Minister, what will you do for our merchants who have been hit for the umpteenth time? Can you say clearly what exactly your exit strategy is?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u3	Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are on 1 April, but for many months now it has been on 1 April every day. It's a very bad joke, though. Every time the Consultation Committee meets, it comes out of its hat a series of measures that are immediately destroyed and challenged by your own government partners. A majority party president publicly acknowledged that he did not comply with the rules. Another admitted, barely dry ink, that what you had just asked the public to do was something that it did not adhere to. How do you want citizens to discipline and effectively respect measures when those who are supposed to embody them demolish them themselves? More recently, a new club move for traders faced with a closure. In fact, it's almost that: when you force customers to make a fictitious appointment by quickly sending a text message in front of the window, it's little to say that we are in a relatively hypocritical approach. You said at the time that you were going to amplify the support. This has resulted in the fact that even in this case, there would be no double bridge right, despite what one of your ministers has announced. How do you want us to be there? Is there a captain in the ship who tracks a track and who is followed, listened to? We have the feeling that a series of your partners were paging in the opposite direction. If you decide to close – or almost – assume, and pay, especially with the bridge right. Thank you for your clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u4	Mr Van Lommel, your question of perspective is a very justified question that is asked not only in our country but also in other countries in Europe. Unfortunately, we note that today more virulent variants of the virus have been given the upper hand and that it is being forced to take additional measures almost everywhere in Europe, additional entanglements to ensure that the number of infections can be controlled, and above all that the influx in our hospitals can be kept to a maximum. For example, people who need a different treatment can often receive life-saving treatment within the existing hospital capacity. That is why measures are being stepped up in our country, but also in other countries. Mr Van Lommel, I am convinced that no entrepreneur, no restaurant owner, no bar owner will necessarily open his business while at the same time knowing that people do not get the proper care in hospitals because he is just keeping his business open. That is the balance that we, as a government, have to take a social decision on. That balance, Mr Van Lommel, is not a simple balance, that is true. That's crisis management. Crisis management means that plans are sometimes made but at some point they have to be adapted to the circumstances in which they are located. I have no hesitation in admitting that it is more important for me to adjust when it is necessary than to let myself be pinned on something I have said before, in honour and conscience, but which I have to note has changed circumstances. If circumstances have changed, the health of the population is more important than my own ego and the fact that I have to come back to a decision. I hope that you, Mr Van Lommel, would make exactly the same decision in the same situation. Mr Prévot, after the Consultation Committee, there was a very clear communication not from the government but from the governments. Everyone understood that we are in a difficult situation. As I said at the beginning of my answer, we see that hospitals are really starting to get in trouble. In my answer to a more or less similar question last week, I said that in fact, in our country, making decisions in times of crisis is not an easy thing and sometimes requires angelic patience. However, I think that this consultation is important. In my view, in Belgium it is imperative that decisions be taken in concert. However, if we do this, it is important that words be kept and that the collective decision taken by Governments be clearly communicated. How can we expect the population to respect rules that are difficult and that really begin to weigh after more than a year if, at the political level, the same thing is not said? What I see – and I'm not going to close my eyes to – is that a political discussion actually took place on Rue de la Loi. Nevertheless, outside the street of the Act, citizens understand that the measures we have taken were necessary. A week later, other countries such as France are taking comparable measures. As for the fact that shops only work by appointment, there is always a balance between simple measurements and proportional measurements. The simple measures would be to say that shops must be closed. However, I am convinced that our traders are able to open their stores but with some moderation. This is the reason why the reservation measure is indeed a very simple measure. Making an appointment when entering a store is not prohibited. Our goal is not to drive consumers out of stores, but rather to avoid too many people at the same time in shops. In this respect, the measure is very clear: shops or shops (e.g. hairdressers) that have to close touch the double right bridge, those that are able to open benefit from the simple right gateway from the moment their turnover drops by 40%.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u5	Prime Minister, it is time for you to stop staring like an owl in the sun. It's time you stopped your policy of shock effects. It is time for you to take measures that have a scientific basis. It is time for you to stop robbing our merchants and the little man, who is getting tired of your Vivaldi government more and more. It will not be you who will pay for their demise. It is time for you to stop telling the people a root and then pull it away when the goal is almost achieved. It is time that you no longer leave the communication to the virologists, but take them into your own hands. In other words, it is time for a thoughtful exit plan from this crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u6	Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. Your conclusion was finally clear: a single bridge right despite the decision taken to close, unless an appointment was made. This means that there are obviously decisions that are made on the street of the Act but that are not necessarily properly communicated once they are off the street of the Act. In the end, who are the stuffing turkeys? Those who believed in the good words of your independent minister, who obviously misled or tried to deceive. I regret that and I can only invite you to one thing: to ensure that what is negotiated rue de la Loi is understood and accepted everywhere, including Avenue de la Toison d'Or!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u7	Madam President, Prime Minister, we have been saying for a long time that your corona measures lack a legal basis and not just us. All constitutional specialists have been warning for months that these measures are based on legal quicksand. It rarely happens that they all agree on something. It is therefore no surprise that the court of first instance of Brussels confirmed this yesterday and imposed on this government a legal basis within 30 days, on penalty of a penalty of EUR 5,000 per day. That statement is an embarrassment to you, Prime Minister, because you never wanted to listen to those warnings. On the contrary, you denied there was a problem. You even said in February that the pandemic law would create legal uncertainty, while today there is a great deal of legal uncertainty, chaos that you yourself created. I therefore expected that the court ruling would be a lesson of humility for this government, but unfortunately, your totalitarian Deputy Minister Frank Vandenbroucke clearly does not care. I'm not impressed, was his inappropriate response. He's just pushing that verdict aside. He didn't just say that the verdict could be burned as far as he was concerned. Mr Prime Minister, tell your unelected Health Minister that the virus does not like periodic penalty payments and damages claims. Then perhaps he understands the seriousness of unlawful measures. Minister Verlinden said yesterday that an appeal will be made. That is not, in principle, suspensive. Hence my questions to you, Prime Minister. Will you put the measures under way to Parliament for a vote? Will the pandemic law be fully rewritten without delay, so that a legal basis can still be established in good time? Will you abolish the unconstitutional curfew within 30 days?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u8	Madam President, Prime Minister, this could have been a very bad April fish, and yet the Brussels Court of First Instance ordered you to put an end to the illegality of health measures within 30 days. Bread blesses those who relativize the severity of the virus or the third wave, but also for all those who suffer from these measures, all those who drop out of school, those who are stuck with their violent spouse, those who fall into depression or those who see their business sink. You were warned, Prime Minister! So much the path you have chosen was justified by the urgency at the beginning of the pandemic, as it is now illegal and even unconstitutional because it suspends without democratic debate and for more than a year now – you have repeated it just now – our fundamental freedoms. At the announcement of this decision, we heard your various ministers react and relativize the seriousness of the situation. For Mr Vandenbroucke, "even not afraid, we will continue to apply health measures as they are". For Mrs Verlinden, "we will appeal and in any case, our pandemic law will regularize the situation". For Mr. Van Quickenborne, the government will try to convince the Brussels Court of Appeal to take a decision within 30 days. Today, we want to hear from you, Prime Minister. Do you honestly believe that the Pandemic Law which persists in giving full powers to your Minister of the Interior to adopt health measures, which violate fundamental freedoms and which will not have retroactive effect, will be the answer to this decision? Do you honestly believe that the Court of Appeal will accept your request to overstep those litigants who have been waiting for a court decision for years, at least for too long? Would it not be more responsible to put an end to the illegality of measures rather than to hope for a favourable response on appeal? The population's commitment to the measures is very clearly under way. How do you intend to get her back?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u9	Prime Minister, Mrs Verlinden, I told you! On 22 October your government was fresh and I raised the matter for the first time. Six days later, a colleague from Ecolo-Groen, Mr Van Hecke, asked a similar question in committee, and that was already from the majority, although only once, because he did not go through with it later. Week after week, we raised the issue of illegality here, but you shrugged your shoulders; you did not think it was true. Since it is your responsibility, you are now in trouble, but that is the least of my worries. In the meantime, the total chaos we have warned of means that the corona measures will be abolished in the near future. It is not that all these measures would be wrong, but you did misintroduce them. For a government that likes to wear a progressive label, it must be particularly painful that you were brought to order by the League of Human Rights through the court. You have a human rights problem with the government! How progressive can you call yourself? I hope that no other countries in the European Union will raise the issue at a higher level, which has happened before. Hence my question: what will you do now? It's a manifest problem, not a trifle. You may say you will count on an appeal, but we do not know what it will bring. First of all, the judgment is not suspensive. Secondly, if even courts judge in the interpretation of the basis you use to take freedom-limiting measures, apparently one time sister and the other time, then that basis is shaky. So, Prime Minister, Madam Minister, what will you do? In particular, how will you ensure that we do not repeat that error with a pandemic law, on which all constitutional specialists agree that it is fundamentally unconstitutional? (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u10	Prime Minister, Minister, the blunderbook of your corona measures is becoming an encyclopedia. The day before yesterday, the trains were packed, because of your fault. You handed out 2 300 000 free tickets, which had to be taken in the day before yesterday. The trains were packed. Everyone was outraged by the window rule. Yesterday you were rightly flagged back by a judge at first instance in Brussels. Your left-wing government does nothing more than raise its finger in the world, when it comes to human rights, and now you are being subpoenaed by the League of Human Rights, and you are being condemned, and for your left-wing government, which is so eager to raise its finger. I would run red with shame or at least blue with anger. If it wasn't so sad, people would think it was an April joke. The judiciary is calling back the executive because it does not take the legislative power into account. You always stick behind the backs of experts and vision tube virologists to pursue a strong, draconian policy. Minors are put in jail, pizza boxes are counted and more of that. However, you refuse to listen to the warnings of constitutional specialists, for months, for the way in which you rape our fundamental fundamental rights and freedoms. You are now going to appeal, which is your full right. On 28 October last year, the same court of appeal in Brussels already ruled that the European Convention on Human Rights was not respected. When will the government of socialists, liberals, ecologists and Christian Democrats respect human rights, the Constitution and Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u11	Prime Minister, Minister, we have been facing this deadly virus for over a year now. We all know how important it is to be able to act very quickly, in other words to take measures to combat the spread of the virus effectively and thus to save lives. We see the same in all our neighbouring countries. We're not inventing anything. Whether it is federal states such as Germany or centralist states such as France, in all these countries it is about identical measures that need to be taken and about governments that also effectively assume their responsibilities. The government bases its efforts on the Civil Security Act of 2007. I know that law: it was born at the time in the aftermath of Ghislenghien. That law wasn't really designed to fight a long-term pandemic. That was not the intention of the legislator at the time, but courts and the Council of State have approved that basis several times. Yesterday there was a different verdict. If the ruling on asylum and migration had gone, one would have dared from left-wing judges, activist judges or foreign judges. I respect an independent judiciary regardless of what it is about. It is good that the preliminary draft that we discussed yesterday in plenary is now being rapidly approved by Parliament. Three principles are important to my group. Firstly, Parliament must authorise the government to act within a pandemic law; secondly, the measures must be able to take effective immediate action; and a mayor does not first go to the city council to put out a fire; and thirdly, Parliament must discuss the measures immediately afterwards, adjust them and vote on them if necessary. I look forward with interest to the opinion of the Council of State. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u12	Madam President, Prime Minister, Minister, the Court of First Instance in Brussels delivered a judgment in the interim proceedings yesterday. We respect that judgment, as we also respect 6 judgments of the Council of State in general and more than 20 judgments of the Council of State in another chamber, as we also respect the judgments of the Mons and Brussels Appeals Court, as we respect the hundreds of judgments of police judges. We also respect two judgments of the same court of first instance in Brussels, which is in the course of interim proceedings, with another magistrate, who rejected the claims. If some colleagues are blaming the government, as Mr De Roover did yesterday and Mrs Pas today, that this one sentence would be a disgrace to her, then perhaps we should say that those hundreds of judgments and judgments are a wake-up call for the opposition. Colleagues, in a rule of law, everyone has the right to appeal, including the Belgian State. If this is a matter of principle, I think it is appropriate. More importantly, the verdict puts the ball in the legislature's camp. We therefore need to create legislation in the coming period, which the Prime Minister described in his letter: "legislation which, on the one hand, strikes a good balance between speed and flexibility and, on the other hand, between the need for a well-defined set of measures surrounded by the necessary fundamental and democratic tests." Prime Minister, Minister, I would like to ask you about the timing of this legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u13	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will answer this question together with the Minister for the Interior, who will deal with some of the issues in greater detail. I myself want to touch some elements. Firstly, let us keep the debate pure and simple. This judgment in the interim proceedings is based solely on the legal basis of the measures. The judgment does not say anything about the constitutionality of the measures themselves. The measures themselves are not questioned. Of course, they remain valid. I note, not only in Parliament, that these two things are often confused. The Minister for the Interior indeed announced yesterday that the government is going to appeal, as many have said here. The Council of State has repeatedly stated that the Civil Security Act of 2007 is a sufficient legal basis. The court's ruling does indeed express a different opinion on this matter. What should this government do now? Allow me to use a Russian proverb, which goes as follows: pray to God, but always row to the shore. Freely translated: have faith, but in the meantime work out solutions. So, yes, we appeal because we think we have a point to make, but in the meantime it makes sense that we are also working on solutions. Parliament has been very closely involved in these solutions, which we are working on. Yesterday there was a very broad debate on the pandemic law. All the political groups in Parliament are involved in the discussion. This debate on the Pandemic Law must take place in depth in order to offer a stable solution. To do this, we must take into account the opinions given by the Council of State and the many comments made in this Parliament. In total, I think we are talking about more than 600 pages of comments to be examined in detail to see if they are relevant and applicable. A stable legal basis is needed, but it must also be flexible. As some have said, in times of crisis we must be able to act quickly. To this end, flexibility is essential. It is clear that the timing will be a challenge. That's obvious. However, with a healthy urgency, it should be possible to complete the pandemic law within the appropriate time frame. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that the current government is now accountable. On Monday, the Minister for the Interior was present in the committee and had a debate with the members of the committee on the content of the ministerial decision. It has taken part in the debate and has listened to the comments made. That makes sense. That brings me to my final point. We are in exceptional circumstances, which force us to take absolutely exceptional measures. These are measures that no government can lightly discuss. It is a matter of exceptional limitations to our freedom. It therefore seems logical to me that, in relation to an exceptional circumstance and exceptional measures, exceptional care should also be taken by the government which takes the measures. This means that the government must indeed be accountable. If there is a court ruling, it is logical that that ruling should be taken into account and that new point should be taken into account. Of course, we have the opportunity to appeal, but it is a statement for which we must respect in all neutrality. We must, of course, be accountable in this respect to the judiciary, but also to Parliament. It is clear in recent weeks that the current government is aware of the responsibility for the care it bears in today's most careful times. That will remain the guidance of the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u14	Madam President, yesterday's ruling by the Court of First Instance is proof that our rule of law is working. As always, the only possible attitude is to learn respectfully about a court ruling, even if that ruling poses additional challenges. We have analysed the ruling and we are now appealing, because we believe there are arguments to convince the court of appeal to review the ruling. After all, it has been said here a few times, the Council of State, but also many other courts and courts have repeatedly ruled in a number of judgments that the legal basis for the measures is valid. Can I find it selective that some seem to have less respect for one judgment than for the other? Isn't it picky to appreciate judges when they make a ruling that is politically convenient, but to express that appreciation much less when the verdict doesn't seem politically convenient? Because we are convinced of the arguments, we will defend the case and await the ruling of the court of appeal. Finally, it is up to the court of appeal to reach a final judgment. Let me be clear: no matter what happens in the meantime, the measures to combat the COVID-19 virus will remain in force. So, Mr De Roover, they do not just fall away, even after 30 April. It is important that we stick to that, not because we think so, but because we also see today that the figures are still going in the wrong direction. That's why we do that, because we want everyone to stay healthy and because we want the virus not to infect everyone. In the meantime, of course, and that is the starting point even after the acquaintance of yesterday's decision, we do not just go to the order of the day. In any case, over the last few weeks, I have discussed the measures with Parliament on several occasions and I have never avoided the debate. Moreover, after the start of the government, I was one of the first to call for an additional and specific legal basis for the sanitary measures. The result is that today there is a preliminary draft pandemic law, with a proposal to increase Parliament's involvement and control. Yesterday, in a unique path, we held a debate in Parliament on the drafting of that pandemic law. Many talk about this issue which is an important matter for this Parliament, but which is even more important for all citizens of Belgium outside. Having a debate on a preliminary draft law, even before the opinion of the Council of State is given, I believe, shows great openness and transparency, or democratic innovation in practice. There were auditions. Opinions have been drafted. The breadth of the debate shows that it has left no one indifferent. We have listened carefully and take all our thoughts and comments to heart. We will submit, as soon as possible and after receiving the advice of the Council of State, an amended bill for voting. As you know, the opinion of the Council of State is expected on 15 April 2021. I also want to take this opportunity to invite everyone, including the opposition, to continue working constructively because there is only one fight. It's a fight for our health and against the virus. Let's not forget that. Together we are trying to control a crisis that threatens general public health. People are still dying from this virus today, and the pressure on our hospitals remains very high. That is why we must not be mistaken about the enemy. There's only one enemy, there's only one person in the opposition, and that's the virus. The importance and complexity of this crisis require that we let go of taboos, that we convert delay manoeuvres into accelerations and that we turn opposition into progress. I'm already determined. All that matters to me is that we work together as quickly as possible, with respect for our rights and freedoms and our democracy, to defeat the invisible adversary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u15	Prime Minister, you have a bad Russian interpreter. The real saying is, pray to God, but trust in your common sense. And let that be what the government seems to lack. I have been telling you since October and I will tell you again: exceptional situations do indeed require exceptional measures, but in a rule of law they must be taken properly, with a legal basis. Freedom-limiting measures cannot be taken through ministerial decisions, which has been going on here for a year. Beyond Parliament, a rule of law and democracy is unworthy. So finally act like one. Stop your therapeutic persistence. Take action and do so within the time limit, which you unfortunately had to be imposed by the court, because after a year the population is more than entitled to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u16	Prime Minister, by playing with fire, you burned yourself! Your appeal will not change anything. Worse still, it gives the public the impression that you do not want to respect the rules, while at the same time you ask the citizens and the public to respect them, with enormous sacrifices. Whether you want it or not, yesterday's order will make case law and the citizens, the independents aggrieved by these measures will use it to introduce new injunctions. Each time, you will not be able to bring appeals or pay compensation, damages to which you will be sentenced, which is more with the taxpayer's money. You have no choice but to correct the shot. Otherwise, who will benefit from it? The virus of course! But also, and we just heard, the far right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u17	It will be interesting to look at the Minister's statement that the measures seem to continue to apply on 30 April. I do not know whether that is in line with the case law we received yesterday. If these measures are so important to public health - and this is the case - then it is up to you both to ensure that they can be properly and legally respected. If you cannot do so, then you have shown manifest incompetence. I also have a Russian proverb: if the challenge lies on the Volga, make your barge waterproof first.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u18	Many corona measures affect fundamental rights. A restriction of these freedoms can only be done by law. That is a ruling of the Appeals Court of 20 October 2020, ma'am. I hear your ministers rely more on God than on the law. I heard the Minister of Justice appealing to the rain god this morning. He hopes it rains, so fewer travelers come to the coast. As a coastal mayor I absolutely don't need a rain dance, not even an over-subsidised dancer from Antwerp. I invite you both to take a place at the window and come by train to the coast. You will be wonderfully received in my municipality Middelkerke. Iedereen, elke mens, elke werkmens, also francophones, everyone is welcome to the coast. I will receive you in a unique way. I'll wait till tomorrow to make that known. You will be welcomed on the sea dike, in an appropriate way, as we receive our tourists.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u19	Madam President, I have two comments to make. I think it is important that we resume discussion of the preliminary draft budget as soon as possible after the parliamentary recess. I look forward to it. I believe that Parliament must be able to show a good deal of urgency in order to adopt this law within the prescribed time limit, thus respecting the judiciary. I would like to call on the N-VA Group to stop selective indignation. I have heard Flemish Minister Weyts say that there can no longer be a closure of schools without a decision by the Flemish Parliament. After the decision of the Consultative Committee, taken unanimously by the federal government and all the state governments, I have not seen any debate in the Flemish Parliament. That was not before decisions were made and certainly not after. There is the image of the N-VA: listen to my words, but don't look at my actions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u20	Thank you, Prime Minister, Madam Minister, for your reply. I believe that yesterday's debate and today's debate show that the majority is absolutely determined to create an additional legal basis, allowing us, in the exceptional circumstances in which we live, to take exceptional measures which we would not have liked to take and which we hope could be withdrawn as soon as possible, if the state of health so permits. In a democracy, it is normal practice for the government to first seek the opinion of the Council of State when a draft law is submitted to Parliament, after that opinion refines the texts and then actually submits the text to Parliament. We will do our homework and I hope that colleagues from the opposition will do the same. A proposal on a sheet of paper that even goes far beyond the scope of the pandemic, I do not think that is enough.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u21	Madam President, Minister, as you know, last Monday, the two largest trade unions of ABVV and ACV laid down their work throughout the country. They want two things, respect and a higher gross wage. The actions have been very well followed up throughout the country, both in the north and in the south and in the center of the country. Although VOKA shouted from the rooftops that these actions could not be corona safe in the present times, the unions have proved that they could. You yourself repeated this week that no incident has occurred anywhere. The bottom line is that a lot of employers can learn a lesson from that when it comes to corona-safe work. What became particularly clear to the pickets was that people do not understand how billions of euros are paid in dividends in this country, but that for them there is a maximum of 0.4% of wages. Mr. Secretary, you're not gonna be able to explain that anymore, are you? Under pressure from the social movement, it begins to move within the political lines of your government. You keep squeezing back to one direction, the one-off premiums, participation in profits, extra leave days and that's more. If there is one thing that is clear, it is that our employees are essential. You want to kill yourself with a jar of chocolate or a pair of socks. By the way, how much social security goes off from a pair of socks? That's the question I'm asking. Those one-time bonuses don't include an employee in his career. Let's get that straight. They have to be renegotiated every year. They also do not contribute to social security, to funding and not to pension-building. In addition, when someone is unlucky enough to get sick, he or she has a lot less pay. An increase in gross wages can no longer be reduced. That is why we and the trade unions are asking for the 1996 wage bill finally to be amended. I have two brief questions. You were with the social partners yesterday. What did you agree with them? What are the next steps?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u22	Madam President, Mr Colebunders, I have had numerous bilateral talks in recent weeks. Thanks to these discreet contacts, we managed to get all the social partners to the table in my cabinet yesterday. The positions on different issues remain far apart, but both camps have confirmed their willingness to continue the negotiations. Yesterday, at the end of the meeting, we agreed not to communicate publicly about the content of the talks. You will understand that I respect the confidentiality that both camps demand. In the coming days, I will be in contact with the various actors to continue the work.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u23	Madam President, Minister, since January this seems to be yet another repetition of FC De Champions. I don't have to ask you any more questions, because I already know your answer. Again and again you give the same answer and you do nothing about it. Every time, you open the umbrella. Even after the third action in a row, you keep opening your umbrella. You say in the media that this strike is not against you, but against the employers. That's not true. She's got a point against you, though. If you do not comply with the 1996 law, then the strike is against you. As long as you continue to do so and continue to walk on the side of the liberals, you will support the wishes of the liberals and it is clear which direction you are heading. You should not say that you support the trade unions for 200 percent, because you do not support them. Meanwhile, the N-VA is rubbing its hands when it can openly proclaim here that the strikers are radical fools and thank you again. If that is the way you want to go, I thank you in the name of all the people who have stopped.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u24	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, on fine days, the stations and trains are filling up towards the coast. We know that, but it simply cannot be because of the health risks. How can we continue to make safe train journeys to the beach possible? Of course, the CEO's proposal to stop rail traffic if necessary is not a solution. That's a disaster. That either pushes people into the car or leaves a lot of people in the lurch. That letter is a cynical demarche that makes people a toy in the ping-pong game between SNCB and the government. I would like to thank you for that. So how do we get out of here, if full trains are not an option, full stations are not options and no trains are obviously not an option? It is a good thing that the government has already decided, and insists on the decision, to limit the number of people on the train, to also reduce health risks. The problem is of course that people with a ticket and their beach bag come to the station and only then to see that they have to stand in line for a very long time, not even get on the train. SNCB must stop selling tickets to people who will never see the inside of a train. This leads to an overwhelming and frustration of people who pay but do not get on the train. However, there is a constructive solution. Work on a reservation system. A system that ensures that anyone who buys a ticket also has the guarantee that he gets safely to his destination by train. So that is today's issue. Do we choose the chaos or do we use the time until the next summer to set up such a system? Mr. Secretary, you can set this in motion, are you prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u25	Madam President, Minister, the beautiful weather was predicted and it was the last days on which the free train pass was valid. So it was written in the stars. A little kid actually knew there would be trouble with the trains to the sea. Not only for those who wanted to visit the sea, also for the people who needed the train to go to work and for those who wanted to visit the art cities. The cities of Ghent and Bruges also need safe tourists. Now they're scared off by overcrowded trains. Everyone has the right to go out. Everyone has the right to enjoy the sun. The coast belongs to everyone. The dike belongs to everyone. The beach belongs to everyone. CD&V fits in to get the people in the car. CD&V fits in to oblige people to stand in traffic, with raging engines, to enjoy the sea. We are therefore convinced that measures need to be taken, because the reality is that the current measures are not sufficient. On 3 April, the regulation begins that one should sit at the window. We find it a little strange, but we give it a chance. Of course, there can be fewer people on one train. Some people will have to pass more than four trains before they can leave. We therefore believe that the government should give SNCB the opportunity to re-use more trains to the coast, but that capacity should be limited. Also use the event sector. The event sector is simply to guide large crowds. Those people don't have a job right now. They crave a job. Put them in. You can book on the TGV. This should also be possible with SNCB. It is not normal that someone who buys a ticket at the counter does not know how many tickets have already been purchased, either online or via the vending machines. Let's make a proper reservation system. Minister, would you like to use more trains with limited capacity? Are you going to stand behind the window scheme? Will you work on a reservation system? I'm not naive. We can't do that anymore for the Easter holidays, but maybe before the summer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u26	Minister, your relationship with SNCB management is definitely not like a long, quiet river. When it's not in one file, it's in another. In this case, it reminds us that the time of the free Railpass – thanks to which we could all discover, to the left or to the right, the charms of our country – is a very distant time. Today, a large number of traders do not understand that they have had to prevent their customers from returning – except by appointment and provided that it is one person at a time – while they see at the evening JT cars packed with crushed passengers against each other. In a country as modern as ours, it is still staggering to see such scenes. From a strictly health point of view, and although I confess not to be a virologist, I do not think that the virus decides to spread more massively on the way back than on the way back. There is therefore a question of consistency in the way in which decisions have been taken. The result is a total lack of understanding and commitment. That we need to strengthen the lines, it's obvious. However, management now comes to draw the alarm signal by warning that, in the face of the cohue thus generated, it is not up to it to perform a police function, while wondering if it will eventually be forced to do so. Minister, it is your role to ensure that the Coordinating Committee takes consistent and operational action. And it is not for lack of warning, the very day before the Codeco, by an official letter from Mrs Dutordoir! What suite did you set aside for him? How are you going to deal with this situation? Indeed, SNCB threatens to resort to strike action if no solution is found. This is still the most beautiful admission of failure – a fourth, since three others had already been detected last week! Thank you in advance for your clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u27	Minister, who today doesn't want to escape? Who today does not want to go oxygenate the spirit and morale in the beautiful Ardennes forests? Who doesn't want to go looking for the comfort of playing with his children to build sand castles? After a year of pandemic, confinement, with today's closed schools and as spring holidays approach, many citizens and many families need air. And what about families living in dwellings without a garden or terrace? What about women and men who, without a car, want to leave the bitumen of cities? Being able to leave your neighbourhood to breathe, take air from the sea or the countryside is not a luxury. It is even a necessity which, for many families and many citizens, rests on the train. As political decision-makers, it is up to us to protect both public health and the psychological health of our citizens, and we must be aware that certain measures, such as the removal of trains to the coast, would more severely affect the populations who are already the most disadvantaged and the most vulnerable. Today, for the PS group, this cannot be an option. On the eve of the spring holidays, the SNCB – as requested by its CEO – must be allowed to exploit all its capacities to the tourist areas, in order to preserve the right of every Belgian to travel freely and safely where he wishes, whether to the coast or to the countryside. Unlocking capacity also means ensuring safe working conditions for SNCB staff at stations and trains. Recently, these conditions have become virtually untenable for these workers, and I can only understand them. Therefore, Minister, let me ask you the following questions. Will you allow SNCB to increase the number of trains to tourist areas and thus guarantee social distancing in trains and stations? What measures are being taken to promote other tourist destinations such as beautiful Ardennes, Gaumaese and others?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u28	Mr Minister, last week we heard something very special, namely that SNCB's windows have an antiviral function. Who'd have thought? No more virus thanks to double glazing. This week, however, we learned that this antiviral activity exists only in the direction of the coast. When people return, it doesn't work anymore. Minister, I know it is 1 April today, but we can still be a little serious. Did you really think that in good weather, with closed shops and schools, people wouldn't want to go to sea? Are you sure you didn't anticipate that? I now hear solutions like book in advance or abolish trains. What's going on? It is precisely the people from the people's neighbourhoods who take the train to go to the sea. Ladies and gentlemen, what is the solution? I'll tell you what, we need to put in more trains. That should be possible, for example by using the P-trains that run during the week also on weekends. Secondly, one can abolish the first class on the weekend, then there is immediately 10 to 15 % extra capacity. Have everyone take their seats there. Thirdly, good working conditions are also needed for the railway women and the railmen. That's the solution, not blaming people again or sending the police to keep them out of the stations. No, there must be solutions that give people breathing space. We have been working on this for a year now, and it would be a pleasure for everyone, especially the ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u29	Madam President, Minister, the limitation of the capacity of trains to the coast, decided by the last Codeco, has been a legitimate debate for several days. New episode today with the position taken by the CEO of SNCB, barely 24 hours after having said in Le Soir "once the decision has been made, whether it is good or bad, it must be applied" and presented a range of measures to manage the situation. It would therefore appear that she has changed her mind. Indeed, in this letter, we note an ultimatum addressed to the government to review the decisions of the last Codeco, referring in particular to the option of stopping traffic to the destinations concerned. Stopping traffic. It's amazing for a railway operator. It's even incomprehensible. Minister, if the Codeco decision raises logistical difficulties, it is also worrying to see SNCB in such a state of distress in the predictable management of a large number of passenger flows, even though solutions exist, since a number of them have already been applied in the emergency. As ecologists, we also recall that day trips to the sea by train are for many Belgians the only way to get to the coast. It's an indispensable bowl of air. I'm thinking of those who live in small apartments, who don't have a car, who don't have the means to book a place. For all these Belgians, we support you in your efforts to guarantee this right to mobility, including in an unfavourable health environment. Minister, what is the government's response to the CEO of SNCB? Are there any additional measures planned in collaboration, in particular, with the Interior? Knowing that this type of situation can happen again, how does SNCB intend to improve the management of boarding on trains? Finally, will the action taken by the Codeco be assessed on its logistical implications and social consequences?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u30	Minister, for a year we have seen the same story on every sunny holiday day: full trains, full platforms, full stations. For over a year, all parties here have been asking for additional measures to manage the flow of passengers, for health on the train, for crowd control in the stations. That proposal on reservation was made last year, but every time you chose to reject the proposals, from the first to the last, whether it came from the majority, the opposition or even your own Green Group. Everything you've turned down, you've chosen for a year not to do anything about corona on the train. Even the half-baked window rule has been pushed through by shadow Prime Minister Vandenbroucke because you didn't want it again. Even if one sees in advance that it will be crowded on the train and on the coast, you still refuse to call on the people flatly to choose another destination, which means that SNCB is sitting with the fried pears and has to clean up behind your back the chunks of your non-policy. You just don't do anything. The contrast cannot be greater with the man on the street who is repeatedly asked for new efforts, or with the entrepreneur who has to fight for his survival. For the second time in two months, SNCB's CEO must write a letter saying that it cannot go on like this. The distrust is apparently sky high and the time of sitting still and doing nothing is over. Please do something, Minister. What will you do with SNCB's call for action? Will you finally take additional measures for health on the train and, above all, do you still have the authority to run this department?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u31	Madam President, Minister, the Codeco of 24 March 2021 decided, for trains to the coast, a rule that passengers should sit on the seats at the window. This measure will apply during the spring holidays, i.e. from April 3 to 18, 2021 and the weekend of April 24 and 25, 2021. Again this morning, we are told that a letter from the CEO of SNCB considers this measure to be inapplicable. It would even threaten to suspend trains to the coast if no decision was taken at the political level. These train trips for all Belgians who are subject to the various measures imposed by the crisis remain a very delicate issue. Indeed, it is legitimate for our fellow citizens to wish to enjoy the good days and the resounding effect of a stay at sea, as demonstrated, Mr.Minister, by the massive influx of passengers to the coast on Tuesday, March 30, 2021. As you know, this has caused a huge mess on the rail: stations and trains crowded and impossible to guarantee adequate sanitary measures. The CEO of SNCB considered this to be a collective responsibility. Apart from the fact that communication with SNCB's CEO does not seem to have been optimal, it must be acknowledged that this issue is problematic. Minister, how do I respond to Mrs Dutordoir's ultimatum for trips during spring holidays? How can we avoid the chaos we experienced this Tuesday, March 30, 2021? Minister, are you in favour of setting up a reservation system for travellers to the coast? Has the coordination between your firm and SNCB been optimal, both for the issue of March 30, 2021 and for the window travel system? How can we explain this unilateral departure of the CEO of SNCB?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u32	Colleagues, thank you for your questions. I look forward to discussing with you the train and rail mobility in this House. I confirm that I share your interest in this subject. On Tuesday we debated widely in the Committee on measures relating to the organisation of the train service in the context of the pandemic, particularly during the next Easter holidays. I'm happy to come back today. The federal government and the Concerted Committee have decided to allow Belgians to continue to move freely despite the pandemic, unlike other countries, for example France, which severely limits the mobility of its fellow citizens. It is essential to allow this freedom of movement despite the pandemic because mobility is a freedom and because a balance must be sought between physical and mental health concerns. Since the beginning of the pandemic, SNCB has transported people by train, with the support of its Minister. I stress the remarkable work done by its staff, especially train attendants, in these difficult times for everyone. In view of the increase in the number of infections with coronavirus, and especially given the number of hospitalizations in intensive care services that are likely to affect our health care system, the Consultation Committee decided two weeks ago on new measures aimed, among other things, at avoiding too large gatherings. We know that trains to the Belgian coast can be very busy, especially in good weather. We saw that again this week. Hence the decisions that were taken. The intention is to reduce the pressure on the trains to the sea. There has already been very regular discussions between my cabinet and SNCB on how to manage the corona situation in the trains. Since this decision of the Consultation Committee, my cabinet and I have been in permanent contact with SNCB, with the Federal Crisis Centre and with the Cabinet of the Minister for the Interior to implement this measure. SNCB also communicated about this yesterday. The measure will therefore be applied to trains to the coast. SNCB shall deploy additional staff in the stations and on trains to manage the situation as effectively as possible. She also does proactive communication to the following stations to indicate the number of places still available. For the first time, a system will also be tested to predict the number of passengers to the coastal stations. I would like to stress the efforts made by SNCB to respond to the requests of the Concertation Committee and to reiterate that the consultations are permanent between us. SNCB also invites travellers to consider destinations other than the North Sea. I join her and other colleagues in recalling, Mrs Hanus, that our country is full of beautiful areas to visit from north to south through the centre and west. I have also received many questions about the possibility of introducing a reservation system for trains. This question needs to be considered more objectively. That is why I asked the administration of the FPS Mobility to study this. It is necessary to identify whether this is being applied in other countries with similar rail networks and how this can be done. For me, it is important that the train remains easily accessible to everyone. The freedom to easily take public transport for our daily journeys is crucial. Our public transport is a public service, in which customer focus must be central. I don't think it's wise to want to change that without proper analysis. The CEO of SNCB did send me a letter, as well as to the Prime Minister and the Minister of the Interior, to indicate how difficult it was for the company and its workers to implement these measures. And I must tell you that I fully understand his concerns and those of the staff of SNCB, who responded quickly on Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday to activate his emergency plan and to manage the demand according to the number of travellers legitimately wishing to go to the Belgian coast to enjoy the good air of the sea. Is that easy to carry out? Definitely not. Will we support SNCB in order to do so? Jazeker. The Crisis Centre, local police and the federal police will support SNCB workers in this effort. In reply to this letter, I confirmed to the managing director of SNCB that the measure would apply from Saturday 3 April, as provided for in the Ministerial Decision of 26 March. I have also asked him to use all the means necessary to manage the situation, in particular by ensuring sufficient capacity for trains to the sea and other directions. This will then be evaluated with all interested parties. At the same time as managing this complex situation, I continue to work with my teams, with SNCB, with Infrabel, to make rail the backbone of tomorrow's mobility, to carry out a project that puts the traveller at the centre and encourages more and more Belgians to take this mode of travel. It'll be all the easier when we're done with this pandemic. In conclusion, I would like to reiterate that these are exceptional measures relating to an exceptional situation that no one has wanted or desired. These are measures that, as Minister of Mobility – even if it is not cheerfulness of heart – I assume, because they are temporary and necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u33	Minister, I know that the subject is important and that five minutes is not long. But can I invite you to make your response within the deadlines set?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u34	Madam President, Minister, everyone agrees that people should be able to spend a day on the coast or elsewhere and that they should be able to do so by train. SNCB is indeed making efforts. Colleagues, full trains and full stations are unfortunately not magical places that are virus-free. That is why it is good, Minister, that you have repeated that the government expects to avoid crowds on trains and in stations. We are also counting on SNCB to do so. Minister, I am very pleased that you would like to look at our proposal for the introduction of a reservation system. That is a very constructive attitude which we welcome much more than the letters we have read this morning, which threaten to stop rail traffic. We will never accept that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u35	Madam President, Minister, you will predict and see how many people are coming to the stations. That's good. You will see if additional trains can be put in, so that the train users do not sit like herrings in a tonne. That's good. You state that you will study the reservation system. That is good, but I also believe that Belgium can be progressive. Let's take the odds. That will not work for the Easter holidays and also Ascension will be difficult. However, do it by summer so that we do not get hectic conditions in the summer. Finally, when the government takes decisions on the railway and on the measures to be taken to get to the sea safely, I believe that we should speak in advance with the management of SNCB, which will increase the chances of success. I thank you and have every confidence in it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u36	Minister, I may end by saying "dank u wel" but not "alle vertourrouwen". As far as I'm concerned, I'm still a little hungry. Finally, we do not know any more about your intentions, and yet you have even raised one of your Ecolo colleagues to ask the question: "Mr Minister, what are you and the Prime Minister going to answer to this letter from Mrs Dutordoir?" We're going to have better communication, we're going to study the ability to make reservations and probably that will be useful for the next crisis, but I don't think that in the near future, it can be implemented. It's okay. It's always something useful for the rest of the day. I think there is certainly a call to go and discover other very charming tourist areas in Belgium and you have done so, but there is also very probably an exceptional and temporary way – to take up your adjectives – of reorganizing the trains to be considered in order to condense as much as possible, towards the Belgian coast, the trains that might be available. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u37	Minister, thank you for your answers. I would like to pay tribute to the interest of all my colleagues in the Committee on Mobility and their many speeches, today in plenary, on this subject. It is indeed a real urgency to allow citizens to enjoy the sea, our forests or our museums. Everyone must be allowed to go by train, if he wishes. It is not only those who have cars that have the right to mobility. Let's increase the tourist trains, increase the transport capacity! The right to mobility passes through SNCB. I remind you that in these difficult times, the need to move, walk and aerate is vital. Let us remember that the train is already a taste for travel! Let's give SNCB the means to take us on a trip! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u38	Minister, if I understand correctly, you are not going to do anything! In summary, it's clear to everyone, even if you've turned around a little bit. You have a letter from the CEO of SNCB. You're going to be quiet waiting for the weekend to pass. It's still crazy! "We're going to improve communication a little"... But in reality, you're not going to do anything! That window rule, everybody says it's ridiculous. And you're not going back to that. I think it's pretty amazing. You're just hoping the weather will get worse, which is what it's all about. It's your only strategy. It's still crazy! You said a little phrase, and I'd like you to develop it a little bit. You said, "We're going to increase our capabilities." The CD&V is already hot. That's a little phrase you said at the very end of the speech. Can you tell us, here, today – in my opinion, this will be the information of the session – that train capacity will be doubled on Saturday and Sunday? Is that a quick sentence? I think people need to know what is actually going to be done on the ground, minister. Increasing capacity actually seems to me to be the solution to be adopted, as well as declassifying the first class. I think we all have the right to go to the sea this Sunday. It's a step you need to take.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u39	Minister, thank you for your answers. Mr. Prévot, thank you for your good words. I think you have not heard or understood the minister's answer very well. When a decision is made, it is made. In this case, the letter does not call into question the decision taken by the Codeco. I believe that this is the way to translate the explanations that have been given to us. As the Minister pointed out, in other countries, the cutoff fell with a limitation of displacement, which reinforces the inequalities between citizens in the way of living this crisis. The balance sought here makes the situation complex. I haven't heard many magic solutions. But indeed, there are avenues for solutions, creativity, especially with regard to the availability of seats on trains and the ability to verify this information. This complexity is based on the desire to preserve fundamental rights. It is important and essential that this remains possible. We support you in this principle and encourage each of the actors concerned to make the necessary efforts so that, from tomorrow, it is possible to move to the sea as easily by train as by car.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u40	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, our Minister for Mobility has lost control. Mr President-in-Office, we have just once again proposed, called for and put forward a number of concrete actions. In the meantime, we are used to not expressing any commitment, which is a bit of the political culture of this government. However, you are also ignoring SNCB. SNCB rang the alarm twice with the message that you will not be able to do so anymore, that you must talk to them. However, I cannot understand the fact that you continue and refuse to adjust. In September, you started with great promises and ambitions. You were going to do it completely differently, with bigger, better and more rail transport. We are not even half a year away, and you have already had a double head-on collision with SNCB. You go from incident to incident, in what is gradually becoming an open war with the SNCB, who should be your most important partner.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u41	Minister, thank you for your answer. As long as health measures reduce the possibility of gathering in places where promiscuity is very great, the measures taken by SNCB must of course correspond to the situation and adapt more quickly to it. We do not want the "windows" measure, if I can call it that, to cause failures. In any case, we hope not to relive on 30 March and not to re-examine these images where the population no longer respected the barbaric gestures due to the chaos in some stations. For us, Mr. Minister, part of the solution also obviously involves resolving possible problems of consultation and communication with SNCB and its CEO. Finally, let us also recall that SNCB has high-quality staff and it must be able to work in a serene manner.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u42	Madam President, Minister, the third wave really strikes our hospitals. That is what you said yesterday during your visit to the university hospital in Ghent. Indeed, there as elsewhere in our country, from north to south, the intensive care services reserved for covid patients are saturated or almost saturated. The transfers are organized and the healthcare staff always respond, as it has been the case for a year, but it is hard. You saw it yesterday again. In intensive care, patients are younger than in the second wave, while deaths and hospitalizations in the elderly are decreasing. A light therefore in this period again extremely difficult for most of us: vaccination works. Minister, to fight this third wave, nothing new! Still the same weapons: barrier gestures, testing, tracing and isolation but also today vaccination. In addition to the PCR tests, we are finally expanding our testing strategy via antigen tests in companies but also via auto-tests in pharmacies. What about the companies that requested the commercialization of their antigenic tests as self-tests? When will they be available in a pharmacy? Will we have enough of these? Pharmacists will have to play a key role here, particularly in supporting citizens. What is planned with them in this framework? As for vaccination, we know that it is progressing. That's undeniable! Of course we always hope to go faster but we still depend on the deliveries of pharmaceutical companies as well. Could you take stock of the deliveries in the coming weeks today? Finally, we find that having involved hospitals in the vaccination of chronic patients has undoubtedly accelerated the process. With the arrival of the Johnson & Johnson vaccine, are you finally considering a greater involvement of general practitioners? It's a question that comes back because it's important.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u43	Mrs Zanchetta, you are absolutely right: the testing strategy is one of the key elements to defeat the virus. That is why we are adding two new lines of defence. First of all, it is a question of repeat screening within companies, both private and public, as well as public services. To this end, the government provides them, on a temporary basis, with rapid and free antigenic tests. Your questions are more specifically about self-tests. On 18 March, the AFMPS published the derogation procedure which allows rapid antigenic tests to be placed on the market as self-tests. It should be borne in mind that, so far in the European Union, there are no EC-labelled self-tests. As a result, tests that can be used in professional circuits should be used and a derogation should be provided to make them available in pharmacies. Since March 18, two complete files have been introduced and approved, while at least six other files have been submitted but are still incomplete. After obtaining the exemption, firms must condition auto-tests to be distributed to pharmacies, while being accompanied by instructions for use. As of 6 April, they will receive deliveries as orders are made. Pharmacists truly play a key role in this process. We really rely on them to inform their customers about the use of these self-tests and the follow-up to reserve for their results. In particular, they must indicate that in the case of a positive self-test, confirmation must be provided by means of a conventional PCR test to be performed in a testing centre or through a general practitioner. As regards the issue of two self-tests per week to the beneficiaries of the increased intervention, there is provision for an honorary grant for pharmacists. The moderator ticket will be limited to one euro per test, and the number of tests per household member per week. In collaboration with professional associations, specific information will be made available to pharmacists. With regard to vaccination, some 15% of Belgian adults have currently received at least one first dose. As a result, this campaign is progressing. On the basis of the latest information, we expect in the course of April approximately 1 700 000 doses of AstraZeneca, Pfizer and Johnson & Johnson vaccines, in addition to Moderna deliveries, for which I do not have figures. A total of 1,700,000 doses are therefore expected in the coming weeks. You asked a question about general practitioners. First of all, I would like to point out that general practitioners are currently playing a key role, because they have been asked to indicate who their patients have co-morbidities and are therefore part of the priority group for vaccination after the elderly. General practitioners therefore have an important responsibility. You obviously have questions about their even more active role as vaccinators. Since the Johnson & Johnson vaccine requires only one dose, it will be preferred for the vaccination of people who are more difficult to reach, such as those with graffiti, through home vaccination by mobile teams or by the general practitioner, who will therefore have an even more active role. I have always said that I was not opposed to assigning an additional role to general practitioners in later phases.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u44	Minister, your speaking time has largely expired. Could you conclude?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u45	We have asked the Higher Council of Health for an opinion on the course of the campaign. This opinion will inform us more.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u46	The subject is still extremely important, but I would ask you to try to respect the time allotted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u47	Minister, thank you for your answers. The efforts made over the next few weeks in the areas of testing and vaccination, in particular, will have to be colossal, as we understand it, but we must rise to this challenge in order to live up to the efforts demanded of citizens for too long, from the youngest to the oldest, from the students to the pensioners, from the workers to the people who have lost their jobs. We need to be up to date so that the goals set do not go away in smoke, but also to be up to the demands of the healthcare staff for too long. The holidays that are approaching and with them the festivities that surround them must not compromise all these efforts.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u48	Madam President, Minister, the corona crisis also has dramatic consequences for sex workers. The situation is so dramatic for some that they work in illegality, work without an emergency button, work in unhygienic conditions, work without safety, all in order to survive. The stories are poignant. We are talking about a group of 25,000 women, men and transpersons who are active as sex workers. They do not have a social and employment safety net and did not have it before the corona crisis. This makes them extremely vulnerable to malicious practices. Unfortunately, exploitation and sex work are still far too common. Payoke's also pulling the alarm today. Sex workers are now working in a legal vacuum, because in our country the current criminal law is standing in the way. Although paid sex is not prohibited, any third party, such as a sex house owner or an accountant, is. A policy of tolerance, as in Antwerp, is not enough to tackle sex work under duress. Together with my colleagues Tania De Jonge and Katja Gabriels, I called on the government to tackle the problem and not look away. Sex work for adults, without exploitation and without coercion, should be legally possible. This is the only way to tackle practices such as exploitation and trafficking in human beings at the root. Mr. Secretary, I have the following pertinent questions. Do you intend to give adult sex work of your own free choice a legal place? Will you amend the criminal law, in consultation with the organisations concerned? What more will you do against underage sex work (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u49	Sex worker is the oldest profession in the world. It exists and everyone knows it. Yet we are extremely hypocritical, because according to our Criminal Code sex work is punishable, but it is tolerated in reality. Some cities and municipalities even levy a tax on them. This approach is also dangerous, because because it is in a grey zone, the door is wide open to abuse, with pimps who make a lot of money on the hood of sex workers, street prostitutes who do not enjoy any protection and vulnerable people who are forced into prostitution. That's why I'm calling for an end to the hypocrisy. Clarity improves everyone, both the sex workers and the security services, who fight against exploitation. Let's name things as they are, sex work as a regular economic activity, provided they involve adults who voluntarily choose to do so. If a person wants to work as a sex worker, that is his or her personal decision, his or her right of decision, his or her freedom. That is why I will make a proposal to the Council of Ministers to amend the Criminal Code and decriminalise sex work so that sex workers can exercise their profession in a way that is self-evident to you and to me. They can hire an accountant, sign a contract with a bank and enjoy social protection. On the other hand, we will take very strict action against any form of abuse, exploitation, trafficking in human beings, child prostitution and forced sex work. Justice and police will fight criminal exploitation networks. We will soon adopt an action plan on trafficking in human beings with better protection for the victims and a harder approach to the perpetrators. We have an opportunity to take an historic step in our country, finally giving sex workers what they are entitled to, namely recognition and protection, and to stop the criminal vultures. I am counting on Parliament's support. I'm counting on you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u50	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am pleased to learn that the oldest profession in the world may have a chance to get a place in our society. Afterwards, we can also work on a real statute for the 25,000 people involved. There's another element. Decriminalisation allows you to shift your focus to the issues that really matter, namely a very strict approach to prostitution of minors, to sex under duress and to the smuggling of human beings associated with it. I share your opinion. We are therefore creating a better society. So thank you for your answer. Thank you for responding to our call. Thank you, too, for your commitment.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u51	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, polluted groundwater, poor air quality, fewer and fewer animals in local nature, the OECD report should not be more painful. The worst part is that none of us are afraid of that anymore. After all, we know that almost every Belgian in this country breathes unhealthy air. We also know that houses in different places in our country are beginning to rip due to the persistent drought. Yesterday we could wear our shorts because it was the warmest March day ever. That's nice, but the heat records in the summer are getting us into more trouble. I sometimes feel like we're a big snowball rolling down a hill, because the problems are only getting stronger and bigger. To those who think that environmental problems do not affect them, I say that their children breathe dust in the playground of the school. Their parents or grandparents spend the summer in a retirement home with a heat plan. After all, our country is not built to become the interior of Spain, but every day we move a little in that direction. Madam Minister, we need constructive solutions, in cooperation with the countries around us. It does not help that politics in this country is completely tied up in terms of climate problems. Moreover, the OECD warns us that this problem cannot be solved with several ministers. We know that ourselves, because every week we are discussing the corona crisis here, and we are constantly seeing that it is very difficult to deal with it with several ministers. This too is a health crisis, but also a biodiversity crisis, a food crisis, a housing crisis and an agricultural crisis. We need crisis management, clear climate policy for this country. Madam Minister, I know it is a great task, but I would like to hear from you how you are going to do it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u52	Madam President, Minister, these are exciting days for our children and our young people, because today or tomorrow they will receive their report on which they will be judged by their achievements over the past difficult weeks, in which they had to learn and perform in special circumstances. However, I am convinced that each of them will somehow shine. What a contradiction with the report that Belgium received yesterday from the OECD. Especially on the hottest March 31st since the beginning of the measurements, Belgium was given a number of serious insufficient climate policies in recent years. Before I was a Member of Parliament, I was a teacher, so I can imagine something about the conversation Belgium would have had when it got its report: "Hi Belgium, how do you think you did it and what do you think that's due?" The answer is: "You're not really doing very well when it comes to biodiversity, about greenhouse gas emissions that need to be reduced, about air and water quality. You are not at all on track to achieve your sustainable goals: you have taken steps, but evolution is insufficient." Actually, that's not a strange conversation, because the report tells us what we see every day. Every heat wave, every period of drought, every flood pushes us to the facts: we need to be much more careful with our natural resources and with climate change. However, we know that. How are we going to do that? The German economist Maja Göpel says that our climate goals are our next curves that we need to flatten. This is an image that we all unfortunately know very well, but which we also know will be achieved if we work together. Madam Minister, what levers do you see to achieve our climate goals and ensure that (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u53	Madam President, the report contains important comments. It underlines the need for transversal and proactive actions in an integrated approach at national level. Unfortunately, there are few surprises because the analyses and recommendations coincide with previous reports on the state of the environment and the analysis of the NEKP in the committee. I don't dispute any analysis in the report. This is a situation we inherited. It is important that we look to the future to be up to the challenges of this century. With regard to the future at federal level, the government has approved the draft federal plan for sustainable development, the first in more than ten years. This is now the subject of a public consultation. As you know, this is an integrated vision of our policy, a climate governance mechanism for the implementation of a federal climate policy and federal climate measures for the period 2021-2030 to reduce greenhouse gas emissions based on the policies and measures (PAMs) identified in the federal contribution to the NCCP and the actions announced in the government agreement for the development of a coherent package of federal adaptation measures. Many aspects will have to take into account the need to cooperate with all our partners and with the three regions in particular. Improving cooperation between all entities is at the heart of our coalition agreement, but that also applies to dialogue with society as a whole. This is, after all, a prerequisite for achieving the systemic change needed for a green and just transition. This was also a focus of the OECD. Belgium fully supports the European Action Plan for the circular economy and the new industrial strategy. A new federal action plan on circular economy will indeed be adopted. Product policy will be of the utmost importance, with emphasis on design for disassembly and re-use and high-quality recycling. The fight against premature ageing will also be a priority. As the OECD has pointed out, Belgium lacks common policy objectives for the circular economy. I will deal with this issue within the framework of the National Circular Economy Platform, as it is indeed important to achieve our ambitious objectives. Federal ministers support and promote the principle of One World, One Health, by putting health in the forefront of all its components. As far as air quality concerns are concerned, we support the strengthening of policies, measures and activities in the field of market surveillance of air pollutants from road transport and/or from engines and heaters at Belgian and European level. Last week, I welcomed the adoption of the European Strategy on Chemicals, which sets out an ambitious and proactive course for achieving sustainable chemistry. The development of products with greater respect for biodiversity, here and elsewhere, is essential for me. In addition to our commitments to the EU, our country has committed itself to combating deforestation through a task force that will propose concrete measures, including ambitious public-private partnerships and cooperation within the Benelux. I am pleased that Belgium, as recommended by the OECD, has joined the partnership of the Amsterdam Declaration. Finally, my final answer will be: we must and will bring it together.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u54	Madam Secretary, it is an important report with many recommendations. I think it's an important signal for our country. It's a good thing you're working on it. A lot of people are worried about the coming summer. Will heat records be broken? What do you say we spray our lawn? Are there gonna be any houses tearing up? The worries are increasing. You are right to say that together we will have to break this standstill. That takes a lot of political courage, but it is not everywhere today. Yet political courage is absolutely necessary to make progress so that we can make our country the best country in the world.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u55	Madam Secretary, you are right: we must look to the future. As policy makers, we have to ask ourselves every day whether we are doing enough to keep global warming below 1.5 degrees. If we do not do enough, it is not good for our citizens, their health and their environment. Last year, Europe increased its pace. With Belgium, we must participate constructively and proactively. This can be done if we work together with all the governments in this country, with local authorities and civil society, and if we also involve citizens. It is possible, if we invest in clean and affordable energy, if we invest in public transport and if we make our industry and our agriculture more sustainable. It is possible for us to draw up a fair and sustainable financial framework for this purpose. Madam Minister, together with you, I call for energy to be put into finding solutions, in cooperation so that sustainable choices become the logical choices, and so that next time we will have a wonderful report (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u56	Madam Minister, in order to complement the existing policy framework at European level, the Commission adopted, after its taxonomy regulation, an attitude of appointing a group of technical experts on sustainable financing to advise the Commission. This group of experts did not provide conclusive recommendations on nuclear energy, to which is referred indirectly in the report on taxonomy, in such a way that the Commission decided that a scientific service called the JRC – an internal service to the European Commission – would look very thoroughly and technically at all aspects which are not significant for human health in the context of nuclear power generation and the long-term management of radioactive waste. This report, which came out a little earlier than expected, says two fundamental things. The first is that, according to life-cycle impact studies, "the total impact on human health of radiological and non-radiological emissions from the nuclear energy chain is comparable to the human health impact of the marine wind production chain". Secondly, on the more radiological aspects of waste management, this group concludes: "For high-level radioactive waste and spent fuel, there is a broad consensus among the scientific, technological and regulatory communities that final storage in deep geological deposits is the most efficient and safest solution to ensure that there is no significant damage to human life and the environment during the required period". If I am well informed, the public consultation on the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2 will start very soon, as part of the consequences of the Constitutional Court's ruling in relation to the extension of these two plants. I would like to know how you read this 387-page report and what consequences or conclusions you draw for Belgium in connection with the production of nuclear energy and the landfilling of high-level radioactive waste. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u57	Mrs Marghem, thank you for your question. It is no longer time for plans to be drawn up but for them to be implemented. In this context, financial feasibility is the primary concern. Countries with high levels of nuclear energy want favourable taxonomy rules to give their projects a chance of financial survival. The report to which you refer is a report from the Joint Research Centre which has yet to be supplemented by other reports. Let us not mix research on the financing of new nuclear power plants with our Belgian situation! In our country, five of the seven nuclear reactors will be closed in all cases. They're too old. They have cracks and require unprofitable security investments of more than EUR 1 billion. The operator himself does not ask for their extension. The government is focusing on developing renewable energy and flexible capacity to ensure supply, affordability and sustainability. New nuclear power plants have never been a trail in our country. There's the price barrier. Without massive state support, new nuclear power plants are not profitable. Take the example of Hinkley Point in the United Kingdom. It has a guaranteed electricity price of £92.5 per megawatt hour (MWh) for 35 years. Our latest wind farms in the North Sea have a guaranteed price of 79 euros/MWh. Let us not forget the other challenges! What is the sustainability of a technology if we do not have an operational solution for nuclear waste? I would remind you that this waste is dangerous for more than a hundred thousand years, longer than the oldest structures on the planet. The next decade announces renewable energy. There will be more renewable energy than today. It's getting cheaper and cheaper. Our country has all the assets and our Belgian companies have a lot of expertise to make it an economic and social success.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u58	Madam Minister, I note that you are doing an ideological reading of this report that is personal to you. My question is much broader and much more technically neutral, since there is on the one hand the government agreement and the Belgian situation of nuclear reactors and on the other hand our electricity mix, the need for security of supply and the cost on the bills of households and businesses. These are fundamental elements that must be considered with a neutral technical eye in order to provide our country with sufficient electricity at an affordable price. That's the whole question. You're talking about reactors, you're saying we'll close five out of seven. That's your point of view in the government agreement, but the truth is that at the time you're making the assessment with the monitoring that the government agreement requires of you – and I haven't seen a line to date – we will have to make a crucial decision that will be based on the two fundamental reasons of security of supply and electricity bills, not ideology. I wanted to remind you. I think (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u59	Madam Minister, I would like to take this opportunity of your presence in our Chamber to wish you well as a gelukkige verjaardag.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u60	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mr Vermeersch, who refers to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u61	Madam President, while waiting impatiently for our colleagues, I shall begin. The draft law implements the cooperation agreement between the Federal State, the Flemish Community, the Flemish Region, the Walloon Region, the Brussels-Capital Region, the French Community and the German-speaking Community on the use of SURE, the European temporary support instrument for the mitigation of the risks of unemployment in emergency situations. On 5 February, the Council of State delivered its opinion on the cooperation agreement between the aforementioned entities. As a result, according to the bill's explanatory memorandum, the drafters of the cooperation agreement entered into a dialogue. In view of the power of the respective parliaments to ratify the Cooperation Agreement in any case and the need for rapid progress, it was agreed with all the parties concerned to continue the legislative process of ratification. This continuation of ratifications was agreed upon by all signatory entities, in the light of the urgent need for federated entities to be able to use the SURE instrument. However, two points made in the opinion of the Council of State deserve attention. Firstly, why is COCOF not involved in the cooperation agreement? It adopted the decree of 26 November 2020 granting special powers to the Collège de la Commission communautaire française in the context of the covid-19 pandemic, which allows, in particular, the management of the socio-economic effects of the pandemic within the framework of the powers of the Commission communautaire française and the institutions which depend on it. However, according to Article 1(2) of Regulation (EU) 2020/672, assistance must be intended primarily for the financing of partial unemployment schemes or similar measures aimed at protecting wage-earners and self-employed persons and thereby reducing the incidence of unemployment and loss of income and the financing of certain health-related measures in particular at the workplace. Accordingly, according to the Council of State, the Order of the Collège de la Commission communautaire française No 2020/2145 of 17 December 2020, amending Order No 2020/618 of the Collège de la Commission communautaire française of 11 June 2020 on the adoption of exceptional measures in favour of reception homes in the context of the covid-19 pandemic, could thus be considered as part of the Regulation's forecast. Why, then, has COCOF not been involved in this cooperation agreement? Secondly, in the case of means to be recovered from a signatory federated entity, the penultimate sentence of Article 5 of the Cooperation Agreement provides that such recovery may take the form of a deduction from the financial means to be transferred, under the law, to the federated entity concerned. It should be pointed out that the cooperation agreement under consideration cannot affect the amounts due to the Communities and Regions under the special law of 16 January 1989 on their financing. It is not for the federal authority to unilaterally modify the means allocated on the basis of this special law. Even where this is the case as a result of the cooperation agreement under examination, the Communities and Regions consent to this unilateral reduction in the financial resources which are automatically due to them under the special financing law. We note that the signatories of the Cooperation Agreement consider that Article 5 does not have a precedential jurisprudential value, but that is not the issue. This text, whose legal value in the federal legal arsenal will be that of a law, will modify in its application the principle of a special law – a norm that is legally superior. What a precedent we are about to create! However, despite these two fundamental remarks raised by the Council of State, the CDH – which does not wish to delay the implementation of the SURE programme – will vote in favour of it, but on the one hand with the feeling of cleanliness and legal certainty flouted and, on the other hand, regretting the oblivion of an essential French-speaking partner: the COCOF.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u62	Mr. Secretary, I apologize for my slight delay. However, this is a very important dossier. You know that all European debates require our special attention, both in committee and in plenary. Mr Van Bossuyt is also very much involved in the whole of the European debate. In politics there are pleasant and difficult debates. The difficult debates are usually summarized in two stages. There is the stage in which the rules of the game are agreed. In a second phase the game is played. The first stage is usually the most fun: agreeing the rules of the game. This is about the great ideological debates. What does everybody stand for? How can we ensure that the agreements are as precise and clear as possible, so that the rules of the game are determined? The second stage is then, once everything is established, to make the more real political decisions. What are we gonna do with that now? Where do we position ourselves, once one finds that perhaps not everything has gone as one wants? It sounds abstract, but I'm making it concrete. A few weeks ago, we had a debate here in the Chamber on the European Own Resources Decision. We have made it very clear that we have a number of very strong reservations in principle. This is mainly about establishing a number of parties that a form of European taxation needs to be developed, that European taxes should be placed on top of national and other taxes already in place, including in this country. As you know, we have made and are still making a very strong and fundamental objection to this. We are not in favour of this. To our great regret, we have not won that plea. The majority in this House apparently welcomes the introduction of new European taxes. I am very sorry about that. The rules of the game are laid down in this one, which means that we are now entering the second phase, the game itself that must be played within the framework as defined. We note that the European Union is now presenting a proposal allowing Member States to take out loans to part-finance their unemployment benefits. That is a special system and it is allocated EUR 100 billion at European level. Those are loans. There are both good points and criticisms. I'll start with the criticism, so I can end up positive. The whole ideological debate that we have had in the context of the European own resources decision and the criticism that has been expressed there continues and I will not repeat it. The first drawback is that a system of risk-sharing is being set up, of guarantee schemes for which we will pay a lot of money. This is Belgian tax money paid by people in Flanders, Wallonia and Brussels, and which will no longer be decided in this country, but will be decided at European level. That is a guarantee that also entails risks for us. That's the second downside. Thirdly, it is obvious for which European Member States this system has been set up, especially for the southern European Member States. I've been looking at some statistics. When we look at who subscribes to this SURE mechanism, we see that Belgium, for example, does so and that it gives us an advantage of 2.4 % when we look at the interest savings that we do with it. This generates an advantage of 2.4 % for our budget. Compared to what the other countries receive, that is actually not a huge advantage. Greece, for example, benefits from this new European system of 9.7 %. That's four times more than for Belgium. For Greece, this means saving EUR 264 million. For Spain, this is 7.7%, a saving of 850 million euros and Italy saves 2.8 billion euros with this system. In summing up and passing over the list, it can be seen that savings and benefits are mainly situated in a number of countries in the south of Europe. It is also very striking which countries do not use the system. Germany is nowhere to be seen; Finland is not visible; Denmark is not present in the statistics; the Netherlands is not present in the same way as Austria. Sweden also does not call on it. All Northern European countries decide not to sign in to the project. It is a pity, in itself, that we do not belong to that group. That should be the group with which we should be most associated within the European Union, namely the Union of Northern Member States within the European Union. On the negative points, there is a fundamental objection to a system set up in a transfer logic rather than in the benefit of Northern European countries. However, I am not concealing the fact that there is a slight budgetary advantage which we can rely on. This is an immediate first small advantage, namely that we are making budgetary profits. For the rest, I see three other points which give rise to a slightly more positive opinion. Firstly, we are talking about loans and not about gifts. It is therefore a question of money that will have to be repaid, even if it is a system of guarantee. In principle, however, we are talking about loans, which is an important difference. Secondly, there is some subsidiary logic in the model. It is not true that the European Union will pay unemployment benefits directly. It is the Member States that will have to do so. The powers in this area remain unchanged. This means in our country, in Belgium, that Flanders remains competent, for example, for activation policy and that the federal government remains competent for the benefit policy. That is why we are having a debate here today, because we need a cooperation agreement on this. It is not true, however, that the European Union will intervene directly on Flemish powers and not on federal powers. So there is still some notion of subsidiarity in the model. Thirdly, there is still a partial confederalism acquired in the system, because initially the Länder or the Member States of the European Union remain responsible for the repayment of the loans. So it's a nuanced story. We do not really want the system, because it gives a number of ideological objections on the other hand and a more pragmatic, more realistic, also more merciful attitude. If the game still has to be played, why shouldn't we play along? If we have to accept the disadvantages, why not accept the benefits? If all the elements in this dossier are brought together, this translates into abstinence for the N-VA Group. We are not very satisfied ideologically, but we note that a number of benefits can be achieved. Then the West Fleming in me says that it might not hurt to think of a little mercantile. This morning we had a Community debate here. Here too, there is some Community axis. This system will be mainly used in Belgium by the federal government and by Flanders. It is very remarkable that the French-speaking authorities actually have a lot less recourse to this system. This system will thus be more in favour of Flanders, for example, to pay corona nuisance premiums, to pay compensation premiums, to further finance support premiums, albeit in a loan logic. So our voting position has not changed in relation to the committee. We continue to maintain our reservations of principle, but are open to not completely excluding a mercantile approach.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u63	Madam President, I was a little late to report, which was a misunderstanding. I'm trying to fix that. SURE is yet another new fund from the European Commission. It wants to raise EUR 100 billion on the capital market and Belgium must also guarantee this. That is what we have done here in Parliament in the meantime. Belgium will guarantee the European Union and other Member States in the framework of SURE. That is very far-reaching and far-reaching. The provisions of SURE show that financial risks do not end up in the European Union's budget, but in those of the Member States. On top of that, one Member State must guarantee not only its own share, but also, where appropriate, the share of other Member States, if they cannot meet their obligations. The possible financial consequences, including for Belgium, can therefore be particularly significant. Moreover, the European Recovery Fund has a similar reasoning. Article 125 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union contains a so-called no bail-out clause. On this basis, Member States cannot be held liable for the commitments of another Member State and cannot accept those commitments. However, the mutual guarantee, including the European Recovery Fund, but also here at SURE, is a major exception. The European treaties are therefore being pushed aside, but there is no cock for that, not even in Parliament. As I said this morning, Germany seemed to join last week's 20 Member States, including Belgium, which already gave its blessing to the own resources decision. However, the Constitutional Court intervened in the meantime. The Court in Karlsruhe wants to examine first the objections of opponents, including members of our sister party Alternative für Deutschland. It says, like the Flemish interest, that the European Restoration Fund, as well as SURE, is opening the door to common European debts, and the European treaties simply do not allow that. This party is also a shining example for us in Europe by resisting it. But there's more. Based on the state guarantees of the 27 European countries, the SURE Fund will borrow money on the financial markets and lend it back to countries that ask for it. That principle is also included in the cooperation agreement. In fact, SURE spends some sort of Eurobonds, coronabons, because all European countries together guarantee government loans. In this respect, too, the corona crisis is being abused. These European bonds, of course, do not come to fight corona, but rather to stabilise the euro area. We reject any attempt to use the corona crisis to promote ever closer integration into the euro area, through mutual debt security. Normally, the European Commission can borrow up to EUR 60 billion on the financial markets itself. But then another EUR 100 billion was added through SURE, through the cooperation agreement. Eventually, there is also EUR 750 billion through the European Recovery Fund. First, EUR 60 billion, then EUR 100 billion and now EUR 750 billion, which has already been approved here in Belgium. It should be clear to the Minister by now. As far as we are concerned, he can also take this message with him to Ecofin in Europe: give a finger to the European Union, then the European Union will finally take a whole arm. SURE is also a first step towards European social security. These EUR 100 billion will mainly be spent on unemployment benefits in Spain and Italy, two countries which have nevertheless fallen into difficult financial difficulties. Spain has already been promised a loan of at least EUR 15 billion. Italy wants at least EUR 20 billion from the fund. In this way, the European express train is moving very fast. We still have to approve the cooperation agreement here, but most of the money has already been distributed in the meantime in order to develop a European social security system. If Corona and the purchase of vaccines have shown anything, then it is that the European Union is not part of the solution but is the cause of many problems. Of course, the key to the recovery of our economy lies with the Member States themselves. That proves the many corona measures that we have voted with the Flemish interest. The European Union has not only reacted far too late to the corona crisis, but the recipes that the European elite is presenting today are also new wines in old sacks: investment funds, guarantee funds, corona funds, a recovery fund with billions of grants and loans, the package of the euro group with SURE, the co-vid package of the ESM, the EIB and all the other abbreviations they continue to come up with in the European Union. In the meantime, the European Union has become a specialist in repacking old ideas. The long-standing hopes of the European elite for joint debt and own taxes are therefore intended to push through and introduce them under the guise of corona. We cannot emphasise this enough here. The position of the N-VA is also striking. Yesterday, the N-VA voted for the same cooperation agreement in the Flemish Parliament and will abstain from exactly the same agreement in this House. I was even more stunned when I read a report on the discussion in Flemish Parliament, because I also followed it. Minister Diependaele said: "This gives the European Commission something better than the conditions currently applicable to Flanders, i.e. 20 to 30 basis points cheaper than the Flemish government that can finance itself." Then I wonder why Flanders gets in, if it doesn't make much difference? There is indeed a precedent value. You have clearly substantiated and explained this, Mr Loones. Then Diependaele said: "The Minister assures that there is no precedent value."NNext, there is indeed a threefold precedent value. Firstly, since the recovery fund and SURE, Europe has been able to build its own debt mountain for the first time. Secondly, SURE is the first step towards European social security. In Flanders, we also guarantee unemployment benefits up to Spain and Italy. Thirdly, with SURE we guarantee the European Union, but also the other Member States. This guarantee also has an important precedent value in this design. That is why we are asking questions about the way in which the vote is taken. It is clear to us that we will not support the draft.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u64	Madam President, the Flemish Interest likes to excel in opposition to the opposition, each to its style and approach, but I would like to make two points. Firstly, it is rather surprising that the Flemish Interest has turned its cart. In committee, you abstained, as we did, but apparently you were flogged back by your group, Mr Vermeersch. It is extraordinary that you change your voting behaviour. Secondly, there is indeed a difference between your party and mine. We also do politics in an ideological way, but at the same time we are not naive. Your party seems to think that we should have the disadvantage, but should not take advantage of the advantage. You seem to be in front of a party that thinks that Flanders can pay, but that we should not also benefit from an existing arrangement. That's a difference. We believe that the debate on the rules of the game should be held vigorously, but we are not going to stand by when Flanders can do an advantage. You prefer to stand aside: Flanders can benefit from this, but you do not want to use it. You would prefer our money to be used only by Greece, Spain and Italy and Flanders not to use it. That's the difference.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u65	Mr Loones, allow me to respond briefly, because I think we should be intellectually honest. Yesterday there was a vote in the Flemish Parliament on exactly the same thing. With the fact that there is now a completely different vote, I am simply asking questions. That's okay, isn't it? In the committee, the Minister for Finance says that there is no precedent value, while everyone who knows the file knows that there is a threefold precedent value to what is before us. I therefore believe that this should be corrected and appointed. It is not a game of opposition to opposition, but of intellectual honesty. It may be appointed that there should be a different vote here than in the Flemish Parliament. Some of the things that are said are not entirely correct, no more, no less. This morning, moreover, I did the opposite. This morning I said that Flanders has its pennies in order better than the rest of the country. If we can throw flowers at the Flemish Minister of Finance, we will do so, but if things are misinterpreted, we will say so as well. That is a matter of substance. In Parliament, matters can be properly referred to.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u66	Madam President, I note that an ideological debate is taking place in the discussion on SURE, which is of course not surprising in itself, since the discussion indeed has some ideological content and also revolves around the question of what role we want to give to Europe. Sometimes Europe is highlighted very negatively, but I think SURE is an example of a project of cooperation and solidarity in Europe. This method, the fund set up, works. We see this very clearly by the fact that we can live cheaply by working together and thus moving forward. Mr Loones, that is indeed the pragmatic side to look at this story. It is true that we borrow cheaper from the position of Europe than when Belgium or one of the Länder borrows from our country. Mrs Matz, I have two brief answers to your questions. Why is the COCOF not involved in this cooperation agreement? Well, we have chosen to ask each region and every possible entity in our country to sign in more. On behalf of the COCOF, neither my cabinet nor the Agency have been asked to obtain funds from the SURE programme. As a result, the COCOF is not involved in the cooperation agreement either. The other Länder have done so. Flanders for EUR 1.2 billion, the Walloon Region for almost EUR 600 million, the Brussels-Capital Region for EUR 95 million, the French-speaking Community for EUR 86 million, the German-speaking Community for EUR 13 million and the Federal State for EUR 6.2 billion. A total of more than EUR 8 billion has been raised, at a very advantageous interest rate. But, as I said, COCOF's question did not come. That is why it has not been included in the cooperation agreement. You asked a question about the refund. That is, of course, a remark made by the Council of State and to which we have made a very clear reference in committee. That is what we agreed with the various signatories to the cooperation agreement. We have actually indicated that this has no legal value. The balance we had to make was: do we solve this problem in detail, or are we moving forward quickly in order to be able to collect these resources effectively? Without this cooperation agreement, the Agency will not be able to work and we will not be able to get these resources. I believe that we must count on every state and every entity to repay its share of the loan. That's the deal we made. This project, this cooperation agreement and the use of SURE is a very good example of the federalism of cooperation in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u67	Minister, it is indeed a good thing that cooperation is carried out on the basis of responsibility. That is the best guarantee to achieve better agreements. You say that this is a very good proposal because, I quote, 'we can enjoy a very advantageous rate'. It's not very economical anyway. The figures show that this model is mainly an advantage for the countries of southern Europe. In Italy it is 13% cheaper, in Greece and Spain it is around 10% cheaper. For us, that's only 2%. This instrument has therefore been set up for other countries, not for us. In addition, the federal government would have signed up for a lot of extra money, if that were really at such a very advantageous rate. However, you did not do that. You also said in committee why you did not do that. You said that we do have some advantage, but we don't have a huge advantage either. You are more of a risk-spreading policy, simply applying a diversification of federal debt and debt-to-GDP financing projects. So the risk can be spread out a bit. We are taking advantage of this, indeed, and that explains our abstention. However, it would not be correct to say that this is really very beneficial for us. It is for other countries, but not for us.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u68	Minister, if there were a fake alarm in this Chamber, it would certainly have gone off during your speech. You say we can borrow cheaper thanks to SURE. That's absolutely fake news. There's hardly any difference. This was also literally appointed by Mr Diependaele in committee in the Flemish Parliament. There is hardly a difference of 20 basis points. That's negligible. There is, of course, a huge price on the other hand. The price we will pay is that European debt will be built up from now on. In addition, there is a guarantee vis-à-vis other Member States, debt-sick countries that are even more guilty than Belgium, such as Spain and Italy. Finally, there is an impetus for a European social security system. Flemish people now guarantee unemployment benefits up to Spain and Italy. That is, of course, an unacceptable price for a few basis points difference. This is a price that the Flemish Interest Group would never want to pay.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u69	Madam President, where will it end? After Wallonia, Europe! Soon he will come after the whole world!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u70	Madam President, the following may be of interest to a number of Members. I have just heard that the Flemish Interest Group will abstain. So here we have a huge critical argument that everything is bad, ideological and detestable, that Flemings have to pay for Greece, that there is basically opposition to everything and that Mr Diependaele is half a robber. This translates into a abstention for the Flemish interest, for which there are, by the way, good arguments. After all, we are abstaining. Mr Vermeersch, in that case it might be good to bring your speech more into line with your voting behaviour.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u71	Thank you very much, Mr Vermeersch. I like to turn the story around at times like this. I always wonder what your reaction would be if we were to borrow such amounts on the market, where they are twenty basis points more expensive than what we are borrowing today. In that case, you'd be yelling that we're borrowing too much. What we are doing now is to ensure that we spread our risks. I fully agree with you on that point, Mr Loones. In this way, however, we try to keep the cost of our loans as low as possible. We're borrowing cheaper than what the federal state is borrowing today. We must certainly take that advantage with us.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u72	Madam President, sometimes the N-VA does not know what wood arrows are made of. First, we are accused of changing our voting behaviour. We are now being accused of keeping our votes straight. The essence is that we are against the ideological principle. It was also endorsed by the Minister that this was a substantive statement. Ideologically, we are against the principle of SURE. We are talking about a cooperation agreement and a specific division. No distribution key has been agreed, which has also emerged clearly in committee. It is the Länder that have indicated which part of the cake they want. Flanders asked for EUR 1 billion and, as I understand it, also received EUR 1 billion. However, in other cooperation agreements on Europe, Flanders is systematically disadvantaged compared to the other Länder. In this case this is absolutely not the case given the bottom-up benadring. Ideologically and in terms of content, we have voted against both the own resources decision and the recovery fund and SURE. After all, we are against it. Feel free to look into Parliament's documents. On 15 July 2020, we voted on the guarantee from Belgium for SURE. We voted against, because in that case one country guarantees the other countries. Feel free to look into the documents of the Chamber. We are the only party that votes consistently in substance. It is the N-VA who votes in favour in the Flemish Parliament and abstains here. By the way, you voted in favour of the own resources decision in the European Parliament, you abstained from any comment in the Flemish Parliament and voted against it in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u73	On the one hand Flemish interest, on the other hand Flemish interest. Basically a huge commentary and therefore a abstention. It's been noted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u74	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u75	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1827/1) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1827/1) The bill has two articles. The draft law has two articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u76	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u77	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u78	Madam President, I have opted for the summary version of this report. I hope he'll be fine. To sum up, in the context of the health crisis we are experiencing, and in order to halt the continued spread of the virus and its variants, the Consultation Committee has been entrusted with the task of taking concerted action. In order to better enforce these measures, a transfer of data to federated entities, local authorities and police services is essential. On 22 January, the Consultation Committee invited the Minister of Justice and the Minister of the Interior to discuss, in consultation with the competent authorities, how to optimize the flow of information to the police and judicial authorities. The Ministers of Justice, the Interior and Public Health outlined the articles of the Cooperation Agreement. Following this introductory presentation, a discussion took place. The following members took the floor: Ms. Matz, Ms. Thibaut, Ms. De Wit, Ms. Gilson, Ms. Bury, Mr. D'Haese, Mr. Boukili and Mr. From Caluwe. The three ministers then responded to the various questions posed. The topics discussed during the discussion included how to transmit passenger data to local and police authorities; how long the passenger data should be kept and how to erase them; the role of the Information Security Committee; the prevention and enforcement aspects of quarantine monitoring and testing; and the role of federated entities. Following the discussion, the articles were successively adopted. The bill as a whole was passed by a nominative vote of 14 votes with 2 abstentions. The result of the roll-call vote is as follows. In favour: Mr. D'Haese, Ms. De Wit and Ms. Van Vaerenbergh (N-VA); Ms. Hugon, Ms. Thibaut and Mr. Van Hecke (Ecolo-Groen); Mr. Aouasti, Ms. Özlem and myself (PS); Mr. Goffin and Ms. Gilson (MR); Mr. Geens (CD&V); Mr. De Caluwé (Open VLD); Mr. Segers (sp.a). Abstaining: Ms. Bury (Vlaams Belang) and Mr. Boukili (PVDA-PTB). No one voted against it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u79	Mrs Zanchetta, thank you for this brief report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u80	Madam President, Minister, Minister, this text aims to introduce a massive processing of sensitive data of citizens in the form of the transfer to local authorities and the police of data on the PLF forms and data on compulsory testing. The aim is to ensure that this test is carried out properly and that quarantine monitoring is carried out. This text poses a problem with regard to the principle of legality. I am bouncing here on the recent news that has been extensively discussed this afternoon. The Brussels Court of First Instance ruled that the measures taken by ministerial order were illegal. In particular, these quarantine and testing measures are mandatory when a red zone returns. The cooperation agreement that we are being asked to vote on today is aimed at ensuring compliance with these measures. But can such transfers of data to ensure compliance with measures which have been found unlawful by a court be carried out with full knowledge of the facts? Is the government prepared to assume the risk of illegally transferring data if the judgement is upheld on appeal? Finally, my group regrets once again a repressive approach for which this text is based. This is not a question of challenging the measures as a whole. I believe that measures must be put in place and that they must be respected. Measures are needed to combat coronavirus, support measures, investments in health care, measures to increase citizens' acceptance and not just sanction measures. Have we ever wondered in this Parliament why people do not respect the quarantine to determine what the causes are and whether we can act on these causes? Don't you think that this may be related to the 30% drop in income for those who have to undergo about 40 years of age? My group has long advocated that quarantine workers should receive 100% of their wages. This is an example of a measure that would allow people to join. We have problems with the logic of this proposal. That is why we will abstain.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u81	Madam President, Minister, Minister, we already had the opportunity to discuss this cooperation agreement extensively a few days ago. I tell you again that the form is a problem, even though I know that you will reply that it is exceptional to have been able to conclude it in six weeks. But this cooperation agreement is far too late, of course, in relation to measures restricting freedom of movement. He should've come before Christmas. This makes accession difficult and the situation is complicated with regard to the legal basis. None of the three ministers present – since Minister Vandenbroucke was also present at our work – replied about the legal basis on which this cooperation agreement is based. I am not a monomaniac, I assure you, but 48 hours later, a court reported that there was not a strong enough legal basis to take a whole series of measures restricting freedom. I think the legal basis is essential in a case like this. I remind you that, according to the Council of State, we cannot take a decree as a legal basis. It's not a strong enough legal basis. You seem to justify yourself by saying that the international health regulation signed in Geneva on 23 May 2005 is a sufficient legal basis for this PLF. I would like to ask you both again about the legal doubts I have about this. Although this regulation was published in the Belgian Moniteur, it has never been the subject of parliamentary assent, whereas it is required by Article 167 of the Constitution, which provides that treaties have effect only after having received the consent of the House of Representatives. Under no circumstances, therefore, can he create obligations for himself in the Belgian leadership. The wording of article 23 does not impose any obligation on States parties. He simply said that a State party "may, for public health purposes, upon arrival and departure, question travellers about". In doing so, the regulation does not seem to impose an obligation but an option. A legal act of an appropriate level is therefore required in the domestic legal order in order to establish an obligation in this regard. I can provide you, as I said in committee, with French doctrine in this regard. It means that it is not a sufficient act and that it is not in the domestic legal order by itself. As such, for our cooperation agreement, it cannot be a sufficient legal basis. I would like to stress that it is on this point in particular that the Court in Brussels ruled yesterday. It was deplored that you did not submit to the Council of State the question of whether, in substance, this regulation is sufficient to provide a legal basis. The Council of State told you, in any case, that it was not a ministerial decree. We don't know if that's enough here. The Council of State does not say so. This is a legal problem of which some have not solved, I have heard. As a legalist, as a democrat, as a lawyer, I am particularly careful, with my group, when measures are restrictive. We must establish this cooperation agreement on a solid legal basis; in our view, this is not the case at present on the basis of the WHO regulation. We also need to know that these measures will at some point allow our citizens to travel again; that is why it is also important. That is in summary what I wanted to say on the basis that we must take. I would also like to reiterate that this cooperation agreement seems to be unloading itself quite well on the federated entities and, in particular, on the municipalities, on the local authorities that have a lot of work to do in this pandemic. You will probably tell me that this is the case of the federated entities and these communes. However, I would like to point out that it is to them that we owe a great deal in crisis management. The mayors, the municipal colleges and councils, the communal services and the police are mobilized in this crisis. We're asking them a lot. Therefore, it is also important, to ask them these things, that the legal basis be strong and robust. I would therefore like to ask you again about the fragility – in our view – of this regulation of the World Health Organization (WHO), so that you can reassure me from a legal point of view and make it clear to me that this is a sufficiently solid legal basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u82	I'm actually glad to be able to speak a little later. This was also the case in committee: we were given an hour and a half on Monday afternoon for this draft bill to discuss it with the message that it would be discussed in all parliaments this week and voted on it. There was even no answer to Mrs Matz's very good speech on the treaty as a legal basis. This will certainly give rise to many disputes before the courts. I thought the Minister would have learned his lesson by now, especially after what has appeared in the newspapers in recent days. But no, they're just making the same mistake here. It is simply not possible for an initiative on the processing of personal data to be pushed down our throats so quickly in the various committees and now in plenary. We stand for fulfilled facts. We must agree to that. There was only a discussion in the Justice Commission, without experts or civil society taking part in hearings. Moreover, in view of the short processing period, several comments by the Council of State, the Data Protection Authority and the Supervisory Body on the police information were simply not processed. Is the role of the GDPR Information Security Committee consistent, was a question put by Mr D'Haese, who is not here today? Should that committee confine itself to defining the technical modalities? Is the transfer of data to third parties, since it does not itself have a policy margin to authorise it, GDPR compliant? I listened very carefully on Monday, but I did not get any answers to all these questions. That worries me. That is why we will abstain in the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u83	Madam President, as has been said, this cooperation agreement aims to ensure better compliance with the quarantine or mandatory screening test, with the transmission of the data collected through the famous Passenger Locator Form (PLF), initially to the federated entities, and then to the local authorities and the police services. In terms of public health and health risk management, this cooperation agreement obviously has its full meaning. However, the processing of citizens' personal data in the context of the fight against coronavirus continues to raise questions, like the first cooperation agreement, which dealt with the monitoring of contacts and which was the subject of intense debate at the time. Your government has been repeatedly questioned by civil society and the constitutionalists who have expressed to you their fears about the right to privacy which, despite its consecration to Article 22 of our Constitution, is more than ever mistreated or even hindered. My colleague François De Smet has recently asked your colleague, Secretary of State Mathieu Michel, about attested abuses in this area, whether it is the larval regionalisation of data protection by the Flemish government, the use of the Doclr platform for vaccination calls, the sinister Putting Data at the Center project or the subcontracting by the National Office of Social Security (ONSS) of workers' data. Each time, the answers were evasive, giving the impression that the rules on the protection of personal data are now in the midst of a weakening that is dangerous for our fundamental freedoms. In this respect, have honesty, dear colleague, to acknowledge that the relevant remarks and the State Council and the Data Protection Authority give rise to some discomfort in terms of defining concepts, delay in the retention of data, decision-making, lack of regulations as a basis for data processing, as well as delegation of powers to the very controversial Information Security Committee. Both the Council of State and the Data Protection Authority have shown that the principle of legality is not fully fulfilled by this cooperation agreement. It is sufficient to refer to the principle of purpose – i.e., "to combat the spread of covid, to ensure the tracing and tracking of contacts" – to understand the extent to which it is worded too broadly. Too many aspects relating to the collection, processing and even sharing of data reported under LFPs remain unclear. So I have only one question to ask you, Madam and Mr.Minister: does the end justify the means? The fight against covid must, of course, require our energy for all, but by means of safe legal beacons. It must be noted, however, that the cooperation agreement does not offer this essential legal certainty. That is why my party will abstain from this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u84	Ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to repeat the debate we have had in committee. As far as the Brussels court order is concerned, I have the impression that some of you are drawing conclusions that are not. Mr. Boukili, you say that the measures are set aside by the order. Not at all! The order tells the government that a legal basis for the ministerial order is required not later than 30 days, under penalty. The measures are not cancelled – nor will they be cancelled after April 30 – on the basis of this order. The fact of saying that the whole cooperation agreement falls into the water... Honestly, those reasonings don't make any sense. What is the legal basis for this cooperation agreement? This cooperation agreement is equivalent, in the hierarchy of legal norms, to a law. According to the established jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court, the law must lay down the essential elements of data transfer. That is precisely what the cooperation agreement does, Mrs Matz. This cooperation agreement therefore provides a legal basis for the transfer of the data in question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u85	Minister, I said that the court called into question the legality of the measures. It is not based on the substance of the measures, but on how these measures have been taken, i.e. by ministerial decree. I asked you a question. In view of the court's order on the legality of these measures, on the manner in which they were taken, is it appropriate today to discuss a law that will have an action on measures forming part of that ministerial order? That's a question I'm asking you. Do you take the risk of introducing a law on measures that are challenged by the courts? I read the judgment. It calls into question the legal basis of these measures. Or neither the judge nor the press understood!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u86	The court order appealed against a ministerial order. The question is whether there is a legal basis. This is the debate. But here, a law is adopted because a cooperation agreement is equivalent to a law. We're here in Parliament with the parliamentarians. We shall vote soon, hopefully. We cannot say that there is no parliamentary debate! There's one at the moment I'm talking to you! It's different from a royal decree. Nature is quite different. I would also like to add what the Council of State has explicitly said. I apologize for having to quote it in Dutch. "The federal government may take action in the fight against the pandemic in the framework of its residual powers, including civil protection, civil security and general police. The Federal Government is also responsible for the control of external borders, which means that access to the territory may be refused because of the presence or threat of infectious diseases." With regard to the opinions of the Council of State, the Data Protection Authority and the COC, we have responded well. We have taken these remarks into account in the vast majority and for those which we have not taken into account, we have explained in the memorie van toelichting. We worked quickly, of course, but we did so in a substantial way. We have introduced this cooperation agreement with the other five governments of that country. We have discussed this in the Consultation Committee on several occasions. Since the beginning of this week, the various governments and parliaments – except the Brussels parliament – have agreed. Mrs Rohonyi asked about proportionality. Here too, we have treated quarantine measures and testing differently. For testing, some data go directly to the police, while with the quarantine, it's cascade. We have taken proportionality into account. There were trips during the Christmas holidays. If a quarter of people don't get tested, what do you want us to do? We can't let them bring the virus back, we need the authorities to be able to intervene. First of all in a preventive way, that is, by calling people and then with the testing, Mr. Boukili. If a person refuses to test, this is tantamount to a refusal to wear a mask. If the rules are not respected, I think that a fine might ultimately be appropriate. If you believe that the fight against the pandemic is done without a fine, without a record, you are in a completely different world.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u87	Madam President, with regard to Mrs Matz's question, there is a legal basis: Article 23 of the International Health Regulations. It was transposed into Belgian law and published in the Monitor on 18 June 2007. This is the legal basis for this cooperation agreement. I have two further comments to make. As the Minister of Justice has said, all the comments made by the Council of State, the Data Protection Authority and the COC have been taken into account. Moreover, we have reached an agreement with all the governments of the country, not just on the basis of a text, but on the basis of the genuine conviction that this cooperation agreement is necessary to combat the pandemic. It must be the final part of the control measures. After all, we have these rules because we believe they are necessary and enforcement is the final element. The Information Security Committee is regulated by law and this cooperation agreement is also without prejudice to its legal role. There is therefore no policy margin, the only thing that committee will do is to authorise the communication of data for the purposes of the existing legislation, of course on the basis of the principle of proportionality. If one suggests that we are going beyond what Parliament had previously provided for by law, it is contradicted by texts as they stand today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u88	Madam President, I would like to make a little clarification. Minister, if each time you distort my remarks with so much panache, it will not enrich the debate. I did not say that there should be no sanction at all. You say that 25% of people don't respect quarantine. I was asking why. Why don't they do it? The solution would be for everyone to respect the rules. The question must therefore be asked. Wouldn't it be because they're afraid of losing 30% of their salary? If wages were guaranteed at 100%, wouldn't people be more willing to quarantine themselves? Why are the rules not being respected? Has this question been asked in this Parliament? You say that at some point they must be punished. But before sanctioning them, have all the necessary conditions been put in place to ensure that the measures are respected, followed up and that there is public support? That's the question!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u89	Madam President, I am very interrogative. I hear the Minister of Justice telling me that the legal basis is the cooperation agreement, while the minister tells me that no, the legal basis is the WHO regulation. Minister, why do you use a page of explanatory memorandum in your bill to say that the legal basis is the WHO regulation if you tell me that this is the cooperation agreement itself? No! There is a need for a legal basis for the cooperation agreement in which a number of things are contained. The answer that the minister gives me seems to me to be more legally valid, except that, as I said to you, although it was published in the Monitor, it did not receive the consent of the assemblies. Therefore, according to article 167 of the Constitution, it is not a law in the legal sense of the term. Madam Minister, we therefore have a difference of opinion. I continue to believe that this legal basis is not a sufficient legal basis because this regulation has not become a law. But it is true that I am a little disturbed, Mr Minister, to hear you say that, basically, the cooperation agreement itself is the legal basis for the cooperation agreement. Why do you devote an entire page of your presentation to explaining that it is, in fact, the international health regulation that is? I believe that we will not resolve this dispute, in any case on the legal value. But we continue to think that, somewhere – I apologize for a bit trivial – you have once been given an insufficient legal basis to take action. You shouldn't have a second time, with a legal basis that's not strong enough. That's what I wanted to conclude; because one can be wrong once, but not persist.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u90	Madam President, Minister, I would still like my remarks not to be caricatured. In fact, I think you have confused my questions, which were more about the principle of legality, with those put by Mr Boukili, which were rather about the principle of proportionality. Under no circumstances do I plead for a lack of follow-up with regard to persons returning from travel. These people must of course comply with the rules and must be able to be tested and quarantined. What I pointed out was that the comments made by the Council of State and the Data Protection Authority were not followed. I have one more example for you, which concerns the definition of the PLF. The personal data to be claimed are not exhaustively listed anywhere in the regulation. The content of the form, as available on the FPS Foreign Affairs website, is therefore subject to change at any time. It's a legal uncertainty that you're not responding to. This is another example of legitimate fears that have been raised and that have not been taken into account. That was really what I wanted to put my finger on. Unfortunately, I still have no answers to these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u91	Mrs Matz, you asked a question about the legal basis. The transfer of data is now based on the cooperation agreement. In addition, my colleague from the Interior replied about the famous PLF, which is based on article 23 of the International Health Regulations published by the Belgian Monitor in 2007. These elements should not be confused. Mr Boukili, you propose that people who can afford to travel be paid 100% during their quarantine. Is that your proposal? You're telling me that people won't respect quarantine because they're going to lose money. Mr Boukili, this measure in favour of someone who has the financial means to travel – which is strongly not recommended by the government – I call it a "class justice"! That's class justice! The ordinary man who can't travel is in quarantine and enjoying temporary unemployment, but from someone who travels, you say we have to pay him 100%. That's the class justice of this communist. In the meantime, we know that. We know how things turned out in those other countries. That is what you stand for, but that is not what we stand for.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u92	It's amazing, Minister, to see you get carried away in such a way! And you accuse me of class justice! While I have asked you many questions in the Committee on Justice. All you have to do is go to them and see who's on the side of class justice. Minister, you're talking about people who have money and who go on a trip. Do you not know anyone who travels for family reasons, to visit a family member who is ill, or for work reasons? Don't you know these people? Do they not have the right to wonder whether or not they will suffer a loss of wages? What I am asking you here is: do you accompany the measures that you put in place, in your policy, with support measures, measures to put in place logistics to ensure that these measures are followed and respected? When there is a refusal to comply with the measures, is the question raised: is not the fault on the part of the government that has not put the means necessary to ensure that these measures are respected? I take the example of vaccination. When a vaccination centre opens but the summonses are not sent, who is the fault? People who don't want to get vaccinated? No, it is the fault of the government that does not send the summonses! Do you ask yourself these questions, when you impose sanctions backed up by measures? Frankly, you're kicking me "those who go on a trip have money." You're disconnected from reality. Don't you know anyone who travels to visit a sick or dying person, especially at this time? Does this one have to be punished through his salary if he gets quarantined? You never ask yourself the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u93	Minister, thank you for your honesty. You have shown, once again here, the liberal vision that is yours. On Monday, the workers of that country stopped. We visited dozens and dozens of strike pickets. Do you know what was coming out, minister? These people are asking for respect, because they are the ones running the country. And you, today, dare say here that someone, whose means you will already tighten by giving him 70% unemployment, would not have the right to go on vacation! But who do you think you are, Minister? We've been living with the pandemic for a year. You have not lost a franc, and you come to give advice, and to make a judgment of value on these workers! Yes, I hope that there are still workers in this country who, although they earn 70% of their wages, will still have a bit of a right to breathe. But thank you: at least your liberal view on the issue is clear!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u94	Minister, I would like to stress two points which I believe are essential. First of all, I think that you should not, and you probably know it at the bottom of yourself, fall into shortcuts that would be tantamount to saying that because at some point, we are questioning things legally, we would, on the substance, be opposed to the measures. That's not the case. You know that very well. The purpose of our interventions not only on the Pandemic Bill discussed yesterday but also on this important issue before us today is to legally shield the system and to be able to debate whether this legislation is sufficiently robust. Secondly, we continue to think – and we will perhaps talk about it later – that Article 23 of the RSI does not provide a sufficient basis because it has not been incorporated into Belgian law and has not received approval. The entire French doctrine, particularly on this issue, tends to mean that it is not a law as such, and therefore not a legal basis for the PLF.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u95	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u96	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1882/3) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1882/3) "Design of legislation approving the cooperation agreement of 24 March 2021 between the Federal State, the Flemish Community, the Walloon Region, the German-speaking Community and the Joint Community Commission on the transfer of necessary data to the federated entities, local authorities or police services with a view to maintaining the mandatory quarantine or testing of travellers coming from foreign zones subject to quarantine or testing upon arrival in Belgium'. The title in Dutch was changed by the Committee to "draft law approving the cooperation agreement of 24 March 2021 between the Federal State, the Flemish Community, the Walloon Region, the German-speaking Community and the Joint Community Commission on the transfer of necessary data to the federated entities, local authorities or police forces with the aim of maintaining the mandatory quarantine or testing of travellers coming from foreign zones subject to quarantine or testing upon arrival in Belgium." The bill has two articles. The draft law has two articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u97	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u98	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs are Mr Laaouej and Mr Vanbesien and Mrs Thémont and Mrs Jirofléé. I see it's an oral report. I give the floor to Mrs Jiroflée.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u99	Madam President, the discussion in the Committee on Health and Equal Opportunities of the draft law providing temporary support measures as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic was limited to Articles 22 and 23. An amendment to Article 22 was tabled by the CdH. The amendment was rejected by the Minister and subsequently rejected in the vote, after which Rules 22 and 23 were adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u100	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this draft law extends a great deal of support measures in the context of the approach to coronapandemics. We support many of these measures, as we have in recent months. We do not do this for, among other things, the quarantine leave for workers who, so to speak, have to look after their perfectly healthy 17-year-old kid, to name but one. We do not support that, because it can take care of itself, but we have said that before. The need for support is not caused by the corona virus, but by the huge number of corona measures imposed by the government on many people, our SMEs and our middle class, without which they are scientifically substantiated or at least transparent. Well, that's a bad thing, isn't it? That is why I would like to reiterate the plea of other members of my group and myself for greater transparency on the scientific basis of corona measures. Our economy and our middle class are bleeding today, at the expense of many people and families. That's what this is about. In addition, the way the government treats people and entrepreneurs is unacceptable. Last week we saw a very painful example. Since last weekend, non-essential stores are only allowed to work by appointment or with click & collect. A large number of shopkeepers were immediately confronted with a turnover drop of between 75 and 85 %, because the additional corona measure imposed on them made the threshold far too high for customers to go shopping. In the meantime, this shopkeeper has done a lot to lead everything into good corona lanes and to meet all these additional measures, such as the introduction of an appointment system and the use of extra persons for the reception in the shop, so that everything would be done in an orderly manner. But there was a second cold shower after the weekend. The double bridge law announced for the shopkeepers for the weekend turned out to be something to laugh about after the weekend. Earlier this week, in the Committee on Social Affairs, I asked Minister Clarinval about this and the only answer the poor man could give was that if one wants to have double rights of bridging, one should close his shop. Of course, that's unexploited work, because a shopkeeper stays open because his competitor stays open across the street and vice versa. Commercially, it comes down to suicide, when one closes, while the competitor stays open. People reject customers and they go somewhere else. That's the last thing a shopkeeper wants. So you do not have an orderly policy, even now our middle class, even in Flanders, is incredibly difficult. Of course, Minister Clarinval had no choice but to give the answer he gave. The last few months have shown enough evidence that Minister Clarinval is indeed fighting for our self-employed, for our SMEs and for our middle class, but apparently he was not allowed to do so anymore, because apparently someone else had to learn a lesson. We've seen it for the last few weeks. Especially with the PS, but also with Open Vld they found that Georges-Louis Bouchez was too often out of line and so the MR had to be punished. Who is really being punished by a flat political game, among other things by Open Vld? That's our middle class. In Flanders we have quite a few of those middlemen and SMEs. In fact, it is very regrettable that they are the victims of a flat political game, because there is disagreement in the government, while the competent minister of the MR takes everything out of the box to support the middlemen and shopkeepers. My first appeal to the government is to stop playing political games with each other. Give support to those who need it. Ensure fine-meshed measures, so that those most affected by the corona approach are best supported. You certainly do not do that with regard to the middlemen. Once again, I call for unanimity and for the cessation of political games on the hood of our middle class. By the way, it is all very well to take support measures, but if one looks at them in the light of the political games, one can ask questions. In any event, I would like to make my second appeal, Mr President, to address the root problem. In future, this means that you will only take corona measures that are scientifically proven to have the desired effect. Apparently, no one really knows what measure would work to what extent or not. I refer to the invigorating statements made a few days ago by Minister Verlinden that it is necessary to look again at whether non-essential shops play a role in the numbers of infections. She did make those statements, after making the shopkeepers working almost impossible. That is really irresponsible policy, which is really an irresponsible way of governing. It is certainly irresponsible to send the many SMEs, the many middlemen, the many shopkeepers and their employees into the woods without any support worthy of that name, especially with a lot of extra obligations that make it impossible for them to work. I'll finish with my two calls. First of all, stop playing flat political games in the government. You don't have to punish the MR. I'm sure you can't punish our middle class. On the other hand, you must support the shopkeepers by, first of all, providing for a right of bridging which is proportionate to the income they lose. It is indeed a replacement income, and, second, by stopping imposing corona measures which no one knows, not even the government itself, whether they actually work or not.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u101	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the health crisis is still raging in our society. There are still companies that are forced to lay down or severely restrict their activities. It is particularly important that we continue to support companies. That is exactly what we are going to do today with the measures before us, because the economy is bleeding, as Mr Anseeeuw rightly says. I know that some Members are concerned about spending money in this context over and over again, and I understand that concern, but we must not lose sight of a number of things. We are talking here about companies which are healthy in themselves, but which receive support because of forced closure or a reduction in activity because they are now struggling. It is also a matter of temporary support. It's not structural, permanent support. It is not about maintaining zombie companies, companies that have no chance, companies in difficulty. We have said from the outset that the aid goes to companies that were healthy before the crisis. We're supposed to get these companies through the crisis. Both economists and the National Bank assure us that temporary one-off measures may hurt public finances, but are not such problems in the longer term. One-off is meant here: during the period of the health crisis, which is still going on. If we extend temporary measures quarterly, because we remain cautious, we still see them as one-off measures. These are not structural measures that are lasting in public finances. Mr Leysen once again expressed his concern about this this morning, but we agree. We have to watch over that temporality. Besides, it's not just about temporaryity. The measures must also be targeted. They are, Mr. Anseuw. That's confirmed by the governor of the National Bank. We don't just shoot away in the wild. The aid is targeted at those sectors that need it. By doing so, we ensure that every euro that is issued is a well-spent and wisely spent euro. Nor are we the only ones with such measures, Mr Anseuw. All other European countries take similar measures. If all the other European countries also take action without any scientific background, then we are all heading for the abyss, but we are not alone in that. A meeting of the Eurogroup took place two weeks ago, and one of the clear statements made there is that the countries of the Eurogroup agree that fiscal support for the economy, for the businesses and for our inhabitants, which we are currently working on, must be maintained until the health crisis is over and recovery has clearly begun. The Eurogroup says that the premature withdrawal of tax measures must be avoided at all costs. We are calling for a great deal of effort from our people. Again and again, we must ask the people to persevere with these efforts. At certain times, it is even necessary to re-engage. Now, for us too, for the government, we must continue our efforts, even if they hurt, for the welfare of our inhabitants, for the well-being of our businesses, and also to avoid an even greater economic and financial massacre. As soon as the health crisis is under control and the economic recovery is clearly under way, we need to see how we can adjust our course. This will have to be done, among other things, with an ambitious investment plan. This morning we discussed that the government had drawn up an investment plan up to 130 percent of the recovery budget that we will get from Europe. The government has decided not to delete that additional 30%, but to use its own investment funds. This morning Mr Loones made it appear that this was irresponsible, but I do not agree with that. Investment in infrastructure and digitalisation will be a key element in the relance and reconstruction of our society. However, until such time as we can begin to do so, we must maintain the current efforts. Our group will therefore give its full support to the measures now under way.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u102	Mr Vanbesien, with all due respect, I am in favour of corona measures which have a scientific basis. There must also be some transparency about this scientific basis. You are actually quoting the faintest argument that can be quoted. You say that there is scientific evidence, because if there was no scientific evidence, all the other European countries would not have taken similar measures. So it's proof from the absurd. If that is your strongest argument, then the question arises as to why almost all European countries stopped administering AstraZeneca at some point, while Belgium continued to use it. So your argument doesn't make any sense. You also say that we are calling for an effort from the people. However, that is not true, we are not asking for anything from the people, but we are imposing a lot of restrictions on freedom on the people. If one has the pretence of doing so, to the extent that there is a legal basis for doing so, then one must be able to explain it properly, with objective data and scientific justification. There is no justification for this today, otherwise that explanation would have been given a long time ago. It is no wonder, then, for the sake of clarity, that the support for these measures melts like snow for the sun. That is not a coincidence, the acceptance is disappearing because there is no transparent scientific basis. We have started with a number of freedom-limiting measures in the context of the corona approach, without any scientific evidence. There were suspicions and a well-developed gut feeling but there was no real scientific basis. That is why it is now so difficult to get rid of this. We cannot now provide any scientific basis for the reduction of the measures. That's very bad. It is therefore more necessary than ever to clarify this. Your faint argument that the others do it also does not cut wood, AstraZeneca is the most beautiful proof of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u103	Madam President, I felt personally addressed by Mr Vanbesien. I would like to reply briefly, because I would not want there to be a debate in Parliament. Mr Vanbesien says that I would have objected this morning to the fact that this government wants to invest. Initially, a European investment programme of 130% of the planned budget envelope had been developed. Now that has been reduced to 100 %. However, the government has decided not to cut it and to finance the remaining 30% through the ordinary budget. The point I made this morning seems to have been mistransmitted, so I would like to try to explain it again. I note that the European Central Bank says that Belgium is doing worse than all neighbouring countries. Our shortage for the sake of corona is greater than everyone else's. On top of this poor budgetary situation because of corona, the European Central Bank claims that Belgium is facing an additional disadvantage because there is a challenge around an ageing population. This challenge is much greater here than in a number of other countries. The European Central Bank is concerned about this. Among other things, the Minister of Finance Van Peteghem replicates that panic is not necessary and that this will be solved through reforms. In this way, public funds can be better spent, where possible savings can be made in order to invest better. According to the Minister, the European Commission may even be very strict about this: this reform policy will be implemented effectively. The European Central Bank sounds the alarm, Minister Van Peteghem says it will all be fine. So far the words, now the deeds must come. In Parliament, we find that the government is simply spending money. Money is being spent all the time, but we can't see anything about the reform agenda. There is just more and more funding, but there is no reform. I am concerned about that, Mr Vanbesien. I welcome the fact that investments are being made, that productive investments are being made, but they must be accompanied by a reform policy. All I see is a government kicking out the can. The government uses European money as an excuse not to have to reform, because it can go on for a while. I made this point this morning.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u104	Thank you very much for your statement, Mr Loones. I remember that this is about investments that will improve our infrastructure and also aim to improve productivity. In other words, that is money that is being invested and on which there is also a return. So we didn't lose that money. It is clear that reforms are also needed. That's what the coalition agreement says. Those reforms will also come. That does not mean that these investments should not be made. Mr Anseuw, as far as scientific evidence is concerned, I believe that everyone agrees that what causes people to become ill is in contact with other people who have the disease. That's how the virus is transmitted. Measures that restrict contacts and reduce contacts are measures that help against the spread of the virus. The evidence that they work, you can see in the curves of the infections.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u105	One measure restricting contact is not the other, of course. The question is whether the extent to which stricter measures are taken is more effective or not. I think the answer to that is at least very unclear. That debate must be conducted in all transparency. It is easy not to have to have this debate if, of course, everything is to be thrown into a pile. I simply note that many of the measures imposed on the population are being less and less complied with. And if one doesn't take that reality into account, one only deceives oneself, but makes it impossible for many middlemen to work and life.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u106	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we have been in an unprecedented crisis for more than a year. It deepens the inequalities present in our society and it therefore requires unprecedented but also exceptional measures to counter this movement and to keep workers, disadvantaged people and students afloat. Together with my group, we are pleased that this bill provides concrete responses to those affected in one way or another, first by extending and extending certain previous measures such as quarantine leave. The right of parents to be absent from work in the event of the closure of a school has been extended to all 40 children and cancellations of Easter internships will be treated as a school closure. There is also an extension of a €50 premium to beneficiaries of social integration income, GRAPA and replacement allowances. In addition, new provisions are being put in place. I am thinking of the young people weakened by the crisis with the decision to increase the subsidy granted to CPAS as part of the individualised social integration project. Young people will have more resources to cope with this difficult time. I am also thinking of the cultural and event sectors, which will be able to limit their salary costs to cope with the reopening without profiting from the previous season. I would like to conclude by adding that it is important today to stress that all these measures are and must be temporary. They will need to be assessed in order to consider more structural changes in long-term arrangements so that recovery is the lever for greater social justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u107	Madam President, since most of the emergency measures taken by the government to mitigate the socio-economic consequences of the corona crisis ended yesterday, they are logically extended by the present draft law. It goes without saying that our group will approve this proposal for an extension of the temporary covid support measures, but we do have some critical comments on a number of fundamental issues. The economic consequences of the lockdown measures imposed by the government are life-threatening for many self-employed and companies. Moreover, some of the measures taken are spartan and, as far as we are concerned, support is minimal. If there are any empty promises made by the government, I refer in this, just like Mr Anseeeuw, to the debate on the double right of bridging for self-employed workers who work by appointment, it is appalling how one week one can announce a measure to withdraw it one week later without blinking and without any shame. We must say that this support is therefore totally inadequate for most traders. Many of these self-employed people see their life's work go to waste one year and literally do not like it anymore, with all the sad consequences of that. The payment of the annual contributions to companies for the social status of the self-employed may be made a little later, by the end of 2021 at the latest. This type of flat-rate tax is a thorn in the eye of the companies, especially now that many companies, including the catering and tourism sectors, are unable to open up. For these specific sectors, however, the question remains as to when they will be able to open at all. They too have been waiting for more than a year for perspective, for a glimmer of light. Moreover, we must not forget that a company that is unable to generate revenue will continue to pay taxes: municipal tax, provincial tax, property tax, social contributions, SABAM, compulsory contributions to the protection and prevention services at work, etc. Companies that are more or less able to continue their normal business can pay for this, but companies that are obliged to close will have to pay for it with the aid they receive. That's a vest pocket operation for those self-employed and companies. We therefore regret that the measure does not take into account at all the specific problems faced by the obliged closed companies. Anyone who is obliged to close would not have to pay in this respect at least pro rata. I come to the compensation fund for volunteers who would be the victims of their engagement in the covid crisis. The Fund was already established in June 2020. The relevant Articles extend the operation of the Fund until 1 January 2022. It is a good thing that this has already been taken care of preventively. Unfortunately, however, we heard in committee that there is a victim to be regretted. With regard to the capital offered, plus the maximum EUR 1,020 funeral expenses, we maintain that these amounts are on the low side. It is a pity that Minister Vandenbroucke is not here, but in committee I pointed out the fact that, although administratively, the Fedris website still contains an incorrect end date. Even today, the date of 1 July 2020 is on the web site. In order to prevent a non-take-up from taking place, it seems appropriate to adjust the date. I'm moving on to Articles 38 and 39. The Committee on Social Affairs took up a lot of ministers, and so it was also a lot of articles. Those articles of the draft law extend the scheme allowing volunteers to work in the private commercial sector until the end of June 2021. The aim is not only to allow volunteers to be active in the organisations that are registered as non-profit organisations, but also to have them active in commercial retirement homes. As I pointed out in committee, without questioning the measure, we still have some concerns. Minister Vandenbroucke had to remain guilty of the question of how many volunteers are active in these organisations. The question remains to what extent the rule is monitored and followed up that the volunteers concerned should not take up regular employment. The Minister acknowledged that an evaluation of the current measure could be useful and that any complaints about abuse would always be investigated. So I hope that will actually happen and be followed up. In committee, however, the Minister stressed that voluntary work in commercial retirement homes is also an extremely exceptional measure and therefore temporary in nature. I also referred in my speech to the fact that due to the high mortality rates due to COOVID-19, the capacity utilisation of the rooms in the health care institutions concerned is considerably lower than before the crisis. The empty position runs from 10 to 20 % according to figures from early February 2021. The question remains, therefore, whether this affects the permanent staff of these institutions. In other words, if regular employment in those institutions falls due to the lower occupancy, the use of volunteers seems to be a contradiction. For the sake of clarity, we are not opposed to this measure, but we would like to emphasise that we must continue to work on maintaining regular employment. Madam Secretary, I'm glad you're here. As regards the extension of the corona premium granted to persons entitled to certain social assistance benefits, we would point out, as at the committee meeting, that some of the persons with disabilities were excluded from that scheme, namely those receiving invalidity benefits through the sickness fund. In our opinion, this is still an injustice to that group, because the disabled people who receive a benefit through the FPS receive a premium of EUR 50. I mentioned this a number of times, and you also agreed that this arrangement is unfair, but I suspect that no consensus was reached within the government. We think that's still a missed opportunity. That is why we again tabled our amendment to that article in order to respond to the aspirations of those people. We therefore hope to support our amendment to correct this social inequality. I will also explain an amendment tabled by my colleagues from the Finance Committee. The exclusion from the measure of companies that have been in difficulty as a result of the COOVID-19 crisis would mean that companies that urgently need recapitalisation fall outside the scope of the measure. We therefore note that companies in difficulty cannot avail themselves of the tax relief in connection with the acquisition of new shares. We have therefore again tabled an amendment on this subject. As I said at the beginning, our group will, despite our critical comments, support this draft law in the interests of right holders.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u108	This is a coherent set of measures, some of which are new and others extended. As everyone has said, we are all suffering – much less in this chamber than outside – from the ongoing health crisis, with all the harmful consequences we know. Of course, we are looking forward to being able to participate and work towards the real restart of our economy, through structural reforms such as tax reform, which is planned during this Parliament and which must ensure that we have a simpler and fairer tax system. Today, we are in the whirlwind of the crisis, and we must continue and increase our aid and the support measures we have launched since the beginning of this crisis in our country. As some have said, these measures are aimed at all segments of society affected by the crisis, and they are numerous, whether in the healthcare sectors, in education, among students, CPAS and pensioners, but also, let us stress, with our independents, the Horeca and the event, who have been experiencing enormous difficulties for more than a year, and that we cannot either – quite the contrary – leave at the edge of the road, because they are the salt and binder of our whole society and its economic activity. We would like to thank the government and colleagues for the amendment concerning the possibility of a further amendment of the framework agreements within the framework of the tax shelter for the audiovisual and performing arts sectors. It's a simple measure, but it's going to be very helpful to this sector that really needs it. Despite all the criticisms that we hear on both sides of this House, I believe that everyone – and this was said a few moments ago – recognizes the need for support, that this need for support is essential, cannot cease and must continue in the interest of our economy and society, so that we can revive our economy as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u109	Madam President, our group will also support this draft law on temporary support measures. The draft includes the extension of certain measures we have already taken in the recent past, but adds a number of important new aid measures. I would stress that these are temporary measures, which as such should be a prelude to certain re-launch measures for certain sectors when they can be reopened, such as the catering industry. These support measures are in a very specific economic environment. A few weeks ago, we heard Pierre Wunsch from the National Bank explaining the economic effects of this crisis. In short, this is a serious but also atypical economic crisis. It is hard because three years of economic growth are lost with a pin stroke and certain sectors are hit excessively hard, such as the service sectors, where there is direct contact with consumers. The crisis is also atypical because private consumption is falling, while savings quotas are rising dramatically overall. Pierre Wunsch also said that thanks to the measures taken last year and in the course of this year, the economic effects were very well managed and absorbed, and that a collapse of our economic system was avoided. This is the intention of aid measures, which is the intention of the aid measures in this draft law. However, we must also bear in mind that after the aid measures, we must at some point take the step towards real aid and re-launch measures, which we will probably discuss very extensively here. We are not the only ones taking support measures. The local authorities and the Länder are also very active. So the federal level couldn't be left behind. Many measures are being taken in this draft. Just think of the 6% on hand, the 15% on company tax for the temporary unemployed, the exemption for the aid granted by the Länder and local authorities. In short, these measures take many of us: self-employed, citizens, SMEs, volunteers, etc. I would like to highlight a number of measures. A measure concerns a tax reduction for the rejection of new shares. This is an important measure to support our SMEs as it responds to solvency and liquidity. At the same time, it encourages our citizens to invest their savings in our own SMEs. Another important new measure is the tax advantage for the cancellation of rent. That is a measure which we are very much in favour of, because we ourselves had put forward proposals for it. We are pleased that this is reflected in this draft. This is a measure whereby the rental and rental benefits can be waived by the landlords, which can then be applied as a tax advantage to the landlords. This is a very concrete measure which can have a significant impact on certain sectors, which are hard hit and which have fixed costs that continue to go on, such as the payment of rents. It is important in this respect that the necessary communication will also be made so that the measure will be applied on the ground. Indeed, if this measure is applied to a large extent, its impact will be all the greater. Another measure I would like to explain, in addition to the many other valuable measures, is the reduction in the target population for hotels and tourism, so that they can also recover part of the fixed costs for staff, which they must use to provide a minimum number of people. So these are a lot of important temporary aid measures that build on the aid that has already been put in place over the past year. It is important that we monitor, evaluate and, if necessary, adjust these support measures. It is also important that the necessary communication is attached to this. Our group will fully support this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u110	Madam President, I would like to speak on a few points. Firstly, the increase in the number of voluntary overtime for 2020 in key sectors. This rule is now being extended for the third time in a row, without overwage, without catching up, without social security contributions. If someone had predicted that I would be in Parliament 30 years later as a young snotter and a junior union representative in a cardboard company, I would have said that person was crazy. If someone had predicted me that 30 years later I would experience the loss of overtime payments and the voluntary admission of overtime, I would have declared him even crazier. We really need to realize how many people have been on the streets for this, how many years of social struggle there have been to get the overtime paid more, and that at a time when things are going well in a company. We understand that it is a bit difficult in certain sectors now, but if there is something I have learned in those 30 years, then that is not normal. There is always a reason to make something cheaper for employers. I remember when I came from Limburg, the temporary reduction of overtime in the fruit sector and then in the automobile and steel sectors. If I have counted correctly, there are already 83 wage systems in Belgium. I do not want to count the deviations in overtime at all, because I think they simply cannot be kept up to date. After this epidemic, life will go on and my fear is that this will be the new normal. I hope not, but what signal do we send anyway? While the National Bank of Belgium expects a loss of 100,000 jobs, you allow people to remain out of work and that those who are working in the crucial sectors have to double back. I've been on the ground a lot in recent weeks with the unions, including a food company in Genk. At the end of last year, staff were told that the food company will close in November of this year. They have worked against the stars in the first corona wave and repeated it in the second corona wave, even though they will no longer have work in November. Then how voluntary are the overtime? I'd like to know. The workers are working on hunger wages and working overtime to pick up something, even though there was one outbreak after another and did not know if their lives were safe. If we start to think that's normal, I'm really worried. And what does one do with the double bridging right? Last week we had discussions with the Minister about the decision that the double bridging right is not granted to non-essential companies that receive customers by appointment. Let us be clear in the hemisphere: we absolutely cannot agree to that. After the first blow for the non-essential shops, which are only allowed to operate by appointment, the second blow followed a few days later: the double bridging right will not eventually be granted to the non-essential shops that receive customers by appointment. We have heard the figures here several times today: there is talk of a turnover loss of 65% to 80%. Many of those shopkeepers have already written to me and made it clear that they have continued to fight, but for them it stops with such a policy. I would once again appeal to do the right thing and to grant the double right of bridging also to shopkeepers who are open by appointment. The extension of temporary unemployment due to the closure of classes is a good measure. I admit that. However, this is accompanied by a loss of income. That is why we have tabled an amendment to maintain the level of income. Why? That's very clear. The schools are closing down to fight the epidemic. But when parents bring their children massively to grandparents or other family members, they control the spread of the virus. By the way, the crisis group on the social impact of COOVID-19 found in its latest note that the lower the income, the less parents take corona parents' leave. This means that the lowest incomes are less dependent on that leave, to which they are entitled, because they do not have the necessary resources. We do not think that is fair. Everyone must be able to take care of their child at exceptional times, as we are now experiencing. Finally, as far as the temporary contribution for beneficiaries is concerned, we believe that social benefits should indeed be increased, but the increase must be structural, sustainable and substantial. In our view, a one-off, temporary and insufficient bonus, as proposed in this text, is absolutely insufficient. Even with the premium, many beneficiaries are still below the poverty line. The crisis really isn't over in three months. The social consequences may be much more severe. That is why we are calling for a substantial and long-term increase to help beneficiaries effectively instead of only getting EUR 50 in their accounts for three months.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u111	Madam Secretary, I'm glad you're here with us. We all agree that many sectors are currently going through difficult times and are under heavy pressure. It is therefore extremely important to extend the measures, to adjust them and to introduce flexibility in order to be able to move quickly. The draft law was explained in detail by the relevant ministers and our group supports it. I will go into some of the elements that we discussed in the Committee on Social Affairs. For the self-employed, it is positive that the flat-rate contribution to the social status should not be paid until December instead of June. That is a good measure that creates some breathing space for our seriously affected entrepreneurs. As has already been mentioned, there are also a lot of regional and local support measures for them. As far as the field of work is concerned, it is positive that people who are temporarily unemployed can make an easy contribution to certain sectors. This ensures a smooth organisation of work in the healthcare sector and in the private sector, but also in the vaccination centres and the contact centres. It is a good thing that workers can be made available very easily and that successive fixed-term contracts can be concluded with temporary unemployed. These people also gain experience in other sectors, which allows them to develop their talents there as well. I can even see an opportunity to take courses there. We therefore consider that to be very positive. Another positive measure is that the compensation fund for volunteers can remain operational. Of course, we are also pleased that the association workers were added to this. The association workers, whom we all know, are working at sports associations where... 13-year-olds are allowed to play sports, which means that they are also in a very vulnerable position when teaching. Furthermore, it is also very good that the use of volunteers in private housing centres can be continued, as the pressure from dealing with the crisis and staff shortages has been quite high in the past. That will still be the case after Corona. Finally, we think it is positive that there are additional financial incentives for the OMCWs. The figures show that the number of applications for a living wage has increased in all OMCWs. The pressure on those OCMWs is also enormous. For example, there is an increase in applications for a living wage for young people, which makes it clear that they have also been hit very hard. The 10% extra subsidy is mainly intended for individualised guidance and follow-up. The OMCW is not only there for the living wage, but also for other forms of assistance. We absolutely must take that into account. I have already said it in a number of discussions in committee: the social workers of the OMCW are also in the line of fire in dealing with this crisis. Ladies and gentlemen, Ministers who have explained this to us, our group supports this bill with great enthusiasm.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u112	Mrs De Jonge, you have very eloquently cited a number of measures contained in the draft law on measures which we also support. However, you have not mentioned the things that are not in it in any way. Two things stand out because of absence and I would have liked to have heard the opinion of the Open Vld. First of all, the catering business. It has been in place for months now and is begging for additional measures. We all know what needs to be done: VAT needs to be reduced to 6%. Measures should also be taken on RSZ payments. We all know that, it's also in the newspapers, several ministers say it's coming. Minister of Finance Van Peteghem says time and time again, week after week, month after month, that he is working on it, but it is not coming. Why is this clarification not given to the catering sector? Why are measures being extended for all sectors but not for the catering industry? The Minister of Finance is working on it, but apparently it isn't coming. My question to you is therefore the following. Is the Open Vld pulling the cart too? If it doesn't stick with you, who does it stick with? Where's the problem? Secondly, we have talked a number of times today about the double right of bridging. There too, however, I have an explicit question for you, because the Open Vld should still be the party for retailers and retailers. We note that Minister for Small Enterprises and Small Enterprises Clarinval states that the shops must now work with a reservation system, which really leads to dramas, and that the government will develop a double right of bridging for the sector. He'll even send out a press release on it. Afterwards, the core comes together, i.e. the Deputy Prime Ministers, who decides not to implement the double bridging right. Why did Minister Van Quickenborne and Prime Minister Alexander De Croo, being two Open Vld'ers, just whistled Clarinval back at that point? Why doesn't your party want a double bridging right for retail outlets?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u113	Madam President, I feel directly addressed. It's true that a bill is in place. It is important that we discuss the legislative proposal on its content. It is obvious that it will never go far enough for everyone. Whoever is in the opposition can of course speak very loudly about that. However, I would like to point out that Open Vld is a partner in the government and, of course, together with the government, prepares and supports the support measures in detail. There's no question about that. Minister Clarinval was very clear in the committee about the double bridging right. We're behind it, too. There is a double right of bridging for the middle classes, the catering shops and the contact professions because they are completely closed. That has been made clear. A single bridging right exists for non-essential shops for which it appears that they have more than 40% loss. That's very clear. If these matters are to be closed, they can also rely on the double right of bridging, as the Minister has also made clear. We support that. I also said at the beginning of my speech that measures should always be evaluated and adjusted. At the moment, we fully support the proposal that is on the table today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u114	It is good to hear confirmation that Open Vld was clearly not in favour of a double bridging right for traders who have to work with a reservation system, and of which Minister Clarinval was in favour. That's kind of sad and painful. You're asking why the hell I'm bringing up the catering business. We are talking here about extending a number of temporary support measures which have been in force for a long time. About all measures are extended except for one sector, the catering industry. The catering industry here is the great absentee. Then you blame me for asking questions about the catering sector. Everything is being extended, except for the catering industry. For months now we have been hearing that work will be done on it and that something might come. The night before they are allowed to open, another KB will be approved. That night itself, all those people in the sector will be allowed to switch their checkout systems and inform their staff. However, it is perfectly possible to prepare this in a proper way and to give certainty to the sector already. We know what measures are going to be taken. It's in the papers. Minister Van Quickenborne liked to advertise it in De Tijd a few weeks ago. We read it everywhere, in the newspapers and magazines. Only here in Parliament, where it really matters, do we see nothing of it. When government bills come, one sector is forgotten by the government, and that is the catering sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u115	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, anyone who saw the footage of the UZ yesterday on The Journal knows that the corona virus is just raging. That is why we need to support the people and sectors that have been severely affected by the measures. Of course, our group can support this bill, which extends, updates and updates support measures. For example, I think it is important for parents to be able to count on temporary unemployment during the extended Easter holiday. The self-employed, also the self-employed freelancers at home, as the Minister confirmed, can also count on support, just as people who have been particularly hard to rely on a corona premium, and as we support the heavily affected cultural sector and the travel sector. In doing so, we focus specifically on maintaining employment. I have mentioned a number of examples. In addition to the measures that people and sectors need to further support through this corona crisis, I would like to highlight three points of interest. A first focus is on cleaning aid. Cleaning aid has been operating for over a year, in many cases without too much protective equipment, as the use of protective equipment in this sector is sometimes difficult. It seems that employers are not always convinced of the usefulness of investment in this. At Flemish level, additional measures have now been taken to reduce the health risks for these people, but I would also like to call on the federal government to do this for the first time, and I have said this on several occasions in the committee to consider how we can ensure that the measures are monitored and enforced and how we can carry out inspections. Since cleaning aid is carried out at home, control is not evident, but I think that inspection is important, just out of respect for the work done by the cleaning aid workers for over a year. The cleaning aids are committed so that other people, often vulnerable older people, can stay at home for longer, even in difficult circumstances. A second point concerns overtime. I have heard from the sector that the pressure is still very high and that it is necessary to make overtime to cope with the influx, but it must be clear that this is a temporary and exceptional measure for us. This also applies to the whole package of measures. Yesterday I heard nurses in the UZ with tears in their eyes saying that the first time was heavy, that the second time was heavier and that the third time is even heavier, but that they continue. The influx of patients is there and they want to take care of them and do not go home because they have spent their hours. They stay and move on. It is important to evaluate this system and to assess its impact and how it can be taken into account. After all, it cannot be that the corona crisis would cause a huge increase in long-term sick and burn-outs because of the mental pressure that workers are experiencing. We need to see how we can cope with the mental pressure these people are feeling. Thirdly, vaccination centres. This draft law contains a number of measures to allow vaccination centres to function properly. That's very important. We all put our hopes on that. I would like to thank the government and Minister Vandenbroucke for allowing volunteers to temporarily spend 70 days instead of 40 in vaccination centres. Also temporarily unemployed and self-employed people who now live on a right of bridging are allowed to work in a vaccination centre without loss of benefit and without any additional tax burden and thus help us all to protect ourselves, so that we can put this misery behind us for a year now. We support this bill, but it is temporary and exceptional measures. As long as they are needed, we must provide that support, but I hope, like everyone else here, that we can proceed to relance as soon as possible and return to normal.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u116	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the bill under consideration today is intended to extend a range of temporary tax, social and health support measures due to the pandemic. It is clear that, as such, the CDH will only be able to support it. Yet we will do so with a certain regret: that of continually attending a game of majority versus opposition in moments as delicate as those we are going through. And because, while the CDH was constructive in the discussions in the Committee on Finance and the Budget, in the Committee on Social Affairs and in the Committee on Health, by proposing a series of amendments designed to improve the scope of the text for the benefit of citizens hard hit by the crisis, these proposals have been deemed uninterested by a majority who claim to be omniscient and who have barely taken the time to read these proposals for improvement before sweeping them away. What did we want? First of all, give a boost to the associative fabric. Many organizations and ASBLs of significant social interest have seen their revenues decline in recent months, inter alia, because the activities they organize to raise funds could not be continued because of the covid-19 pandemic, because they were simply deprived of their revenues or had to increase their expenses for the same reasons. More concessions could compensate for this loss of revenue and increased spending. In order to encourage the benefits of the institutions approved for the year 2020, two measures were introduced through Article 3 of the Law of 15 July 2020 on various urgent tax measures due to the covid-19 pandemic. First, the percentage of the tax reduction of 45% was increased to 60% for gifts made in 2020. Second, the total amount of benefits for which a tax reduction can be granted is in principle limited to 10% of all the taxpayer's net income that is taxed overall with a maximum of EUR 397 850, indexed amount for the 2021 tax year. This rate of 10% was increased to 20% for benefits paid by natural persons in 2020. Two of our amendments contained identical measures for those to be paid in this year, because of the continued pandemic and its harmful effects on the beneficiaries of the benefits. As already mentioned, these proposals were rejected by the majority, which thus preferred to abandon the fabric of associations to its fate. We take note of that. Other amendments were aimed at preserving the principle of fairness in relations between States and liability, in particular with regard to interest charges for delay or moratoria due from one or the other. Again, the majority preferred to keep separate rates and swept our amendments aside. With regard to the exemption from contributions to the AFSCA for the horeca sector, we support it, since Catherine Fonck proposed the same measure last September through an amendment to Bill No. 1513 amending the Royal Decree of 10 November 2005 laying down the contributions referred to in Article 4 of the Act of 9 December 2004 on the financing of the AFSCA. Once again, the amendment was rejected. As a reminder, its objective was to extend to fiscal year 2021 the exemption provided for 2020 for the horeca and street retail sectors. Nevertheless, we wanted to extend this exemption to this latter activity, because it is also facing great difficulties – although it can officially open, unlike Horeca. That is why we are tabling an amendment calling for the travelling trade sector to benefit from the same exemption as Horeca for 2021. Indeed, we believe that accompaniment to recovery at the end of the crisis is essential. With regard to the part examined in the Social Affairs Committee, the bill aims to extend certain aids in the pandemic context. These measures are necessary, but insufficient again. My group leader Catherine Fonck had argued in committee for 100% compensation for low wages when a worker is quarantined for having been tested positive or for at-risk contact. This provision seems to us to encourage greater respect for isolation measures – a respect that is essential in the management of the pandemic. It had also called for more equal measures between the various sectors: the travel, event and hotel sector. Finally, it had tabled an amendment to extend the suspension of the scheme, according to which the period of incapacity for work of the self-employed may not begin until the date of signature of the medical certificate at the earliest. Indeed, following the third wave, it will not always be possible to consult a doctor from the first day of incapacity for work of the self-employed. Self-employed people are therefore at risk of being harmed again. We were told that the Minister of the Independents would do so in any case, but it seemed to us more prudent to include it in the bill, as much as we are never immune from a false promise. We've seen him again recently. That is why we are resubmitting this amendment today, as well as the amendment definitively abolishing the anti-abuse provision in question, since it seems excessive to us. With regard to the granting of the double right of access to businesses which were the victims of the ministerial decree of 26 March, it now seems clear that a false promise has been made to the independents. Indeed, the government has decided to close non-essential stores while allowing them to operate according to an appointment mechanism. In the face of this situation, Minister Clarinval, in charge of the Middle Classes, Independents and SMEs, announced that these non-essential businesses could benefit from the dual right bridge. A few days later: Bardaf is the embard! Undoubtedly recalled to order by the government, and in any case by the Secretary of State for the Budget, in the Finance and Budget Committee on the occasion of the examination of the second adjustment, the same minister returns to his announcement and states that it is only in the event that it is impossible for a non-essential trade to work by appointment, and that he must therefore cease his activities or rely solely on the Click & Collect or delivery, that the merchant may then be entitled to the double right bridge for the months of March and April 2021. Worse, to access it, he will even have to provide evidence justifying the impossibility of opening by appointment to his social insurance fund, the minister said. It is an additional obligation to justify itself for self-employed people who are already razing. This is an additional blow to the economic fabric. In the face of this situation, we can only regret once again the government's cacophony in its announcements to the sectors affected by its closure decisions, with a furious tendency for it to always come from the same partners. Secondly, at the cdH level, we believe that who decides to close must decide to pay. If the government takes restrictive measures vis-à-vis one or more sectors, it is up to it to compensate for the economic damage it creates vis-à-vis these sectors. That is why we have tabled an amendment to make the Minister's initial announcements a reality. We want to please him and save Private David! A double right bridge for non-essential businesses that have opened by appointment since March 27th, we have no doubt that the members of the party that had originally claimed this measure, as well as those who claim to defend the interests of the independents in this assembly, will subscribe to it. This amendment should therefore receive broad support. We are already looking forward to that. We shall therefore count each other's votes. We are sure that the independents will do the same. That, Madam President, concludes my speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u117	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it has been more than a year since we have been living with coronavirus, a virus that has forced us to see our fundamental freedoms stopped. One of these freedoms is that of working. Our self-employed people have seen their activity slow down or even stopped. This situation, which has created unprecedented economic, fiscal and administrative difficulties, has become untenable for many self-employed people who struggle to see the light at the end of the tunnel. Let's be good at it! Aid has been granted by each level of power to enable a large number of self-employed persons and their employees to keep their heads out of the water. However, in addition to seeing their prospects for recovery move away from the third wave of the epidemic, but also from the delays in our vaccination campaign, our economy will take time and time to recover. The vast majority of affected companies will only see their turnover reach that of previous years after long months of work but also after new costs, new limitations in the number of customers or spectators allowed, due to the health rules surrounding their recovery. Since the end of the moratorium on bankruptcies on 31 January, late-payment companies are again threatened with bankruptcy. For DéFI, this moratorium must be reinstated as long as the pandemic is present and a return to normal is not envisaged. Regardless of the reform of the judicial reorganization procedure we have voted for, no matter what tacit moratorium would exist for institutional creditors, since all other creditors can still initiate the bankruptcy of their debtor companies. It is in this context, therefore, that this bill is before us, a bill that we are somewhat familiar with, since a number of these provisions consist of extending measures that have already been taken. My intervention will therefore be very brief, on the understanding that our group had already supported many of these measures during the period of special powers. By way of illustration, the tax shelter covid-19 system approved in July 2020 at the federal level is a measure that my group strongly supported and even proposed and that is now taking the form of a tax reduction for the acquisition of new shares or shares of companies that are experiencing a sharp decline in their turnover as a result of the pandemic. In this regard, we will not fail to question the government when the first snippet warnings have been sent, in order to ascertain whether these two measures have finally been successful, which we obviously hope. I would also like to mention the extension of the tax exemption from the various allowances introduced at regional and local level as at 31 December 2021. As we have already pointed out in the past, it would be absolutely inconceivable for the self-employed who are in full contact with the health crisis to be taxed part of the aid to enable them to survive. This bill also introduces new measures. In this regard, my group would like to welcome the introduction of the tax exemption for the waiver of rent, in order to support companies that have been forced to close their doors due to health measures. Since the beginning of the crisis, the fixed costs of the self-employed have actually increased steadily. Because of a lack of liquidity, traders – often tenants of their property – have experienced and are still experiencing enormous difficulties in honouring their rent. In this regard, I would point out that a similar measure has already been taken by the Brussels government in the form of a loan on commercial rent for a maximum period of four months per building. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, as long as the health crisis is not behind us and the vaccination campaign is not optimal, DéFI is and will remain in favour of extending any measures that can mitigate the health and socio-economic consequences of the pandemic, which is why we will support this bill. When the self-employed are finally able to resume their activities fully and completely, they will still need a great deal of courage, resilience and energy to maintain their business, which – we will never repeat enough – is often the project of a lifetime. We are and will stand by them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u118	Since there are still other speakers, we will take a second turn before we hear you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u119	Colleagues, you must probably be a little desperate to hear the words'second round', but you doubted it, since you had heard that my distinguished colleague from Groen had mentioned the tax side. So we had to deal with the social aspect. However, I will try to make it short, first by clarifying – to end the most complete suspense – that we will support this bill, and then by saying that much has already been said about the various elements of this bill. However, my group would like to go back to two or three points. First, there have been several references to the political games that would have taken place during the drafting and writing of the articles of this bill. I'm always a little dubious when it comes to political games. In this case, we are simply talking about a balance that has been found between seven parties that make up the Vivaldi coalition, seven parties that have different fundamentals, values, cultural dynamics and that it is a matter of reconciling. I am always a little gratified when we get there, because I think that at least we are able to introduce today a bill that, as a result of measures already taken or to be taken, continues to support as much as possible – within the limits of our respective dynamics and values – all sectors particularly affected by the crisis. This includes the self-employed with the carry-over of contributions, and the workers. We are still a little concerned when it comes to extending overtime measures. It is said that many sectors and workers are exhausted. It would not be necessary at some point for the rope too tense to loosen. These measures must be temporary; the social partners ask for them. Of course, this third renewal will require considerable attention to avoid the weakening of labour law and the exhaustion of workers. Let us recall our willingness to evaluate this measure and to promote a longer-term commitment, a structural commitment to employment and not the remuneration of overtime. Let's repeat it because it's important. The same applies to fixed-term contracts. Some have mentioned this and I come back to it now: unemployment for parents who cannot take care of their children and who should call for this unemployment. Perhaps we were leaving nothing in March 2020 and it was very complicated to put things in place. We did so, with about all the parties in this Parliament, because we felt there was a problem. Should this unemployment be improved, paid for? Should everyone be able to take it? Of course. But this is another file, which I hope we can open soon. It is that of sharing working time and family time. Of course, more people should be able to benefit from a balance and a better distribution. Reference was made to the reduction of target groups, the event sector, travel, and the hotel sector. I think it's sometimes a little hard to say that sectors have been completely forgotten. Above all, I want to insist. This afternoon, we talked about things that were not in this bill because obviously many things are not there, but are settled by royal orders. I am thinking, for example, of the increase in unemployment benefits for those who benefit from the ill-named artist status. It's just an example. There are others. I'm going to extend the premiums by 50 euros. Of course, it's only 50 euros and it's only for a while. But it also represents a symbolic message. Of course, children are at home more than expected, so the cost of living increases: energy, water... even if these are fairly limited things. And 50 euros can make it possible to avoid tilting. Should we do more, and fight more against poverty? I think that many of us in this House are waiting for only one thing: to engage in this fight instead of fighting a virus. With regard to the fight against poverty, on the adjustments that are taken, on the subsidies that are found, there is also each time support, accompanied by additional budgets. For example, for CPAS, there is support in terms of human resources. It should be noted that there is still some form of coherence in these decisions. Yesterday, my 16-year-old nephew sent me messages asking me "what we were doing" in Parliament and telling me "we're tired of it, we want our freedom and you're depriving us of it". I don't know what to say to him. There is no cocorico on what we do, but I can tell him and all the young people that there is a parliament of 150 people who work a lot, that there is a government that makes decisions. Our will is not to give up and to accompany the measures in this infernal and unbearable crisis. I mean to young people that, of course, it's not an end, it's only a moment. We continue, through our work in committee, through inquiries, through the opposition, which constantly says what needs to be done. I want to send this message to young people who think they're abandoned. I tell them that there are a lot of people working to fight this virus and, above all, to preserve their dignity, their identity and their future. I thought it was important to call him back tonight.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u120	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will avoid being redundant and will simply complement Mrs Marghem's speech on the articles of this bill that have been dealt with in the Social Affairs Committee. It has been a year since we suffered this pandemic, a year since each of our fellow citizens – whatever their function in society – suffered the consequences to varying degrees. The health crisis has rapidly evolved into an economic, social and health crisis. From the beginning, the Wilmès government had taken the necessary health measures to prevent the spread of coronavirus. They have had to be complemented by measures to support our most vulnerable citizens, our workers and, in particular, the front-line sectors, but also our entrepreneurs and self-employed. These provisions have been extended several times over the past year. Today, we are still in the eye of the cyclone. As the spectrum of the virus continues to be present, the government took a series of actions last February. Some arrangements have been extended until the end of June, but new measures have been added to the first ones. There are many extensions, in favour of our self-employed and our companies, for volunteers who have been in support since the beginning of the crisis, but also for social beneficiaries and young people who are increasingly disadvantaged. Finally, measures to support employees have also been extended and supplemented by specific aid to certain sectors. The MR Group would like to thank the ministers involved in this bill, but also the whole government, which works daily and adapts the measures to the changing situation. They help support the most vulnerable citizens, workers and their jobs, as well as our businesses. They are necessary, pending new decisions that will enable our economy to recover. Today, as yesterday and as tomorrow, my group and I will be behind the government in this recovery objective.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u121	Madam Chair, I will focus on three sections that are part of this bill that deal with the introduction of temporary half-day unemployment for the securities sector. Today, there is a law that puts safeguards in the employment contract. It is the law of 3 July 1978 which allows every worker to have the right to maintain his remuneration once the day has begun. In the service securities sector, when the worker starts his work in the morning but in the afternoon a beneficiary cancels, either he is found another beneficiary, or he is sent home. In many cases, employers do not pay for the day to which the worker is entitled. This is problematic, especially since this sector is largely subsidized. This sector receives more than 70% of subsidies. In addition, there is a large majority of women in this sector who work for poor wages. For this reason, among other things, they were participating in last Monday's strike. They demand a minimum wage of 14 euros. To deal with this situation, the government has taken the lead. But, in our view, it has found a very bad solution by introducing this unemployment in half-days. Why is this a bad solution? This is first and foremost the consequence of the government's choice not to apply the law. It's still a little crazy! We didn't have a particular claim to pull out new social gains. No! There is indeed a law aimed at protecting workers and giving them the right to the guaranteed wage. Instead of enforcing this law, this unemployment is set up in half-days. This is the first reason why we couldn't accept it. First, the law had to be enforced. The second reason is that it is again based on the back of social security. At some point, we still need to discuss its refinancing. The third reason, and not the least, is that this provision further aggravates the poverty pay of all these women. Trade union organisations have calculated that on average over one month they will be paid two half-days of temporary unemployment. They will lose 70 euros a month! I don't know if we can see here what it means 70 euros a month! With 70 euros a month, you fill a shopping cart in a large area, a fridge for a family of four! We are also concerned that the Minister has read the report of the National Labour Council. The latter is not at all unanimous on this choice. There are some differences between the social partners, but on the substance there is no consensus at all. For a minister who regularly repeats that he wants to respect social consultation, it could have been expected that he would not take the decision to put this draft to the vote today, given the weak consensus. When the report is read, it is mainly the employers who welcome the proposal that you will be voting on earlier. We will not support it, and we have asked that these three articles be voted on separately. In his remarks to the press last week, Thierry Bodson highlights the fact that the period of covid-19 and the situation of service titles are being used to bring out this old employer's recipe which the unions had managed to keep in the drawer. It is clear that for us the stakes are fundamental. The term "exceptional period, exceptional measures" is often used. It is true that the project refers to a temporary period. But we believe it is unacceptable to charge these workers even more for not simply enforcing the law. We will not only be vigilant about the future. Above all, we will remain on the ground alongside the workers who will face major problems because of the decision that is about to be taken today. Abuses will probably have to be found in the employer's head. We will support all the actions of these women who will fight for their dignity.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u122	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the support of the majority of you. As almost everyone said, the government would have preferred not to have to introduce this bill. The extension of measures does mean that the health crisis is going on, and that many of our fellow citizens, if not the majority of them, are suffering. They suffer because they can't do their jobs anymore, because they can't have social relations anymore, because they can't go to school anymore. But the government, through this bill, wanted to be with everyone in order to effectively minimize the negative effects of this crisis on all of our citizens. Of course, I am not going to repeat the whole debate. You did very well with each other. I would just like to respond to an amendment from the CDH, particularly with regard to anti-abuse provisions. You seemed to say that you preferred to table the amendment because you did not trust Minister Clarinval. I would just like to tell you that tomorrow, in the Council of Ministers – whose agenda I have here – will include a royal decree to extend the non-application of anti-abuse provisions. I therefore imagine that the amendment may fall, but it is of course up to you to decide. But I can assure you that this is on the agenda and that there is an agreement in the Council of Ministers. For the rest of the anti-abuse provisions, Minister Clarinval believes that flexibility is also needed, but it is a real debate that will have to be conducted outside the crisis. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, that is what I wanted to add.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u123	I welcome the Minister's announcement. That's a very good thing. In order to anticipate this good news of tomorrow, we will already put forward an act of support for the amendment.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u124	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u125	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1851/13) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1851/13) The bill has 68 articles. The draft law has 68 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u126	• 9 – Vanessa Matz cs (1851/14)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u127	Sustained: Amendments and Articles 12, 24, 36 to 38 (at the request of the PVDA-PTB Group) and 63. Reserved: Amendments and Articles 12, 24, 36 to 38 (at the request of the PVDA-PTB Group) and 63.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u128	The discussion of the articles is closed. To be held at a later date: - the vote on the amendments and articles reserved; - the vote on the whole. The discussion of the articles is closed. Will take place later: - the vote on the amendments and articles which have been adopted; - the vote on the whole.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u129	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Karin Jiroflée, Laurence Zanchetta, Caroline Taquin, Laurence Hennuy, Nawal Farih, Robby De Caluwé, Barbara Creemers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u130	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u131	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the services for the speed and efficiency with which they worked. This text was discussed in the Committee on Health on 30 March and, in view of the urgency, we have asked our services to work quickly to be able to present this text to you today in plenary. Ms. Jiroflée, the author of the bill, outlined the bill and stressed the desire to expand the screening strategy. In addition to tracing and quarantine, screening is an important weapon in the fight against covid-19. Thanks to the technological progress made last year, it is now also possible to use self-tests. If these tests were not considered reliable enough at the beginning of the crisis, their quality has improved over time and they now meet the reliability criteria we expect from them. In concrete terms, the bill repeals the ban on the sale of rapid antigenic tests in pharmacies. However, licensed pharmacies will only be able to make these rapid antigenic tests available to health care practitioners. In addition, the proposed legislation creates a framework for the use of self-tests. In this regard, it is important to note that any person whose self-test will be positive will need to contact a vaccination centre or doctor in order to have a PCR test performed. The proposed legislation also amends the PCR test rate. Finally, the requirement to perform a PCR test when the antigenic test has produced a negative or doubtful result is repealed. Ms Jiroflée also tabled an amendment co-signed by Ms Zanchetta, Ms Taquin, Ms H annoyance, Ms Farih and Ms Creemers and Mr M. De Caluwe, which aims to enable people with low incomes to have such easy access to self-tests. The King may provide for an intervention for these persons. We have had a debate in the Committee on Health. The main questions and comments of members can be summarized as follows. Members welcomed the creation of a legal framework for the sale of rapid drug testing and the possibility of self-testing. Several members asked about the free and temporary availability of these tests to companies. Why a time limitation of such a measure? Some have expressed concern about the choice of a single test at this time. Several of our colleagues have expressed concern about timing. Will the tests be available when citizens come to ask for them? Will the necessary royal orders be ready so that pharmacists can recover the necessary amounts in case of increased intervention? As regards the reactions of the various colleagues, Mrs Depoorter asked the authors about various points. With regard to the limitation of the registration of the sale of self-tests in cases where the buyer is entitled to an increased intervention, it seemed important to him to have the data on the number of tests sold. It would be logical for positive test results to also be recorded by the pharmacy. The bill provides that in the event of a positive test, the patient must apply to the general practitioner or a testing centre for a PCR test. However, Ms Depoorter pointed out that PCR tests were relatively expensive. Would it not be better to send the patient back to his or her doctor only when the care is needed? What is the budget for PCR testing? She also expressed concern about the reasons why there were no plans to conduct rapid drug testing. Laurence Hmente stressed the need for good communication on how the tests should be used and the conditions for their use. In her view, practical details should be further elaborated so that rapid tests and self-tests can be used effectively and systematically as an additional tool in the screening strategy. Mrs Zanchetta, for her part, stressed the need for good consultation with pharmacists in order to ensure the best support for our citizens. It welcomes the implementation of a strategy for businesses. What is also important is the implementation of a positive test monitoring strategy. What is important at last, she says, is to involve pharmacists in the testing strategy. It was a provision to be reconsidered. It's done today. Mr. Creyelman requested that the deadline for registering a positive test be further clarified. It also regretted the absence of provisions concerning online sales and in particular the online sale of self-tests on foreign websites. He said he did not understand why in our country these self-tests were not available in supermarkets in particular. Mr. De Caluwé said that he thought it was a good idea that, initially, the sale of self-tests was limited to the pharmacy which, in his opinion, had an important role to play in raising the awareness of the citizen. Ms. Muylle asked the Minister about the management of planned stocks, the capacity and ease of supply for pharmacies. Ms. Merckx pointed out that PCR tests were not being used sufficiently and that there were gaps in the overall testing strategy. She also expressed her opposition to the rule that a person whose test is positive should contact his general practitioner. It would indeed be an additional task for these doctors who are already overburdened. For her part, Mrs Fonck argued for a much greater availability of self-tests, believing that the testing strategy is currently being undermined by a flagrant lack of ambition, because it does not allow us to get out of the semi-confinement in which our country has been plunged for so long. Ms. Rohonyi asked if pharmacists would also help interpret the test results. Mistakes could indeed be made if citizens were to take care of them themselves. Finally, it was also reported that there was not yet a good test strategy for schools. However, appropriate tests for children are already available. Five amendments were tabled. Mrs Fonck's Amendment No 1 was intended to provide citizens with free self-tests per week. Mrs Merckx presented Subamendment No 5 to offer two self-tests free of charge per week. Ms Depoorter tabled an amendment to register the sale of self-tests and their results by the pharmacist and another to buy the rapid tests and self-tests by the companies themselves, not by the public authorities. Finally, Amendment No 4 by Mrs Jiroflée et al. tended to provide for increased intervention for rightholders. Only the latter was adopted. The minister has, of course, provided various answers – I imagine he will not fail to present them to you – particularly with regard to the strategy. He pointed out that the first line of defence – testing of symptomatic people and those who had high-risk contact – remained essential. The second line of defence concerns testing in companies where it is impossible to telework. There is also an urgent need to implement it. Unfortunately, this testing is not practiced at the moment because of the administrative burden. Administrative obligations have therefore been eased. In addition, the Government has stimulated companies by making available the available stock of antigenic tests, which will be offered free of charge until the stock is exhausted. The Minister does not define which companies must test their workers, since all can benefit from this opportunity. Pilot projects are being developed for testing in schools. As for autotests, they are antigenic, not serological tests. The pharmacist plays an essential role, he says, in their delivery – a mission that supermarkets cannot fulfil. Indeed, the pharmacist is able to provide an explanation to the buyer and he processes the refunds. His role as well as that of general practitioners will continue to evolve over the months and be adapted by means of royal decrees, he says. The minister wants to prevent citizens from getting massive self-tests, which could happen if they were free of charge. Self-tests are only the third line of defence in the fight against coronavirus. The government will, however, assess whether self-tests can be sold in supermarkets in the future. The Minister does not believe that citizens who have the opportunity to resort to increased intervention will abuse it to resell the tests. After a positive self-test, it is still necessary to have a PCR test performed because it is more reliable and its result is recorded. It can also lead to tracing, which is still an essential element in measures to combat the pandemic. The vote on the law was adopted by 15 votes in favour with 2 abstentions. Colleagues, I am done tonight and can assure you that I have not slipped any April fish in my report. I wish you all a good Easter break, which will allow you to recharge your batteries. Take care, see you soon!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u132	Madam President, our group will support this proposal. Finally, an absurdity is corrected, which was approved in December, namely the fact that rapid tests should not be sold to doctors in the pharmacy, even though they have very close contact with them. I do not know what the seven additional health inspectors, who were appointed to check whether pharmacists were selling a test under or above the bar, will do now, but I suppose they will find a way to carry out their duties. It is the logic itself that we take that step in the test strategy, in which quick tests and self-tests will be used more. My group has been asking for this for a long time. A previous speaker just referred to the pilot projects in the schools. After the Easter holiday, the schools absolutely need to be open again, so that our children can enjoy education. We must then be able to carry out effective tests in clusters, whether pooled or not. For that you will certainly find a partner in us. We are also a partner when it comes to self-testing being sold in the pharmacy taking into account the low-threshold, ubiquitous and available fine-meshed network around the clock. A missed chance is that the speed test according to the bill cannot be taken in the official. I understand the point of discussion that not all pharmacists would be prepared to take rapid tests or that not everyone would have received training yet, but I would like to stress that it is necessary, when the exit plan is carried out, that rapid tests and self-tests are available everywhere and that the patients who do not see it, in order to carry it out themselves, can do so with the pharmacist. After all, that is the right direction. During the discussion in committee, a number of groups felt that it was not fast enough and would like to see self-tests sold in the supermarkets or via the Internet. But in my view, the path chosen in the bill is the right one. Running a self-test is not nothing, certainly not in the beginning. This must be done expertly; advice is needed and the pharmacist is the appropriate person. It is reported that cashiers in countries where the self-test is sold in the supermarket would not have been trained to give advice. An additional threshold could be introduced here in the form of training, but this is not the issue here. How would that actually work in practice? There are three possibilities if one buys a self-test without any pharmaceutical advice in the supermarket. Either the patient performs the test correctly and gets a negative or positive result. In the latter case, he or she shall seek, where appropriate, the necessary pharmaceutical or medical care from a care provider. Either the patient does not perform the test correctly and gets a false positive or a false negative result. Or we still see this in practice often with such tests, the patient buys a test in the supermarket and thus goes to the pharmacy to ask for explanations. I don't think that's the point. The pharmacist is the care provider and may be reimbursed, just as the supermarket will receive a fee, because there is an economic margin on the sale of those tests. In view of the need for care of patients in the early stages of the self-tests, I am absolutely in favour of selling in the pharmacy. I call on the proposers to register this also for a sufficiently long period of time, so that awareness among patients can grow. Indeed, self-tests cannot continue to sell ad aeternam in the pharmacy, but certainly in the early stages we will have to do so. The rapid tests and the self-tests, as the Minister has indicated in committee, will have to contribute to the test strategy but will also be able to answer the question about the regional differences that still exist today. I'll question that. We still see very clearly that the language border is a care border. The difference in the number of tests that are reduced per 100,000 inhabitants in the different regions is very large. Indeed, we need to focus on reducing this difference in order to reduce the positivity ratio in certain regions, and to better screen it. It is not so clear from the report, but a discussion point is how this bill came about. I continue to find it special that a royal decision is made first, then goes to the press and then comes to Parliament. That's not the way to go. Respect for the parliamentary debate is something that we have often raised in this House in this covid crisis. It is a problem, however, if a minister in a co-vid debate indicates that MEPs must raise a mandatory number. We are all here to ensure that our society gets the best out of this crisis. I find it problematic that people first say in the press that patients with increased benefits will be able to obtain a free self-test in the pharmacy and then have to work on the legal framework. It was communicated. If you know a pharmacist, you can ask how many phones there have been over the last few days about these free self-tests. The first delivery that is possible in the pharmacy is on 9 April, while on 30 March they communicated. If we really have the deep respect for the care sector, for the pharmacists, on which the Minister testified in committee, we will also ensure that the framework is there, and that the material is there. Speaking of which, ladies and gentlemen, those quick tests are self-tests with a shorter swab. We all know that. Those quick tests have already been validated by the FAGG. Very special is that at the time of communication one self-test was validated. The next day, the second self-test was validated. However, the self-tests of our Flemish SMEs, for which an application had already been made in March, have still not been validated today. The Minister did not reply to my question as to why. However, he indicates that the FAGG contacted the producers themselves. We have just had the debate here on support measures for our companies and SMEs, and we will approve them later. In that light, I do not understand why foreign groups see their self-tests validated at least about a week earlier than the local companies, who are also having a very difficult time during the covid crisis. That is absolutely not a detail, because today almost every pharmacist is looking for self-tests. In this case, time is certainly a competitive disadvantage for SMEs, which I would like to emphasise strongly. The fact that these companies and SMEs are not a priority in the draft law of this purple-green majority also becomes clear with another provision in the text, namely the free provision of 1 million self-tests to companies. It is said that there were 570,000 in stock and about 500,000 were bought. I have tabled my amendment in order to argue that the federal government should purchase rapid tests for its own use in institutions and organisations, but that it should allow companies to buy their rapid tests from companies with which they cooperate and work with an expense note. It's possible. However, if the federal government announces that it will receive free tests, then the local market will be re-drunk. I do not understand why the same parties advocate, on the one hand, support for local companies but, on the other hand, call for distribution by the government. The government turns out to be redder than blue again. I maintain my view that a patient with a positive test should not necessarily be referred to the doctor or to a test centre, as included in the bill. Between the KB and the bill there is also a bit of miscommunication. The doctor's call has become clear there. The GPs are over-questioned, they're exhausted from a year of covid. Now they will need to receive phones from patients who have mild symptoms, have a clear positive test, but have to take another PCR which is indeed expensive, but which also causes overload. Giving the pharmacist the right to register and immediately quarantine the patient is a much more efficient way of working. I'll come to my decision. We all know that the real exit step is the vaccination, but that runs on a snail's heel. Today we have received the leaked report from Europe, which makes it very clear that the realm of freedom is not yet upon us. That's too bad, because our people deserved this. The rapid and self-tests that we are now going to approve and put into circulation are the best we can do now. We need to create a perspective for our people. Now that we are told on the news sites about the mass troops in the Ter Kamerenbos, we all have to understand that this is the moment when we, as policymakers, must create that perspective. We can do this through well-defined pilot projects, where we will test and where we will check again after a possible meeting, after an organization. It's only by measuring that we'll know. By measuring and working in well-defined pilot projects, we can also see what measures we can support in the future. Then perhaps it will not be necessary to make non-essential items work by appointment and declare that we still need to check whether this has an effect or not.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u133	Madam President, we are pleased that, finally, there is an expansion of our testing strategy. As I said in committee, for self-tests, consultation with pharmacists will be essential in order to ensure the best support for citizens. In addition, the strategy is expanded with the use of antigenic testing within companies. This text must be seen as a first step to be taken quickly if the objectives are to be kept in focus. It should also be stressed that these tests, if positive, will have to be registered through the general practitioner or a testing centre for self-tests, and via occupational medicine for antigenic tests. Pharmacists will be able to deliver the latter to healthcare professionals when this has been prohibited to them so far. It was a provision to be reconsidered; it is now done!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u134	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, since the beginning of last year this house has been asking questions about tests, quick tests and self-tests. Especially when it came to self-testing, many of those questions were ignored with the element of the unreliability of those tests. If that were the case, we can discuss it, I think there will be little disagreement about it. The essence of the matter is that it could have been anticipated at that time that even if these rapid tests and self-tests were considered unreliable, the technology would not stand still and that the reliability of these tests would progress rapidly in the relatively short term. Colleagues know that this government, and indeed the previous government, could have prepared for this, but that has not happened. So this government has done a trick to act quickly. This is now being pushed through by having some Members submit a legislative proposal and call for urgency, when everyone realizes that this is actually a draft law, or should have been. What our good friend Girardin would have said about this is probably not very difficult to estimate, because I think there is little foresight in this case. There is no mention of the turbo announced by the Minister, it is rather a matter of being too late. Apart from the fact that this bill, or draft if you like, should have been on the shelf for at least six months, we can clearly see that this has had to go quickly. I will not repeat the whole reasoning of the committee's discussion, but I would like to quote them anyway. Witness to that are a number of vague concepts. Article 2 states that the user of a self-test which is subject to a positive result must communicate it to his general practitioner or to a test centre as soon as possible. I asked the Minister what that is, as soon as possible. Is that 24 hours? 48 hours? 72 hours? A week? A month? Six months? How are we supposed to interpret that? The Minister was so good to answer me this time. I was given the answer in committee: 'As soon as possible, Mr Creyelman, that is'. I was stunned by so much inventiveness, but in retrospect I'm glad he didn't define it as "without delay." Even without that ambiguity, the question remains open.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... How is a test determined and who will determine when a test has been taken? The Minister also had an answer to that, a nice answer even, I must admit. "We have faith in the civil sense of the people," it sounded in committee from the Minister's mouth. With so much confidence, so many beautiful words, in silence, without anyone seeing it, I shed a tear. I'll come back to that later. Article 4 of the original proposal provides that the King may link the provision of self-tests to..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Apart from the fact that that link was in stark contrast to the explanatory statement, in which it was stated that it is necessary for the pharmacist to register to which persons he delivers the self-test, we have asked ourselves with Flemish interest exactly what the registration of the identity of the person, a whole mouthful, meant. Was that the buyer who offered to the pharmacist? The explanatory statement stated that it concerns the person to whom the self-test is delivered, but also that explanation was and is not really a model of clarity. I have given several examples in committee. What should happen if a person presents himself in a pharmacy to collect a self-test for a person with disabilities? What if I pick up a self-test for my retired neighbor who's less well on her feet? What if, by way of friend service, I pick up a self-test for someone because I had to be at the pharmacist's? So the question arises as to whose name the registration had to be made. On top of that, the original legislative proposal could ask why the King should be able to limit the number of self-tests, because in the examples mentioned there was potentially no test for the person who offers himself to the pharmacy. The concept of "delivering" from the explanatory memorandum therefore needed further explanation. That was unclear to us and I think it would have been impractical and even unworkable. Fortunately, Mrs Jiroflée, Mrs Zanchetta, Mrs Taquin, Mrs Hennuy, Mrs Farih, Mrs Creemers and, meanwhile, Mr Robby De Caluwe, who has become inevitable in my speeches, came to the rescue by means of an amendment. They tabled an amendment which completely removed the concept of "registration of the person's identity."
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u135	The amendment, which is very good to us, of course, to several honours and glory of the Members who have tabled it, made it clear that the weakest in our society will be compensated for a self-test. The Minister's reply showed that they would be registered for that right to that allowance. Colleagues, that is, frankly, totally illogical in contrast to the original general registration. So despite the fact that the majority's bill is behind the facts of online reality, the self-tests can have been ordered online for months now, the amendment came to an end with our criticism that online orders are hardly verifiable, certainly not in the dark pits of what the Internet should be called. Exit the general registration, I'll just call it convenient. We would sometimes get the impression that the opposition's comments are being taken into account. However, I fear that I am more sober than that. The self-test will be reimbursed, according to the Minister's statements from 12 April 2021, not so long, in particular 11 days from today, to those who are not broad. That can only be welcomed. They will pay a brake charge of 1 euro per member of the family. The rest of the population pays the full pot, somewhere between 5 and 10 euros, which means a not bad profit for the pharmacist, given the purchase price between 2 and 5 euros. This can be questioned, especially in view of the already insured sales volumes of the self-test. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take a step back to the free self-tests that will be made available to the companies and, if I understand correctly in the committee discussions, will be ordered until 1 May 2021. The large companies with their own internal occupational health service can order these tests via that service. Other companies will need an external job prevention and protection service. Correct me if I am wrong; I even invite you to do so. However, I think I can say that companies with an internal occupational health service are usually not really the small ones. In fact, I think I can say that it is mostly about the larger companies. For them the tests are effective really free. However, this is not the case for small to medium-sized enterprises without an internal occupational health service. They should call on an external service for prevention and protection at work, such as Liantis and Mensura. It will not be unknown to you that these external services do not work for free. Unless I've missed the actuality of the last four hours, the only conclusion I can draw for the time being is that the tests aren't free for all companies. So much for the free story. In the case of the smaller companies, free means a few tens of euros per test. I would have liked to have questioned the Minister about this, but I shall do so at the next topical debate in committee, since Mr Depraetere thinks my question is useful enough to be put there. I would remind you of yesterday's debate on the pandemic law. Mr President, the key question was and is still for us why the sale of self-tests should be limited to the well-known list contained in the law and now extended to authorised pharmacies. As Mr Depoter said, these tests are much easier to carry out in our neighbouring countries. Our group is wondering why we cannot distribute these self-tests through, for example, supermarkets, as happens in Germany and the Netherlands. Why should we not consider it until after an evaluation? Mrs Depoorter, I do not want to start a well-known non-discussion, but you say that it is all too difficult and that people will not understand that. I do not know if the Germans and the Dutch are so much smarter than the Flemings or the Waals; I quote at least Professor Tom Coenye, a microbiologist, on Twitter, some of your fellow party members know something about this: "These self-tests are not nuclear physics, dear people. I've done a lot of them, and believe me freely: almost everyone can. You don't need a doctor or a pharmacist for that." I have no reason to doubt your words, Mrs Depoorter, but I have no reason to doubt the Professor's words either. I think the difference between you and me is just that you see it through a pharmacist's glasses and I see it through a wider range of glasses. Both opinions may be expressed, I believe.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u136	Mr Creyelman, I would like to clarify what I said, because I did not say that people will not understand. I have said that there are three possibilities: either people are going to use the tests properly and then there is no problem and we can ask ourselves about the need for care, or people are going to use the tests wrong and then we can ask ourselves about safety, or people are going to buy the tests in the supermarket and they are going to go to the pharmacy to ask how the test should be used. I ask you how many times you have gone to the bakery with a loaf of bread and with the question of cutting it for you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u137	I must disappoint you, but I bake my own bread. I'm not gonna do that with the vaccine and with the self-tests even less likely. However, what is at issue is not so much whether someone is going to buy their test from the pharmacist. I think it should be possible to do so everywhere, because they must be sold as widely as possible. You don't think so. You say people will forget how to use the tests. You assume that people use the self-test on the spot or that they have an awfully good memory. After all, I can now buy a self-test in a pharmacy, but only use it fourteen days later. You assume that my memory is so awfully good that I still know exactly what the pharmacist said. You will certainly give me a good explanation when you buy the test in your pharmacy, but the chance is very real that I will have forgotten it a little in 14 days and then I will come again. 100 people will not visit you or other pharmacies every day. We agree, however, that you are assisting people in your profession and that you will not be overly inconvenienced by it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u138	Mr Creyelman, I think you are confusing a number of things. As I said, a self-test has a short swap. We're never gonna do that in the pharmacy. A quick test has a long swap. We believe that this can be carried out in the official. I said it's a missed chance that we didn't take that with us. As far as the other discussion is concerned, I will certainly draw your attention to that in another debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u139	Mr Creyelman, do you come to your conclusion?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u140	Mr President, as you have come to the conclusion in the Committee on Army Purchases, I will do the same here. Sometimes I'm too cynical? The question was why we are not going to sell it in the supermarkets, or only after some time, after the evaluation announced by the Minister, but we are not sure when that will happen. The answer I read in the media was the fear of self-test parties. If fear of self-test parties is the real reason, the Flemish interest finds this evidence of a fundamental lack of trust in the population, in the famous civic spirit of the population. The Flemish Interest considers that self-tests should be as accessible as possible. As I said at the meeting in committee, this fits perfectly into the Minister's creed: testing, testing, testing. It also fits in with the opinion of the World Health Organization. The real reason is not the fear of self-test parties, not really an unjustified fear, but probably a hopefully, for the time being, lack of self-tests in our country. I would have liked to ask the Minister that question, but I shall do so in committee, with the approval of Mrs Depraetere. Can the Minister guarantee us that the self-tests sufficiently individually packaged will be available? I heard Roche has a limited stock of individually packaged self-tests available. A bulk pack contains 25 pieces. That's right with Abbott. There is even another problem, because in their 25-pack they only have a jar of reagent. Then I wonder whether our pharmacists should then repack those tests they obtain in bulk? Perhaps Mr Depoorter can answer that, because I really don't know. I'm just asking the question. I also wonder about the manual if these tests could be sold individually. I can imagine that someone who would like to read, if the very good and expert explanation of the pharmacist is no longer in his memory fourteen days later, and if he wants to know exactly what it is like using the manual. We assume that he will still be able to go to the pharmacist. In any case, I assume that the pharmacists will have to copy that manual or make one of their own. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, even if we do not have 100% certainty about a negative result with the self-tests, we are still getting the positive results. That is why we of Flemish Interest will abstain from this proposal, not because for one reason or another we would oppose the provision of rapid tests or self-tests to the public, but because we believe that these tests should be offered as widely as possible. That, and nothing else, is the reason for our abstention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u141	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to comment on the way in which this legislative proposal has taken place in Parliament. After all, it was very special that the Minister was present at the discussion in committee and that the defence of this bill was as if it were a draft. He replied to all the arguments. The day before the first discussion in committee, he had already explained everything in the media, as if everything had already been decided and Parliament would certainly approve this proposal. In this way, the opposition was pushed aside, although it introduced some interesting slopes in this debate. However, the Minister indicated that the proposal was urgent and that in this way it was possible to avoid the somewhat more difficult slope of a draft law so that the text could be adopted more quickly. I have some questions because we all know that Professor Goossens already submitted the requested note to the Minister at the end of October on the use of rapid tests and self-tests. However, that note has remained dead letter and now five months later we are coming forward quickly, quickly with a legislative proposal. I come to a second point. We will support this bill, but I wonder to what extent it will solve the problems with our testing strategy. Aren't we just risking magnifying the chaos? Is this not a part of the responsibility for failing policies placed on the citizen by allowing the self-tests? We can do up to 150,000 PCR tests a day today, but the big problem is that we only used about 66,000 of them last week, even though we're in the third wave. This proposal will not really change anything, but people with a positive self-test will also have to undergo PCR tests. However, is that the most useful way to use that PCR capacity? We believe that much stronger efforts should be made to test asymptomatic people and people who have long been suffering from symptoms. That's where the PCR tests are most useful. This proposal will not change the failing test strategy. Another problem is that the rapid antigen tests are not being used enough. A solution is effective that pharmacists who can now sell to, for example, general practitioners, physicists or other healthcare providers. The real problem is that there is not enough staff to do these tests, either at the GP or in the test centres. In my region, for example, there is a higher demand for tests. People have to wait for days at some point before they can get an appointment for those tests. Of course, there is no answer to that either. Then the last problem will be solved, so that the self-tests were still not allowed in Belgium. Another problem on which the legislative proposal is a little bit concerned, but which really does not come up with a fundamental solution, is that there is not enough testing, either in companies or in schools. Now free tests will be made available until 1 May. The big problem, of course, is that we still don't have a plan here. Each company should really have an outbreak and a preventive test plan, in consultation with the workers' representatives, of course, in the committees on prevention and safety at work. We should also have a test strategy for the coming months, for example with the reduction of telework. How is this possible with possible recourse to a preventive testing strategy in the companies? There is actually no answer to that in this bill either. Meanwhile, a lot of free tests have already been ordered. Will they really be used efficiently? It's a bit of panic football from the majority through that third wave and the high number of clusters in the companies. We should have done this job months ago. So there is still no solution. Self-testing can be a plus by making it available to the population. For us, the most important point remains that who really needs a test because of certain indications or in certain situations, gets that test. I am referring above all to the lack of a good preventive testing policy in both our schools and companies. I think about using test canisters. There's very little of that. It was one of the projects in Professor Goossens' memo. Very interesting, but we'll just sit there and starve. If self-tests are possible, we think it is important that they, like PCR tests and antigen tests, are free of charge. We have a failing government test policy, but now the patient can test himself. We have therefore tabled an amendment to provide people with a free self-test twice a week, until the date of vaccination. In this way, we can effectively ensure that people who want to test themselves can do the same. If you have a positive self-test, you must contact your doctor or test centre. We do not agree with that. The general practitioners are already very overloaded and this causes extra overload. People who are sick or have questions for their general practitioner should be able to continue to go there. In any case, we will have a lot of questions about the self-tests, as we are also receiving a lot of questions from our patients today about the vaccination strategy. We cannot always answer that because there are many shortcomings in the strategy. It's not the GP the government secretary has to play. It would have made sense for someone who tested positive to just call the tracking and report his test results. For example, the PCR test may be prescribed to that person and his close contacts and thus the tracing can be continued where necessary. In our view, this is not the task of the general practitioner.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u142	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this proposal is actually very simple; it means nothing more or nothing less than an extension of test policy and testing strategy. The line of defense against COVID-19 is threefold: testing, tracing and quarantine. At the beginning of the pandemic, high-risk contacts were mainly tested and later patients with symptoms, with rapid testing in schools and companies. Now we're in the middle of a next phase. We have learned a great deal in the past year. We learned that testing is crucial to combat the pandemic. A great deal of progress has also been made in the field of technology, particularly as regards the quality of tests, over a year. So we can now move on to the next stage. It is mainly about antigen tests, available from the pharmacist for health care professionals, and the self-tests that people can use if they feel there is a need for them for any reason. We have been able to ensure equality in the pharmacy by means of an amendment of our own from the proposers to the proposal. We consider this to be particularly important. The King may determine the allowance for low-income persons so that they can equally claim self-tests and assume their responsibilities in this matter. Anyone who needs a self-test can obtain it in the same way. At this stage of the pandemic, that is important. As I said, it's actually just a further step in the strategy of testing. In this way, we are gradually getting closer, step by step, to the end of the crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u143	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it was time to incorporate self-tests and rapid tests into the arsenal we have to fight covid-19. We have been calling for this for a long time, since we believe that an ambitious testing strategy needs to be put in place. On the one hand, it should be based on the diagnosis of people with symptoms via a PCR test accompanied by effective tracing and isolation in the event of a positive test. On the other hand, we also want to rely on massive preventive screening of the population through the use of auto-tests and rapid antigenic tests. This is what Austria has been doing for many months, for example. Unfortunately, compared to this, the bill provides for a testing strategy that is still too weak. The majority's choice of self-tests does not seem satisfactory to us. You are planning a cost of one euro for the most vulnerable, but for many families, the purchase of these self-tests could prove to be very heavy financially. That would therefore not be implemented. That's the risk. If one imagines a family of five, parents and three teenagers, and a cost of ten euros per self-test, it would amount to fifty euros per week for the purchase of one test per person and thus two hundred euros per month for this family. For many families who do not benefit from the increased intervention, this will be a very important burden. Your strategy is therefore problematic if you want to use this lever effectively to detect and isolate infected people as quickly as possible. Your strategy simply won't make it. The strategy that is being put in place must encourage citizens to have the reflex of resorting to self-tests on a regular basis. Mass preventive screening can be an effective lever in controlling the epidemic through better control of contaminations and in managing the de-confinination strategy for the gradual resumption of certain activities, until there is a sufficient rate of vaccination. The more we control the situation, the more we can unwind with a steady pace. But for this, self-tests must be accessible to all. That is why we tabled an amendment providing that every citizen has the right to obtain free self-tests per week on presentation of his identity card, and allowing the King the possibility of changing the number of self-tests per period. We also question the government's strategy for massive testing in companies and institutions. The minister said during the debates that the proposal "for public companies and services is that they are entitled to rapid antigenic tests up to eight tests per worker who cannot do telework (four weeks, two tests per week), that the demand must be submitted before 1 May and that the supply is limited to the stock we have (570,000 tests plus one order in progress of 500,000 additional). After that, it is employers or managers of public enterprises who have to pay. The idea is to launch a campaign by giving a boost via free, but the idea is not to continue like this." This approach seems problematic to us. You only support businesses for four weeks. You are not planning anything for the sectors that are not currently on telework, for all those companies that are also in very difficult situations. We believe that massive preventive testing in companies must be integrated into a strong public health policy and that the authorities must empower themselves to carry it out. Therefore, and because of the unambitious nature of this proposal, while a strong testing strategy must be one of the pillars of an effective fight against the pandemic in order to better control contamination from now on and, in the coming weeks, to accompany the strategy of deconfinition, we will abstain from the proposed text.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u144	Ladies and gentlemen, I will not be long given the late hour, and given the intensity of the debates we had in committee on Tuesday on this bill. However, I had to intervene to highlight the progress of this text in our crisis management, not to say the 180-degree turn. My group has been asking for months, particularly from the De Block and De Backer ministers, and then from Minister Vandenbroucke, to include rapid tests and self-tests, not in a few pilot projects set up here and there, but in our testing strategy. Both Karine Moykens, chairman of the inter-federal testing and tracing committee, and Mr Herman Goossens, the microbiologist, recalled this during their hearing in a special committee covid, and in a way it is impossible to be clearer. I wanted to quote Mr Goossens: "The rapid tests are quite reliable. Pilot projects have always been a success and, yet, they have never been generalized. Of course the law of 22 December 2020 has regulated the use of these but it is far too strict." In other words, while we have known for a year that testing, isolating and tracing is the basic triptych of our crisis management, which was recently added to vaccination, we still do not use all the weapons at our disposal. As much last spring I could understand the prudence regarding rapid tests and self-tests, and therefore the preference given to naso-pharyngeal swabs and PCR technology, both today, rapid tests and self-tests proved their effectiveness. Today, therefore, we are acting with months of delay, months of which the virus has clearly benefited. However, today, as I said, we finally have a testing strategy based on three lines of defence: PCR tests, regular screening in companies with rapid antigenic tests, and self-tests. Pharmacists will finally be able to deliver the rapid tests so that the front-line healthcare staff can perform them. The law of 22 December 2020, which we had abstained from because of their exclusion, is therefore being corrected. It was indeed essential to respect the expertise of pharmacists, especially for self-tests. If these are issued without informed advice, they can give users a false sense of security. Any citizen who has to use these self-tests must be aware that a negative test does not allow him to no longer respect the barrier gestures. It must also be aware of the basic rules governing the proper use, reading and interpretation of these tests. Pharmacists will therefore play a crucial role in this information. I hope that the package or package leaflet will contain them as well. Companies will also be able to use rapid and self-test tests to allow the sectors to recover and workers to work calmly, without this ball in the belly. This is in line with the promise made by the Consultation Committee on 5 March, to mobilise massively the rapid and self-test tests with a view to resuming the sectors to be stopped by 1 May at the earliest. The Minister of Health told me in committee that the companies and institutions that will benefit from it must be heard broadly. I therefore assume that cultural activities, sports, fairs and horeca are part of it. But is this inaccuracy in the text not a source of legal uncertainty? Will these be quick tests used in pilot projects or recovery protocols? I am all the more concerned about the fact that, as I have said, the resumption is announced by 1 May at the earliest, the deadline which has been set for applications for reimbursement of the same tests. These sectors are thus deprived of the weapons that are indispensable for their recovery, before the effectiveness of this resumption. This issue is all the more acute given that the latest RAG report does not recommend self-tests for mass events. The minister finally stated that these tests cannot be used, for example, to allow entry into a public event or restaurant. On the other hand, self-tests could, according to the Minister's responses in committee, help ensure that restaurant staff, for example, are tested to ensure that they can safely accommodate customers. I understand, therefore, that the minister wishes to distinguish between rapid tests and self-tests. On the one hand, it promotes the use of rapid tests in companies and institutions, understood in the broad sense and thus encompassing cultural, sports but also fairs, horeca and others. We can therefore conclude that the rapid tests could very well be used for the reopening of these sectors. On the other hand, the minister wishes to prohibit self-tests as a means of entering a public event or restaurant, which is therefore part of the broad notion of institution. The problem is that this distinction, which is quite understandable, does not appear in the operative part of the bill. The proposal states that, in the context of repeat testing in companies and institutions, only the results of rapid tests and self-tests which are positive are notified to Sciensano. The other problem is that this bill gives the government broad latitude in terms of terms, conditions and reimbursement for these tests, precisely at a time when the government is required to include Parliament in its reflections on crisis management. Worse, this bill is in fact intended only to create the legal basis on which will be based, not a future royal decree, but a royal decree that was already adopted on 24 March. With regard to self-tests in particular, it is known that they will be particularly useful for detecting supercontaminants. However, the bill introduces a very restrictive view of their use, since it will be necessary to go through a royal decree to define the conditions and rules for the provision of self-tests and the number of self-tests per period. I must also point out, like some of my colleagues, that their cost raises a real question of financial accessibility. Indeed, if the unit price remains to be defined, it will vary between 5 and 10 euros, against for example 4,40 euros in Lidl supermarkets in Germany. A cost which will, of course, be only one euro for a maximum of two tests per week and per person making up the household from 12 April, but only for those who benefit from the intervention plus social security. In other words, for families who do not receive a specific allowance, who are not enrolled in a mutual benefit under a particular status or who are just above the income ceiling of more or less 1,657 euros gross per month, this test will be paid. For a large family, it will be a big budget. Today, therefore, we will finally use the weapons at our disposal, but at the same time we will prevent the most disadvantaged – or at least those who do not meet the very strict conditions of this text – from benefiting from them. Families are at risk of being put in trouble, as the minister acknowledged in committee. We will therefore support the amendments tabled by colleagues in the PTB and the CDH, which are intended to allow every citizen to obtain a free self-test per week in the case of the amendment tabled by colleagues in the CDH, and two per week, until he or she has been vaccinated, in the case of the amendment tabled by colleagues in the PTB. In conclusion, we support the objective pursued by this bill, but we cannot but regret the vagueness of its terms of use, but also its lack of ambition. That is why we will abstain.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u145	Mr President, in the second round I wanted to give you something. It is indeed a pity that the Minister is not present. After all, it is an important fact. First of all, Mr Creyelman is gone, but according to the FAGG all tests must be packed separately. So that's no problem at all. However, I understand that the conditions communicated to the different producers that could register for approval of the tests were published on 21 March 2021. One of the conditions is the submission of three clinical analyses, which prove the efficacy of the test without guidance. I repeat, three clinical analyses. The labs are incredibly busy right now. Our local producers aren't getting in anywhere. It is impossible at such a short time to organise those three clinical analyses in a sufficiently large spectrum. I am now asking the members of the government whether this means that the FAGG has provided additional information to the large producers, which have already been validated, and not to the smaller SMEs, who tell me that the instructions for use did not include that those three clinical analyses had to be communicated without guidance at the time of registration. That is a very important fact. I have often said that the lack of transparency in the FAGG about the decision-making boom is huge. I would therefore ask the government to investigate this matter. At least I'll check it out. We have 14 days to do so. However, if it turns out to be true, it is insider trading, which seems to me to be a serious fact.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u146	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u147	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1886/4) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1886/4) The bill has 6 articles. The bill has 6 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u148	• 6 "Catherine Fonck" (1886/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u149	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved article as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled, the Rule that has been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u150	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Vanessa Matz, Catherine Fonck, Maxime Prévot, Georges Dallemagne, Josy Arens. The Committee on Justice proposes to reject this bill. (295/4) The Justice Committee proposes that this bill be rejected. (295/4) In accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary session will decide on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and possibly the authors. Pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary shall decide on this proposal for rejection after hearing the rapporteur and, where appropriate, the proposers. The rapporteur is Mrs Gilson who refers to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u151	Mr President, I would like to resubmit this bill to this House because I believe that, beyond the political divides, it shares a goal that all political groups share, that of relieving single-parent families. The purpose of this proposal is simply to allow the judge to include in his judgment the delegation of sums in order to avoid families from having to repeat an approach to the justice system in order to obtain this delegation of sums and/or to go directly to the SECAL, which is known to be particularly overloaded. It is a simplification for these families to obtain a more easy judgment for obtaining their maintenance claims. I hope that since the four weeks which separate us from the vote of the Committee on Justice, things have matured. We must realize that this does not cost the state a euro. This could even bring him back by relieving the justice system, by relieving the SECAL. The aim is to give the judge – and not the obligation – the opportunity to record this important element according to the situation of the creditor and the debtor. This is simply to allow single-parent families to be relieved in a daily life that is often very harsh, especially during this pandemic period.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u152	No one can speak any more. No other speaker may speak. The vote on the proposal to reject this bill will take place at a later date. The vote on the proposal to reject this bill will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u153	In accordance with the decision of the plenary meeting of 4 February 2021, an appeal for candidates was published in the Moniteur belge of 15 February 2021 for a term as a French-speaking male substitute member of the Board of Directors of UNIA. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 4 February 2021, a call for candidates was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 15 February 2021 for a mandate of French-speaking male alternate member of the Board of Directors of UNIA.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u154	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 31 March 2021, I propose that: - declare the late candidature of Mr Gaël Waonry inadmissible and - forwarding the candidatures to the political groups. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 31 March 2021, I propose: - dismiss Mr Gaël Waonry's late candidacy as inadmissible, and - to deliver the applications to the political groups. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u155	In accordance with the decision of the plenary meeting of 11 February 2021, an appeal to the candidates was published in the Moniteur belge of 18 February 2021 for the appointment of an alternate member of the French doctor of the Central Board of Prison Supervision. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 11 February 2021, a call for candidates was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 18 February 2021 for the mandate of French-speaking, deputy physician of the Central Prison Supervisory Board. No applications were submitted. No applications were submitted. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 31 March 2021, I propose that you publish a new call for candidates to the Belgian Monitor for the appointment of a French-speaking alternate member of the Central Prison Supervision Board as a doctor. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 31 March 2021, I propose that you publish a new appeal to candidates in the Belgian Official Journal for the mandate of French-speaking, deputy member of the Central Supervisory Board for the Prisons with the status of doctor. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. In accordance with the decision of the plenary meeting of 18 March 2021, a call for candidates was published among the Dutch-speaking effective members with a Master's degree in Law for the term of office of the office of the Central Prison Supervision Board (mandate of Ms. Valérie Arickx). In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 18 March 2021, a call for candidates was published among the Dutch-speaking effective members, who hold a Master's degree in Law, for the mandate of a member of the Bureau of the Central Supervisory Board for the Prison Service ( mandate of Ms Valérie Arickx). No applications were submitted. No applications were submitted. By e-mail dated March 26, 2021, Mr. Tony Van Parys resigned as an effective member. Mr. Marc Allegaert, in possession of a master's degree in law, will complete his term. By e-mail dated 26 March 2021, Mr Tony Van Parys shall submit his resignation as an effective member. He will be succeeded by Marc Allegaert, who has a Master's degree in Law. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 31 March 2021, I propose that you ask Mr. Marc Allegaert whether he wishes to run as a member of the Bureau. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 31 March 2021, I propose that you ask Mr Marc Allegaert if he wishes to apply for the mandate of a member of the Bureau. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. Mr. Raf Gerits, who was to replace Ms. Valérie Arickx as an effective member, communicated by e-mail of 25 March 2021 that he submitted his resignation with immediate entry into force as an alternate member of the Central Prison Supervision Board. Mr Raf Gerits, who would replace Ms Valérie Arickx as an effective member, resigned by e-mail of 25 March 2021 with immediate effect as an alternate member of the Central Supervisory Board for the Prison Service. Since Ms Valérie Arickx cannot be replaced by an alternate member, the Chamber must appoint a new effective member and a new alternate member. Since Ms Valérie Arickx cannot be replaced by an alternate member, the Chamber should appoint a new effective member and a new alternate member. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 31 March 2021, I propose that you publish a new call for candidates to the Belgian Monitor for the term of office of an effective Dutch-speaking member and for the term of a Dutch-speaking alternate member of the Central Prison Supervision Board. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 31 March 2021, I propose that you publish a new appeal to candidates in the Belgian Official Journal for the mandate of an effective Dutch-speaking Member and of an alternate Dutch-speaking Member of the Central Supervisory Board for the Prison Service. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. By letter of 23 March 2021, Mr. Ralf Bas resigned as an effective member and member of the Bureau of the Central Prison Supervision Board, with entry into force on 1 May 2021. By letter of 23 March 2021, Mr Ralf Bas shall resign as an effective member and member of the Office of the Central Supervisory Board for the Prison Service, with effect from 1 May 2021. Pursuant to Article 24, § 7, paragraph 3, of the Law of Principles of 12 January 2005 concerning the Prison Administration and the Legal Status of Prisoners, a member whose term of office ends before the expiry of the five-year term is replaced by his alternate for the remainder of the term of office. Having regard to Article 24, Paragraph 7, paragraph 3, of the Basic Law of 12 January 2005 on the prison system and the legal status of the detainees, the Member whose term of office expires before the expiry of the five-year period for the remainder of the term of office shall be replaced by his alternate. During the plenary session on 28 February 2019, Mr Pieter Houbey was appointed alternate to Mr Ralf Bas. He will complete the term of effective member of Mr. Ralf Bas. At the plenary session of 28 February 2019, Mr Pieter Houbey was appointed as alternate member of Mr Ralf Bas. He will complete the mandate of effective member of Mr Ralf Bas. In accordance with Article 24, § 7, paragraph 4, of the above-mentioned Law, the Chamber must without delay appoint a new alternate member in the event of the vacancy of an alternate seat. In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Article 24 (7) of the abovementioned Act, the Chamber should immediately appoint a new alternate member in the event of the opening of an alternate member's seat. The House must therefore appoint a new alternate member for Mr. Pieter Houbey. The Chamber should therefore appoint a new alternate for Mr Pieter Houbey. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 31 March 2021, I propose that you publish a call for candidates to the Belgian Monitor for the term of Dutch-speaking alternate member of the Central Prison Supervision Board. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 31 March 2021, I propose that you publish a call to candidates in the Belgian Official Journal for the mandate of Dutch-speaking Deputy Member of the Central Supervisory Board for the Prisons. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. Since Mr. Ralf Bas is a member of the Bureau of the Central Prison Supervision Board, it is up to the Chamber to appoint a new member of the Bureau from among the actual members. As Mr Ralf Bas is a member of the Office of the Central Supervisory Board for the Prisons, the Chamber should appoint a new Bureau member among the effective members. In accordance with article 24, paragraph 7, paragraph 1, of the above-mentioned Act, the Chamber shall appoint, from among the actual members of the Central Prison Supervision Board, an office composed of two French-speaking members and two Dutch-speaking members. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 24 (7) of the aforementioned Act, the Chamber shall appoint an office of two Dutch-speaking and two French-speaking members among the effective members of the Central Supervisory Board for the Prisons. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 31 March 2021, I propose that you publish a call for candidates from among the effective Dutch-speaking members for the term of office of the bureau of the Central Prison Supervision Board. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 31 March 2021, I propose that you publish a call to candidates among the Dutch-speaking effective members for the mandate of a member of the Bureau of the Central Prison Supervisory Board. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. By e-mail of 26 March 2021, Mr. Tony Van Parys presented his resignation as an effective member of the Central Prison Supervision Board, which entered into force on 17 April 2021. By e-mail dated 26 March 2021, Mr Tony Van Parys shall submit his resignation as an effective member of the Central Supervisory Board for the Prison Service, with effect from 17 April 2021. Pursuant to Article 24, § 7, paragraph 3, of the Law of Principles of 12 January 2005 concerning the Prison Administration and the Legal Status of Prisoners, a member whose term of office ends before the expiry of the five-year term is replaced by his alternate for the remainder of the term of office. Having regard to Article 24, Paragraph 7, paragraph 3, of the Basic Law of 12 January 2005 on the prison system and the legal status of the detainees, the Member whose term of office expires before the expiry of the five-year period for the remainder of the term of office shall be replaced by his alternate. During the plenary session on 28 February 2019, Mr.Marc Allegaert was appointed alternate to Mr. Tony Van Parys. He will complete his term as an effective member of Mr. Tony Van Parys. At the plenary session of 28 February 2019, Mr Marc Allegaert was appointed as alternate member of Mr Tony Van Parys. He will complete the mandate of effective member of Mr Tony Van Parys. In accordance with Article 24, § 7, paragraph 4, of the above-mentioned Law, the Chamber must without delay appoint a new alternate member in the event of the vacancy of an alternate seat. In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Article 24 (7) of the abovementioned Act, the Chamber should immediately appoint a new alternate member in the event of the opening of an alternate member's seat. The Chamber must therefore appoint a new alternate member for Mr. Marc Allegaert. The Chamber should therefore appoint a new alternate for Mr Marc Allegaert. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 31 March 2021, I propose that you publish a call for candidates to the Belgian Monitor for the term of Dutch-speaking alternate member of the Central Prison Supervision Board; In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 31 March 2021, I propose that you publish a call to candidates in the Belgian Official Journal for the mandate of Dutch-speaking Deputy Member of the Central Supervisory Board for the Prisons. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u156	You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. If there are no comments on this subject, I consider that these proposals have been taken into account. I refer the proposals to the committees responsible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If there is no objection, I consider the consideration of these proposals to be adopted. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be forwarded to the committees responsible. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u157	Mrs Matz, you are asking for the urgency of Bill 1881/1 extending until 30 September 2021 the measures taken by the law of 15 July 2020 to improve the situation of workers in the cultural sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u158	Madam Chair, we are calling for an urgent bill to extend the measures we adopted last July with respect to artists. These are measures relating to unemployment. We propose, through this bill, to support the cultural sector which needs it until the end of September, considering the very uncertain timetable for the resumption of activities in this sector. We are calling for urgency because these measures have come to an end and it is important that this sector be supported at least until the end of September.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u159	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u160	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on Energy, the Environment and Climate of 23 March 2021. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Committee on Energy, Environment and Climate Policy of 23 March 2021. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 115/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Bert Wollants; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr. Samuel Cogolati. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 115/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Bert Wollants; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Samuel Cogolati. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u161	Madam Chair, I can't connect my device to the voting system; I get a message of error. My votes will be in line with those of my group. I ask you to take this into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u162	Of which act.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u163	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to the core exit and everything that has to do with it, the government is heading a bit blind in that it is not preparing for an alternative. The government agreement does provide for a decision to be taken in November, but the government does not seem to take any steps to prepare it today, as if we should regard it as a small footnote. It would be wise to start talking to the operator today, so that the operator should not start negotiating with the knife on the throat in November, but this government does not. It chooses to make every effort to build the gas plants, where we do not yet have any confirmation today that the European Commission will approve this construction and that the project will be affordable. Despite Mrs Marghem's near-vote, I have to say that the debate pointed in a slightly different direction a few hours ago and that it is absolutely not evident. If you're wise, take action today. I understand that the Minister is doing her utmost to shut down the nuclear power stations, but doing your best does not mean that it is happening. I do my utmost every day not to set my house on fire, but I still pay for my fire insurance. You have to take that step. So you can opt for a motion of recommendation which is well prepared and which ensures that we do not tear our pants financially in the late preparation by the government or you can do what Mr Cogolati does with his simple motion, and that is not paying his fire insurance. I look forward to your vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u164	Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Résultat du vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u165	Yes 79 Yes No. 56 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 135 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u166	Madam President, Mrs Cécile Thibaut has connection problems, but she agrees with the group's voting behaviour, which is slightly less new than with Mrs Marghem.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u167	Madam President, my colleague Ben Segers, too, has connection problems and agrees with the group. He's trying to connect as fast as he can.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u168	Of which act.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u169	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u170	Yes 76 Yes No. [[17]] No Abstentions 40 Abstensions Total 133 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1875/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1875/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[(Non]] [[)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u171	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u172	Yes 97 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 41 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1827/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1827/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[(Non]] [[)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u173	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u174	Yes 139 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1816/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1816/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u175	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u176	Yes 105 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 36 Abstensions Total 141 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1882/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1882/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[(Non]] [[)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u177	Vote on Amendment No 1 by Wouter Vermeersch cs on Article 12. (1851/14) Vote on Amendment No 1 by Wouter Vermeersch cs to Article 12. (1851/14) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u178	Yes [[42]] Yes No. 101 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 143 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and the Article 12 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 12 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u179	Vote on Amendment No 3 by Catherine Fonck on article 24. (1851/14) Vote on Amendment No 3 by Catherine Fonck to Article 24. (1851/14) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u180	Yes [[35]] Yes No. 83 No Abstentions 24 Abstensions Total 142 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and the Article 24 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 24 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 4 by Nadia Moscufo cs to insert an article 34/1(n). (1851/14) Vote on Amendment No 4 by Nadia Moscufo cs to insert an Article 34/1(n). (1851/14) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u181	Yes [[14]] Yes No. 125 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 139 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Rule 36. (1851/13) Vote on Rule 36. (1851/13) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u182	Yes 102 Yes No. [[14]] No Abstentions 26 Abstensions Total 142 Total Consequently, the Court adopts Article 36. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts rule 36. Vote on Rule 37. (1851/13) Vote on Article 37. (1851/13) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u183	Consequently, the Court adopts Article 37. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts rule 37. Vote on Rule 38. (1851/13) Vote on Article 38. (1851/13) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u184	Consequently, the Court adopts Article 38. Accordingly, the Board adopts rule 38. Vote on Amendment No 5 by Vanessa Matz cs on article 63. (1851/14) Vote on Amendment No 5 to Rule 63 by Vanessa Matz cs. (1851/14) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u185	Yes 36 Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 23 Abstensions Total 140 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 63 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 63 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 6 by Vanessa Matz cs to insert an article 63/1(n). (1851/14) Vote on Amendment No 6 by Vanessa Matz cs to insert an Article 63/1(n). (1851/14) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u186	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 7 by Vanessa Matz cs to insert an article 63/2(n). (1851/14) Vote on Amendment No 7 by Vanessa Matz cs to insert an Article 63/2(n). (1851/14) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Is it possible to consider that the Is the result of the previous vote valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u187	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 8 from Vanessa Matz cs to insert Articles 63/3(n) and 63/4(n) (in main order). (1851/14) Vote on Amendment No 8 by Vanessa Matz cs to insert Articles 63/3(n) and 63/4(n) (in main order). (1851/14) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u188	Yes [[38]] Yes No. 107 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 146 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u189	Vote on Amendment No 9 from Vanessa Matz cs to insert an article 63/3(n) (in additional order). (1851/14) Vote on Amendment No 9 by Vanessa Matz cs to insert an Article 63/3(n) (in subsidiary order). (1851/14) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u190	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 2 by Ellen Samyn cs to insert an article 66/1(n). (1851/14) Vote on amendment No. 2 by Ellen Samyn cs to insert an article 66/1(n). (1851/14) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u191	Yes [[19]] Yes No. 125 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 144 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u192	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u193	Yes 102 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 36 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1851/15) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1851/15) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u194	Vote on Amendment No 6 by Catherine Fonck on article 4. (1886/5) Vote on Amendment No 6 by Catherine Fonck to Article 4. (1886/5) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u195	Yes [[19]] Yes No. 82 No Abstentions 42 Abstensions Total 143 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 7 by Sophie Merckx on Article 4. (1886/5) Vote on Amendment No 7 by Sophie Merckx to Article 4. (1886/5) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u196	Yes [[14]] Yes No. 88 No Abstentions 43 Abstensions Total 145 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and the Article 4 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 4 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u197	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u198	Yes 117 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 25 Abstensions Total 142 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (1886/6) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (1886/6) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u199	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Vote result / Uitslag van de steming.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u200	Yes 108 Yes Non 37 No. Abstensions 0 Abstentions Total 145 Total Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Bill No. 295/1 is therefore rejected. Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The Bill No. 295/1 was therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-01-definitief-55-plenair-ip097x.u201	The sitting is closed. Next meeting Wednesday 21 April 2021 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Wednesday, April 21, 2021 at 2.15 p.m.
