ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic572x.u1	Minister, I would like to address a number of questions this morning in direct connection with these horrific floods in the region of Liège and elsewhere in Belgium and particularly in my region. I would like to know how we can remedy the problems, and you have been able to learn about them, A month and a half after the disaster, many companies have not yet received an expert's visit to see and estimate the damage. After having experienced difficult months due to the coronavirus, these independents have to face the unknown again and ask themselves more existential questions than ever before. Minister, my first question is whether you could play your role to see how this problem can be dealt with quickly. My second request relates to the Sabam's invoice received by the horeca sector asking it to pay a fairly large amount for a specified period of time. This amount is important for those who are struck by the floods, hit by the coronavirus and by the fact that they have to close their establishment. Could you also raise the Sabam's awareness of this specific issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic572x.u2	Minister, once it is not customary, Mrs Jadin and I ask questions on a subject that is of great interest to us, namely the floods and their consequences. Given that we come from the same region, it is normal for us to ask you about different aspects of what has happened and what we are experiencing today. My colleague has already touched a word of it. As you know, insurance and experts are expected to stand firm on the ground today, and particularly in the region of Liège. For a few weeks now, we have heard about many independents who have not yet seen the slightest expert on the ground to see the damage and advance their disaster file. This is damaging, on the one hand, because most self-employed people have already suffered greatly from the various measures put in place to combat the spread of coronavirus. Today, seeing these files hanging out, and those experts who don't arrive on the ground, is a new stressor for a series of independents who ultimately want one thing: to restart their activity as quickly as possible. Therefore, Minister, I would have liked to know if you were aware of this situation in the areas affected today by a large number of victims, and particularly by some of the independents. I would also like to ask you about the possible aids that you might consider to speed up the procedures with insurance companies and for greater mobilisation of experts, particularly on the affected land. The second part of the question that I have tabled concerns in particular those independents of the horeca sector, who, as we know, have been particularly affected by the measures that we have put in place over the past year. Unfortunately, this horeca sector, already hit by the covid, is again stressed by a major event that arrives in the mailboxes: namely the invoice of the Sabam. As you know, I support the artists and therefore I find it quite normal that this process exists. Indeed, the merchants broadcast music and it is logical that at some point part of this remuneration goes back to the artistic sector. Nevertheless, is this the right time to charge this service to the horeca sector which has mostly not opened during this year? However, some receive the annual bill as usual, while their restaurant or coffee has, for some, been opened only a few days or weeks. Minister, could you consider providing one-time assistance to the horeca institutions that have already been heavily affected? Could you tell me if the institutions are required to pay the invoice received when they have been through this closing period, as I have just mentioned? Finally, is it possible or is it envisaged, in your opinion, that consultation with the Sabam, so that everyone can find his or her own account? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic572x.u3	Minister, I join my colleagues Jadin and Chanson's questions. Although I do not come from the same province as they are, I come from the same Region. The July floods affected many independents, who lost equipment as a result of the tragedy. Many people fear losing part of their clientele if they do not quickly recover the tools that allow them to work. The deadlines provided by suppliers are long: according to a report by RTBF, some independents will have to wait until March next year. On the other hand, insurance experts are waiting, so the self-employed are in a state of uncertainty and do not know whether they will receive compensation. Minister, what are you thinking about to urge the experts to see the damage to the self-employed affected by the floods more quickly? Is it possible to force insurers to meet a maximum time limit to send an expert to the victims? Second, self-employed workers are not even certain to be covered by their insurers, who regularly indicate in small print that they do not cover damage caused by natural disasters. It is therefore uncertainty that reigns. But self-employed people need a strong signal. Minister, can you guarantee that the self-employed who pay insurance will be fully covered for the damage they have suffered? Finally, can you assure us that you will press for insurers not to escape their responsibilities by referring to a clause excluding natural disasters?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic572x.u4	Minister, I will not go back to the history of the dramatic events that the independents and traders have been going through in recent months. I come from the same region as Mrs. Song and Mrs. Jadin. Of course, I have also been concerned about recent floods. During the covid crisis, the RMG had drawn up a precise monitoring of the economic consequences of the crisis. What about the floods? Is there a cadastre for the self-employed and SMEs that have been affected? What is the estimated amount of damage? Are we aware of the number of self-employed and SMEs still at a standstill? How many of them are at risk of not being able to recover and thus to cease their activity? Finally, what measures and assistance are being deployed or envisaged by the federal government to support them?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic572x.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have of course learned of the terrible and difficult difficulties encountered by the citizens in general and the independents in particular in the Horeca, the businesses and businesses which have been greatly affected by the floods in the Liège region but also in the other provinces of our country. In fact, I have been in direct contact with several affected independents over the last few weeks, and in several ways, as I will explain earlier, we have been able to try to find solutions to their problems. However, with regard to the specific question of experts and insurance, I would ask you to ask Minister Dermagne your questions because he is in charge of these powers. I invite you to contact him to find out what he has taken as a measure regarding this real finding that you are making and the unavailability of experts to estimate and advance in compensation. At the risk of disappointing you, the same applies to the Sabam. It is also a skill of my colleague Dermagne. So I have no room for manoeuvre on the Sabam, even if I share your analysis. It is indeed particularly awkward to have sent these calls to pay, as the sectors are emerging from a terrible crisis at present. And for the flooded areas, it's a double penalty, since there was the covid and then the floods. I therefore find that you are right and that it is particularly awkward for the Sabam to do so. On the other hand, to answer questions about what I was able to do within the scope of my skills, I wanted to provide you with the following. First of all, I supported traders and self-employed people affected by the floods through the immediate granting of bridge rights and payment facilities. At the level of bridge law, affected self-employed workers who do not already benefit from the double bridge right of crisis or the bridge right for declining turnover due to the covid have been able to use the bridge right "forced interruption" (natural disaster). We were therefore very flexible because we were able to use the covid texts immediately for the benefit of the flooded victims. I agree that this is not fully legally compliant, but we wanted to act quickly. The government has therefore decided to use the covid tool to help the self-employed affected by the floods. The amount of the benefit is proportional to the duration of the interruption in a period of seven consecutive days. This is the third pillar of classical bridge law. As of 1 July 2021, this amount amounts, for a first period of seven days, to 329 euros when you have no child or dependant and 411 euros when you have a dependant. It can reach, per month, between 1 317 and 1 646 euros gross. Since September, these amounts have been slightly increased. In addition, we have also taken decisions to allow payment facilities. They are granted to self-employed workers who experience difficulties as a result of these floods. Each self-employed person, regardless of his or her category of contributions (principal or supplementary), who is experiencing difficulties as a result of flooding, may apply in writing to his or her insurance fund for a one-year deferral of the payment of social contributions for the third quarter of 2021, without taking into account any increases and without effect on benefits. In addition, he may also benefit from a social contribution exemption for the third quarter of 2021. A simplified application procedure has been put in place by the social insurance funds to facilitate their access. Self-employed persons may also request a reduction in their provisional social contributions. Another measure that we were able to implement quickly is administrative and psychological support through partnership with the ASBL A pass in the impasse. We were able to guide and use covid budgets to get his psychologists to help the self-employed. We found that they were able to help others who were not independent. This ASBL has been very active in recent weeks and is still in place to assist victims in their administrative processes and to provide psychological support. As you will have noticed, this double sentence was a fatal blow to a series of independents. Together with Mr Vandenbroucke, it was therefore important for us to be able to direct part of this ASBL's forces towards the victims of the floods. Finally, with regard to the cadastre that has been mentioned, we do not have it at the federal level. As the economic compensation for floods is a regional competence, it would be logical for this cadastre to be carried out by the Regions. As part of the agriculture component, I wrote to my colleagues Tellier and Borsus of the Walloon Region in order to be able to dispose of this cadastre. Here too, the same question arises and it is therefore the regional entities and the Walloon Region in particular that must be addressed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic572x.u6	Minister, thank you for your answer. At the same time as I asked you my questions, I did so with respect to Minister Dermagne. The message that needed to be heard is that our independent minister is aware of the problems encountered in these very complicated situations and that solutions must be found. The difficulty encountered, in particular, by the Walloon Region when it had to negotiate with the insurance representatives was mentioned. These included amounts for private dwellings that could at some point be capped. We now know that the Regions will replace them. In addition, the practical complications that I have just mentioned will have to be taken into account. I will question Minister Dermagne, but I assume that within the government these issues are discussed while being aware of the causes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic572x.u7	Minister, thank you for this information. I have already questioned Mr. Dermagne on the same subject. I look forward to his answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic572x.u8	Minister, thank you. As you suggest, I will address my questions to Minister Dermagne.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic572x.u9	Minister, thank you for that clarification. As you may know, the Vesdre basin has had a number of difficulties in overcoming the phenomenon of deindustrialisation. While a number of large companies are still operating there, most of them with now damaged facilities, this number is limited. It is therefore largely this fabric of self-employed and SMEs that will enable the Region to avoid large-scale decommissioning. We must also pay attention to their problems. I know you will be, and I will be, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic572x.u10	Mr President, Minister, with a ruined harvest, flooded land, covered with mud and stones, displaced livestock, and the weather of July have not spared our farmers, especially in Wallonia. The latter have already experienced many complications during the year due to frost and late snow. Many crops, such as beets, cereals, potatoes and strawberries, are likely to be the major victims of these recent floods. An impact on sales prices is not to be excluded, especially on processed products that we particularly love in Belgium (I am talking about chips and fries). Minister, what support has the federal government put in place to support our affected farmers? What effects did this ultimately have on the harvest and export of local products? What can you tell me about the introduction of climate insurance for farmers?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic572x.u11	Mr President, Mr Minister, since my colleague has already made an assessment of the situation, I shall confine myself to my various questions. Have you been questioned by the sector concerned? Has there already been any consultation with the sector? Are federal aid envisaged to support farmers affected by the floods? Do you have an overall picture of the damage caused by floods? Finally, as you probably know, the Flemish Region recognises an opening to five insurance organisations in order to protect our farmers from climate change and weather consequences. I would have liked to know your views on the matter and any proposals to that effect? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic572x.u12	Mr President, Minister, as you know, the floods have had a catastrophic impact on farms. I agree with Mrs. Song and Mrs. Jadin's questions. In addition, do you have an assessment of the impact of floods on farms? How many farmers have been affected? What is the estimated amount of damage? What federal measures are also being implemented or envisaged to assist farmers affected by the floods? For the affected parcels there are also questions about potential contamination of land and crops. Are there any accompanying measures for operators in this context?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic572x.u13	Ladies and gentlemen, the floods of 14 and 15 July have indeed caused enormous damage in our country. More than two months after the events, Belgium is still under the shock of people who have died and disappeared. Unfortunately, the damage to private property and public infrastructure will remain in our memory for a long time. The agricultural sector has not been spared. Many fields and meadows along the river's edge have been flooded, animals have been taken away by flooding or have been unable to remain in their meadows or stables. Following the withdrawal of the water, farmers had to deal with the management of the tons of waste and stones abandoned by the water, and to analyse and manage the potential pollution generated in their crop plots and in surface waters. As early as 15 July, as the floods were under way, I responded to a request from the Walloon Federation of Agriculture (FWA) and asked the Federal Agency for Food Chain Security (AFSCA) to allow holders of cattle and sheep whose herds were in emergency situations – a series of cattle had to be evacuated – to house their cattle with another farmer. It was not possible from an administrative point of view, but we broke this administrative barrier the same day and without losing health status. We have kept herds separate from neighbouring farmers or friends who have agreed to welcome the animals. This was done without loss for either the claimant or the host. Since several herds are still involved, I have just extended this derogation until 31 October. Secondly, my speech also dealt with the easing of the conditions for granting bridge rights. I have just addressed it in the previous question. In addition, after an urgent meeting with Agrofront and AFSCA, I also asked that the latter be able to accompany all farmers who wished to carry out a risk analysis of their land and products as part of their self-control. It should be noted that, in some cases, questions were – and still are – about the potential for land pollution. We have therefore put in place this procedure to ensure the quality of food of animal and plant origin produced from the flooded plots. The AFSCA is committed to responding to all requests from the affected operators and carries out the necessary analyses in this context. The AFSCA website also provides more details on the contaminants that need to be taken into account. Indeed, there may be, potentially, a lot of contaminants. A good collaboration has been established with Agrofront and, mainly, the Walloon Federation of Agriculture to be able to inform all farmers who had concerns about their self-control. In order to relieve the operators concerned, the Agency has undertaken to ensure that non-essential checks (inspection, analysis, classical audit) are not carried out by operators for six months. These farms were flooded and damaged. They are granted periods of calm for six months. This will allow them to devote themselves to the urgent tasks related to the rehabilitation of their facilities in order to resume their activities, but above all to devote themselves to their loved ones and to their housing in certain cases. Then I intervened, in collaboration with the agricultural associations (the Agrofront, the Walloon Region and the Governor of Liège) in order to find a solution for the evacuation of thousands of tons of stones and rubble abandoned by the flooded waters on the plots bordering the river. You should know that in good agreement with the Governor and the Region, between 15 and 20 farmers have been identified whose grasslands have turned into pebbles dunes. You have to see this, it's pretty impressive! The evacuation of these stones requires colossal budgets. In this respect, a partnership has been established with the governor of the province of Liège. The evacuation of these stones is under way. But given the scale, it will still take a while. This is an answer that I know has been given to some 20 farmers, but perhaps the figures will evolve in the future for the evacuation of these rubbles. With regard to direct financial aid and the introduction of climate insurance, I would like to point out that, following the sixth reform of the State, the powers relating to the management of agricultural disasters have been regionalised since 1 January 2015. I invite you to study this issue at the regional level, as it is no longer under federal jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic572x.u14	Minister, thank you for all these details and for all the assistance that has been put in place in a strategic and coordinated manner in collaboration with the provinces. This is obviously a very good thing and it is necessary. Indeed, when one really realizes the magnitude of the damage, it goes without saying that all the possibilities that allow a situation to be restored to a little normal are obviously welcome. For climate insurance, you're absolutely right. It's a mistake on my part. I will pass it on to my colleagues in the Walloon Parliament. In time for me!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic572x.u15	Minister, thank you for your responsiveness. As you said, some measures were put in place on 15 July, and I thank you for that. I also thank you for the various elements of the answer that show your attention to the issue and your awareness of all the difficulties that farmers are experiencing today as a result of these tragic events. I would also like to ask you about the market gardeners who are also in the agricultural sector but who, by their structuring, are sometimes forgotten in some measures put in place, simply because they are usually smaller than certain agricultural structures, which inevitably leads to harmful consequences because they pass through the meshes of the net and do not, most of the time, benefit from certain aids put in place. As you know, the borough of Verviers and the province of Liège are particularly attentive to their food belts and so we have many small marketers in our territory who have also been affected by these floods. I wouldn't want to leave some of them on the side of the road. I would therefore like to draw your attention to these small structures within our large agricultural network in Walloon.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic572x.u16	Minister, thank you for your answers and actions during this crisis. The Walloon Region has already decided on a number of measures to help farmers in the wake of this disaster, including an intervention to the tune of 70% of the damage estimated with a ceiling of EUR 300 000. To its degree of competence, it is essential that the federal government have the same ambition. While damage to agricultural buildings is obvious, the impact on arable land or pasture is sometimes more difficult to see in any case for the layman's eye. As a result, there is a real risk that this sector will be forgotten from the post-crisis period. We must ensure that this is not the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic572x.u17	Mr Vicar, I am aware of the variety of regional situations as to the consequences of the health crisis and the current situation of recovery or non-resumption of activities. The hospitality sector horeca Brussels is still penalized by the international situation and the slowdown in business travel as well as tourism. Like all other independents and entrepreneurs, hotel sector actors have been able to rely on various support measures both at federal level and at the level of the federated entities, depending on the distribution of their respective competences. This is still the case under certain conditions. At the federal level, these are either direct financial aid, in the form of subsidies, tax relief or tax exemptions, or indirect financial aid, such as deferrals of payments, temporary unemployment, etc. As far as my ministerial powers are concerned, I have decided to extend until 31 December this year all the payment facility measures for self-employed workers, i.e. the deferral of payment of social contributions, without taking into account increases and without effect on benefits; a simplified application procedure for exemption from social contributions. However, self-employed workers who experience difficulties as a result of coronavirus can also apply for a reduction in their provisional social contributions for the year 2021, calculated on the basis of the incomes of the last three years. Moreover, self-employed persons who do not pay their temporary social contributions of 2021 before 31 December of this year will not have to pay an increase for this late payment. This also applies to the late payment of regularization contributions, which were to be paid in the course of 2021. In addition, hotel operators are still entitled to a crisis bridge in the event of a loss of turnover of at least 40% until 30 September. The government is currently discussing the extension of certain support measures beyond September 30th. There are still self-employed workers and entrepreneurs who are suffering the full consequences of the crisis, despite the recovery. I think, Mr Vicar, that it is for this type of sector that it is important to extend the measures, certainly bridge law and temporary unemployment. Thus, in Brussels, tourism does not resume as quickly as in other regions. In my region, in the Ardennes, tourism has resumed quite quickly, but in Brussels, this is not the case. There are still niches, such as the transport sector, or sectors which are still badly impacted and which, for me, should still be able to benefit, at least until the end of the year, from complementary support measures. I therefore call for an extension of the bridge law and temporary unemployment until 30 September this year. In this regard, I do not despair of reaching an agreement quickly. Finally, various measures have also been taken by the Regions to support the hotel sector. In the case of the Brussels-Capital Region, for example, there is a residence tax exemption of EUR 4 per night per room and a support premium for the hotel and accommodation sector, which can amount to up to EUR 62,500 per establishment unit.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic572x.u18	Minister, thank you for your answer. There are eight days left to extend these measures, which is why I asked this question. This allows me to tell you that I am in favour of extension. If I have mentioned Brussels, the situation does not concern it specifically; it is the business of international visits that is concerned. I myself organized clinical meetings in Zaventem. They are hundreds of people who come from dozens of different countries. It is a whole sector that suffers enormously from covid measures at the moment. I am pleased to hear that you are in favour of extending these measures until 31 December. Indeed, one cannot hold the hands of the business to cross the river and then let them go in the middle of the ford when they do not yet have foot. It would be a shame to have invested all this money so that, in the end, they would drown anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic572x.u19	Under your policy paper, when will the Belgian part of the Global Enterpreneurship Monitor (GEM) be revived? We would have liked to know what initiatives you have taken in this regard during the last year of your policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic572x.u20	I think the GEM is a very interesting project and my ambition is to get Belgium to participate in this project again. The GEM is an international academic initiative that aims to measure the evolution of the entrepreneurial spirit in the participating countries. A report shall be made on the basis of a set of indicators. It provides a perspective on the attitudes of the workforce to entrepreneurship and provides an outline of the entrepreneurial activity in the initial stages of the creation of a business. The statistics used are from a telephone survey, decreased by 2,000 respondents. The survey is complemented by qualitative interviews with national experts in charge of assessing the level of performance of the main determinants likely to affect the country's business activity. The methodology is similar for all participating countries, which allows for country-by-country benchmarking. The publication of the GEM report for Belgium has been interrupted since 2015, following the withdrawal of the previous lender, namely the Flemish government. Since then, the data on Belgium published on the website of the GEM have no longer been updated. This contrasts with many other countries, particularly European ones. So there is a real distortion of international comparisons, with Belgian data reflecting a fixed situation from the past, while data from other states are evolving. The added value of this study for a good understanding of the spirit of enterprise cannot be denied. That is why my administration has had multiple contacts with academic actors and other general managements within the FPS Economy to see if they can restart the project for the years 2022, 2023, 2024 and 2025. There is no doubt that both the academic world and the business community have a real interest in the project, as well as several general managements of the FPS Economy. I contacted my colleague Pierre-Yves Dermagne directly to make him aware of the relevance of this project. The General Executive Board of SMEs, my administration within the FPS Economy, does not itself have a sufficient budget to finance an initiative such as the GEM. Since this research is also important for the General Directorate of Statistics and the General Directorate of Economic Analyses and International Economy of the FPS Economy, a joint effort must be made. At this stage, the slope of co-financing with the Länder was not examined as it was considered too complex with regard to the necessary budget. In the context of the next budgetary conclave, I will discuss this dossier in order to ensure that Belgium will participate in the GEM again.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic572x.u21	Thank you for your answers. It is, of course, a pity that Belgium is left behind in this survey and we no longer have a good comparison. I hear you say that it is about a telephone survey of 2 000 people with a qualitative interpretation of it, so that must be relatively affordable. It would therefore be interesting to know in concrete terms what budget we need for this. In this way, we may find a solution sooner than when we first investigate who wants to pay it while no one knows what budget it is about. So it might be interesting to know the budget, then there will be more enthusiasm to grab it and we can be included in the comparison again and have accurate figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic572x.u22	What initiatives did you take within your powers to reduce the administrative burden on SMEs? How far is administrative simplification going for, for example, the start-up of a company? Was the digital road also being walked, as Mr Van Quickenborne pointed out? When will the electronic yard map arrive? What initiatives did you take together with your colleague responsible for Administrative Simplification? I made some inquiries about the UBO register in a written question. I already got an answer to that. The UBO register can be consulted by all banks and that is free of charge. Each bank is now constantly asking for all information from a company. This is actually an administrative burden for businesses, which is unnecessary. Can anyone who needs and may have access to the UBO register not be obliged to consult this? Then that is an efficient tool that is being used. In many individual companies within a group or cluster of companies, the same people are 100% shareholder. Yet every company has to fill in everything again and again. That's a lot of red tape. An SME does not have the staff to follow up on such things and do so properly. It is often a knack for SMEs. Large companies are even complaining about it, so the small ones will certainly do so. There's a login for one purpose, another login for another purpose. Can RSZ, My Minfin, the Flemish government and so on be more uniformly accessible, making digitalization more enjoyable? Finally, digitisation must function. For example, tax-on-web is often not accessible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic572x.u23	The government is currently preparing a re-start and transition plan that plans the elaboration of a federal action plan for administrative simplification. It is therefore difficult at this stage to clarify this. The aim of this plan, in addition to all initiatives that have already been or will be launched in each policy area, is to create a horizontal scope. It will include the main priorities of administrative simplification. In parallel, during the last Steering Committee, the Administrative Simplification Service invited the Federation to report their concerns on this matter. I will therefore continue to be attentive to take into account the concerns of SMEs in this area. As regards the questions about the creation of a company, the file on the electronic yard map and the harmonisation of the methodologies for access to the various applications, I would refer you to my colleague Mathieu Michel, Secretary of State for Digitisation, with responsibility for Administrative Simplification, Privacy and Control of the Buildings, who is attached to the Prime Minister. For items 1 and 2 on the UBO register, I invite you to put your question to my colleague Vincent Van Peteghem, Minister for Finance, responsible for coordinating the fight against fraud.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic572x.u24	Thank you, Minister, for your reply, although it is vague, so I cannot get right to it. I'd rather get more concrete answers. The plan is very vague for me and with everything you say about initiatives and the horizontal effect, I am not very good at working on it, which I do regret. With regard to the digital documents, I also ask Secretary of State Michel, but I do think it is important that this is included in the SME sphere, because often digitisation is carried out at a high level, but it is important that the input of SMEs is taken into account. On the UBO register, I have just quoted the answer of Minister Van Peteghem in my question. I asked if the banks should pay for the consultation. The answer was clear to me: no, the register is accessible. This brings me to administrative simplification with the question of whether banks can be obliged to do so. Perhaps you could consult with Minister Van Peteghem, the Cabinets could sit together. The UBO register is here, so the digitization has been carried out. Banks may consult the register. Most of all, I wanted to simplify the workings of entrepreneurs. That's why I asked that question. I'll follow this up with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic572x.u25	Mr President, what progress has been made with the evaluation of the code of conduct governing the relationship between breweries and drinks shops and the catering industry? Have there been any calls? When did you get that place? Did all the partners come to the table? When will we see the next steps? Can you give us a preliminary status?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic572x.u26	Mrs Verhelst, together with the Minister for Economic Affairs, we have taken the initiative to evaluate the code of conduct for relations between brewers, drink dealers and the catering industry. This Code of Conduct dates from the end of 2015 and Article 6 provides that its application is to be reviewed every three years by the signatory parties, in consultation with the relevant ministers. The current cases and the government crisis that preceded the formation of the current government have made an evaluation difficult. Then there was the COOVID-19 crisis. The catering industry and the suppliers of the sector were affected by significant restrictive measures which led to severe tensions in the sector. The FPS Economy coordinated this evaluation. This implies that all the views of the signatories of the Code on the provisions and their implementation are collected. The Chairman of the Conciliation Committee, who is competent to assist in resolving disputes relating to the application of the Code, shall also be involved in the evaluation. The High Council for Self-employed and SMEs (HRZKMO) was also consulted and issued a preliminary opinion on 20 July. That advice is public and can be found on the HRZKMO website. It states that the sectors concerned reserve the right to express additional views later because the opinion was drawn up in a short time. Its content contributes to the ongoing evaluation. Furthermore, the advice of each signatory is sought from both the Federation of Belgian Brouwers and the Federation of Belgian Drink Traders and from the three Catering Federations of the country. I expect the evaluation report from the FPS Economy by the end of September. In the meantime, we have brought together the signatories of the Code of Conduct on the basis of the only common conclusion of HRZKMO in its opinion of 20 July on the request for a speedy resumption of negotiations on an addendum to the Code of Conduct for the full and definitive exemption from a minimum purchase obligation, at least for the entire duration of the COOVID-19 crisis. The first working meeting took place on 14 September and all participants were instructed to make concrete proposals on an addendum to the next meeting, scheduled for October. All stakeholders participate in the ongoing evaluation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic572x.u27	Thank you, Minister, for the very comprehensive answer. Over the past period, the work has been somewhat complicated, reinforced by other priorities. I am pleased that all stakeholders are involved in the search for a solution and that there is an advice from HRZKMO and the FPS Economy on the table. I'm sure I'll take note of it. I will follow up the dossier and perhaps ask a follow-up question on the state of play at the end of October.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic572x.u28	Mrs Verhelst, in general, my administration, the General Directorate for SMEs of the FPS Economy, organises targeted information campaigns for any new measure taken at federal level or to draw attention to the important developments for the SMEs of the country. I am thinking of the campaign to make known the so-called b2b law, the 'Time for Digital' campaign and the ongoing campaign on the demystification of artificial intelligence for SMEs. By the end of the year, the Cyberscan will be posted online on the website of the FPS Economy. This instrument will allow SMEs to measure the degree of cybersecurity of their business. I am also thinking of an annual communication campaign in 2022-2025 to make SMEs and self-employed people aware of the risks related to cyber security and the measures to be taken to increase their cyber resistance by focusing on the projects available to SMEs and the self-employed. I will launch communication campaigns in the framework of the project 'Belgium Builds Back Circular' of the relay plan in collaboration with the respective administrations of Ministers Dermagne and Khattabi. They will cover awareness raising and information for SMEs on the circular economy. Under the Single Digital Gateway, several projects are in progress: firstly, the digital creation of legal entities, which no longer requires the physical presence of persons, secondly, the creation of a catalogue of products, authorisations and authorisations necessary for the creation and management of a company with information on those authorisations and authorisations, a link to online applications, an overview of the costs and contact details of the competent authority, and thirdly, the digitisation of the applications themselves, which will have to be completed by the end of 2023. These actions are carried out in cooperation with the Administrative Simplification Service (DAV). Finally, the measures concerning the zero contribution and the Belgian Intellectual Property Service fall within the competence of Minister Dermagne.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic572x.u29	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive reply, which I will read carefully.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic572x.u30	Minister, what initiatives have you taken over the past year to strengthen the crafts and the short chain in the digital age? How does the fight against counterfeiting fit in? What measures have you taken in this respect? What are your plans for next year?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic572x.u31	Mrs Verhelst, as Minister for Self-employed and SMEs, I took the initiative to revise the law of 19 March 2014 on the legal definition of craftsman. The aim of the Act is to give official recognition and labelling to professionals who practise their profession in a craft way. A craftsman is active in the production, transformation, repair, restoration of objects, the provision of services whose activities essentially relate to manual aspects, to an authentic character, and who develop a certain knowledge focused on quality, tradition, creation or innovation. There are 1,546 artisans active in Belgium, 46.7% in the Flemish Region, 6% in the Brussels-Capital Region and 47.3% in the Walloon Region. The recognition confirms the authentic nature of the activity, the manual aspect of the company's work and the craft know-how. Thanks to the affiliate of the logo confirming the legal recognition and their registration in the register of craftsmen, the approved companies can count on greater visibility from the public. Moreover, that little bit more for the image of their brand can also give a boost to their activities. However, we can do better, not only to increase visibility, but also to convince more craftsmen to recognise their activities and thus attract more customers. I would like to modernise the procedure in this area by simplifying the procedures for applying for recognition and taking the necessary initiatives to ensure that the Commission is more present on the ground for Craftsmen. The catering professions are also included in the operation. I will certainly take into account the opinion of the High Council for Self-employed and SMEs of 14 September on the draft law that my administration has prepared. I am sensitive to the questions of the sector, which believes that, in order to make the label truly attractive, artisans should have concrete advantages, for example of a fiscal nature. Finally, before this project is carried out, the Crafts Day will take place on 21 November, at which the Belgians will be able to meet the recognized craftsmen of the country in an open-door atmosphere. In 2022, authorised craftsmen will be geolocalised through an application developed by the FPS Economy. Furthermore, under my powers as Minister of Agriculture, I also pay particular attention to small producers who sell their products in the short supply chain. I carefully follow the information and guidance indications that are realized by the communication department of the BFSA. They should support farm producers, and also the small businesses and self-employed who work in the food sector. As far as your second question is concerned, it is true that the SMEs who hold or own patents are the victims of counterfeiting, piracy and even unfair competition from foreign competitors who offer e-commerce products to Belgian consumers, who counterfeit Belgian products. I recently asked the Economic Inspectorate to provide me with a report on its strategy for monitoring non-Belgian websites focusing their activities on the Belgian market. I should be receiving the requested report shortly. It is also important that companies themselves pay sufficient attention to respect for their intellectual property rights. The acquisition and possession of these rights constitute important assets in the assets of an undertaking. Without these adequate efforts to ensure that these rights are respected by third parties and a continuous monitoring of their unauthorised use, these rights run the risk of losing their value and effectiveness. The legislator has created a set of remedies that intellectual property rights holders can use to combat the violation of their rights. I will present my SME policy for the coming year in the framework of my general policy statement 2022 which will take place in this committee in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic572x.u32	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your answers. It is effectively important to find the way to recognition as a craftsman. It is right that those involved should also ensure that they protect their products, thereby reducing the risk of counterfeiting and preserving the value of crafts. I would like to follow the dossier further with you, as there will be reports by the end of September 2021. If it is possible, I would also like the comprehensive answer from you to be able to follow the case together.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic572x.u33	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we all know that the pig sector is having a very difficult time. There are several reasons for this. The corona crisis also struck in that sector, but of course the sector was even more confronted with African swine fever, which struck hard. There's a cry for help. The Flemish Producer Organisation Varkenhouders calculated that there are serious problems in the sector. Since August 2018, the sector has suffered a loss of as much as 343.3 million euros. This amounts to more than EUR 206 000 per company, which is really dramatic. Recently several individual stories have also appeared from pig farmers who are particularly difficult to survive. Hence a number of questions, Minister, to see if additional support could be provided for the pig sector. The first bottleneck they mention is the lack of transparency about margins and prices. I would have liked to know whether you are prepared to take an initiative to consult with your regional colleagues, including Minister Crevits, to see what can be done about it. Secondly, the sector has now been recognised as a sector in crisis, but this recognition expires at the end of September. Is there any possibility or willingness to consider an extension of that recognition? Is it in the pipeline that this sector can still be recognised as a sector in crisis? Soon, in November, the sanitary fees and the BFSA fees will also be sent again. Is there any way to postpone it or not to send it so they don't have to be paid? That could also be a possible support measure. Finally, I would have liked to know how many countries still maintain their policies today in order not to allow imports of Belgian pork? Can you explain that? What actions are you taking to further stimulate the export of our Belgian pork?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic572x.u34	I would like to join the theme, as it is an effective problem that should not be underestimated. In February 2021, you recognised the sector as a sector in crisis. That recognition ends at the end of this month. We know that African swine fever has led to many markets being closed, that half of them have not yet been reopened, that prices are moving a lot in a dislocated European market and that the Chinese export market remains closed. In addition, there is an oversupply, because swine fever was also found in Germany and Spain. My questions are therefore the following. What is the status of the reopening of the Chinese market for meat, given the role played by the Belgian Embassy in these negotiations? What efforts have been made and what results have been achieved? What has caused the recognition of pig farming as a sector in crisis? Will you consider an extension as a sector in crisis? What efforts have you made to re-launch the chain talks? Was the study of the profit margins of the various sectors in the agri-food chain launched and finalised? Or what's the status?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic572x.u35	Mr President, Mrs Dierick, Mrs Verhelst, in order to respond to the lack of transparency on margins and prices, I will take the initiative to ask the Price Observatory of the FPS Economy, under the responsibility of Mr Dermagne, to carry out an update of the analysis of prices and margins in the pig sector. After all, the latest analysis we have is already from 2016. I would also like to mention the application of the European directive on price transparency in the agri-food industry and its implementing decisions. The aim of this recent legislation is to increase the transparency of pricing in the agri-food sector throughout the whole chain, including the pigmeat sector. In addition, the chain consultation, which will be restarted in the short term, should be an instrument enabling fair relationships between suppliers and buyers. Given the difficult situation in which the pig sector remains, the sector will also be recognised as a sector in crisis for the last quarter of 2021 and for the first quarter of 2022. In this way operators can be exempted from paying contributions to the social status of self-employed persons. I understand that the pig sector is currently going through difficult times because of, among other things, the aftermath of corona, the still existing export difficulties caused by African swine fever and the high energy and feed prices. I am therefore working on solutions that should give some breathing space. In addition to the extension of the measures as a sector in crisis, there is a demand for a partial exemption from the contributions to the sanitary fund. For this purpose, I have requested additional information from the relevant administration, the Public Health Office, about the current situation of the funds, so that I have sufficient knowledge to make the right decision. An exemption from the BFSA tax was not requested. This exemption is more difficult, since the levy of the BFSA is partly intended to finance the control programme, and the controls remain of course essential, including in the pig sector. At present 12 countries still apply a full ban or partial restrictions on imports of Belgian pigmeat due to AVP. These countries are Taiwan, China, Belarus, Australia, India, Colombia, Barbados, Vietnam, Dominican Republic, Sri Lanka, Seychelles and Peru. For Vietnam and India, the BFSA could reach zoning. In the case of zoning, exports from the infected area or province are no longer possible, but exports from the rest of the Belgian territory may be resumed to the third country in question. Over the past three years, the BFSA has taken numerous initiatives together with the sector federation to support the export of Belgian pork and derived products to other countries by reopening or preventing them from being closed down. These initiatives include a transparent and rapid communication to the authorities of third countries on the evolution of the situation and the measures taken, participation in international seminars on African swine fever and the organisation of various meetings with the authorities of third countries. In concrete terms, several visits to China, including five in 2019, have already been organised before the opening of the Chinese market and are also included in the priority list of the BFSA attaché in China. Due to the sanitary restrictions in China, official meetings with the Chinese government were not possible. In the meantime, however, a number of technical dossiers were continued together with the European Commission and representatives of other Member States. In the meantime, our attaché has also been able to meet a representative of the Chinese government, which will facilitate smooth cooperation in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic572x.u36	Minister, I am pleased with your answer. It is a good initiative to have the Price Observatory make a new analysis, as the last analysis dates back to 2016. That's definitely interesting. I hope that we will be able to discuss this analysis in committee in order to see where we can take action. It is also good news that recognition as a sector in crisis is being extended and I hope that it will be communicated to the companies concerned as soon as possible. The exemption on social status contributions is also good, but I hope that it will be examined whether contributions to the BFSA can also be suspended or postponed. I understand, of course, that you should consult with the BFSA. I know that you are making a lot of efforts to promote exports again. This is extremely important for the pig sector and I hope that we can continue to count on your support for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic572x.u37	Minister, it is good that an extension has now been decided, since it is a serious crisis, but it is important that we work on a long-term solution as soon as possible. The key, I think, is the export. We must examine this carefully and lobby for it. The price comparison dates from 2016 and is therefore already five years old. A new analysis helps structurally rather than an extension of recognition. This extension helps, but it is better to find structural solutions on the market in the long term.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic572x.u38	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Rohonyi's 55020928C was postponed. Mrs Houtmeyers is not present for Question No 5, by Mrs Houtmeyers, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. 55020930C. We are waiting for a message to postpone her question, to convert it or to declare it invalid if necessary.
