ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic358x.u1	Mr President, since the question was put in French, I will also put it in French. Mr Secretary of State, my question concerns the free monthly visit to the museum. Will you re-establish monthly free of charge in each of the federal cultural institutions? Minister Clarinval said he wanted to launch a working group on the free of charge of museums "in order to object to the reflection on this subject". In view of the dramatic situation in the cultural sector and the loss of purchasing power of the population, do you not consider that we have wasted enough time to "object the reflection on this subject"? Would it not be better to have direct access to museums for all opening days?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic358x.u2	Mr Secretary of State, we have already had a first exchange on this subject at the time of the presentation of your policy note. The free museums on the first Sunday of the month were very successful in the Wallonia-Brussels Federation. For my part, I consider this to be an effective incentive to attend these institutions. This free of charge has been maintained despite the health context – we know that it raises some questions – through strict museum-specific security protocols. Under the previous legislature, Minister Clarinval had proposed the establishment of a working group to assess the desirability of extending this free of charge to federal museums, since it is not widespread. In the context we know, it is essential to stress the importance of access to culture, particularly through museums. In a logic of redeployment – a concept that is dear to you – it is also important to place culture at the heart of our society. Mr Secretary of State, did the working group set up under the previous legislature draw any conclusions from its reflection? Were there any external actors involved in cultural mediation – "Arts and Publics", academic specialists, representatives of users or even other institutions – or social rights defenders, such as the Walloon Network for Combating Poverty? Is this broader reflection possible if it has not already been carried out? According to what timing do you want to work on this file?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic358x.u3	Good morning, everyone! I hope you're all right. This is the first time we have the opportunity to see each other in 2021. We're a little alone in this committee room, since I'm meeting Mrs. Vindevoghel on a one-on-one basis. It's a great way to start the year! I hope to see you all again soon! Mr Parent, indeed, culture has a particular role to play, including in redeployment – if we can call it that – and in the society we are trying to build in the post-covid. I imagine that it will not have escaped your sagacity that several projects in the federal purity of the recovery plan concern the world of culture, with Bozar or with the renovation of certain cultural infrastructures, including the 50th anniversary at the federal level. I think that this is a good signal for the place of scientific policy and for the place of culture, in particular, at the heart of the recovery plan. On the question of freedom, which is the subject of your question, and that of Mrs Vindevoghel, as you know, the Federal Science Policy is in charge of ten institutions, so five which have museum entities open to the public: the Royal Library of Belgium, the Royal Museums of Art and History, the Royal Museums of Fine Arts on the Mont des Arts, the Royal Institute of Natural Sciences in Ixelles and the Royal Museum of Central Africa in Tervuren. The debate on freedom goes back many years. There are regular changes in the pricing policy of the various museums. I did a little analysis. Currently, there are three museums, among the five that fall under the Federal Science Policy, which no longer apply free of charge every first Wednesday of the month. On the other hand, these museums have invested in targeted tariff policies for certain target groups in order to significantly reduce or even achieve free access for certain target groups. The target groups are seniors, groups (including students), families and young people under the age of 18 who benefit from a form of free education. For people in poverty and insecurity, a priority objective of the Science Policy at the federal level is that the price of admission to a museum is never an obstacle to the use of our museums. Work is done on an ongoing basis, with specialized associations, for example, article 27, to ensure that this visit remains affordable. As I was telling you, it is a priority public policy objective to prevent the entry price for our collections and our heritage, which belongs to all Belgians, from being an obstacle according to individual means. Personally, I support this differentiated policy. I find that the goal we are pursuing is to increase accessibility for all audiences. I am sure that Mrs. Vindevoghel and Mr. Parent share it 100%. However, work must be done on the free of charge. Is this the best way to achieve this goal, while knowing that we have constraints on the funding of federal institutions? We also have constraints that are not only financial, but in these times of pandemic, also health. It is essential to avoid a massive influx on free days. In addition, attention must always be paid to the potential impact of this free pricing policy. We all have in mind the famous Matthew effect that has been demonstrated in several studies. They show that if free trade has an impact on the influx, it does not specifically extend the public to other audiences who would not have paid without free trade. We fully share the objective of a public policy, but work needs to be done on the quantification of these off-the-shelf effects, and on the impact of health constraints on this free-of-charge policy. Currently, a working group is being set up. In any case, I have asked the directors of federal museums, in charge with the associations that contacted them, to work on a user's rights charter, which will include rules of transparency regarding tariffs. I have also drawn up a small summary table containing the tariff policies that are currently applicable in the five institutions with museum entities. I will pass it on to the chairman of the committee so that he can give it to you, and you can see all the tariff measures that are applicable today, and analyze them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic358x.u4	Mr Secretary of State, yesterday there was another report in the news about the difficult situation of young people. Many people have it very difficult because of corona: people can hardly go outside and can hardly go anywhere. Museums must be accessible, it would have been good if more people could use the museums during this difficult period. That is why we are asking for access to museums to be made free of charge. We have seen this with SNCB: 80% more people have used the bike on the train because it was free. If we want more people interested in museums, we must ensure that they are also very accessible. I am really in favour of you thinking further about this in the working group, so that museums are not just something for the middle class or people who have it better, but also for people who have it hard. I am certainly thinking of the young people, who are not going through easy times through corona.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic358x.u5	Minister, I am sorry that I am not presential and that I am unable to contribute to the conviviality of the discussions. But Taiwanese historians have decided to stay at home today. On the substance of your answer, I share the elements relating to the importance of social measures and differentiated tariff policy. I am pleased that it is at the heart of your priorities. There is very good news: the announcement of the establishment of a working group to study the user charter. It seems to me that through this working group, the discussion should not end at the end of our discussions, but should be continued through this type of working group. It is understood that all remarks on the limits of free trade are relevant and through it there is the prospect of attracting new audiences like this perhaps in the Wallonia-Brussels Federation. This must be objected to and discussed with external actors in cultural mediation. I mean, through this working group, your willingness to work for user rights and transparency, which I welcome. The reflections will continue through this dynamic in any case. Thank you for your always very precise answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic358x.u6	I complete my answer to Mrs Vindevoghel's question. Today, as we speak, all federal museums are free for young people up to the age of 18. There is, in fact, a group of young people over the age of 18 who are no longer in this age-related condition. For students and social recipients, there is a differentiation. The Royal Library is free for social recipients. Students and social recipients belong to a target group of significant tariff reductions of more than 50%. With a few exceptions, the entrance fee is in the order of 4 euros for students and social beneficiaries. It is therefore less than 50 % of the normal price. There are already focused efforts on certain categories that we have at heart, which are important "victims" of the covid-19 crisis, students over the age of 18 and social recipients.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic358x.u7	Mr Secretary of State, as you know, during the previous parliamentary term, the House adopted a resolution aimed at clarifying and repealing the pension scheme granted to former Belgian employees of the German national socialist regime during the Second World War. In 2017, there were still 2,800 beneficiaries in Belgium of a military pension paid by the German State. In May 2020, ten employees continued to receive a pension from the German state after their engagement in the Wehrmacht, and for one of them in an SS division. It's quite horrific morally. The money is paid as compensation for personal injury incurred for taking up arms for the bloody dictator Hitler. According to the Group Mémoire-Groep Herinnering, the establishment of a scientific commission composed of members presented by Belgian universities and respecting linguistic parity, with which the State Archives and the CegeSoma could cooperate, could carry out this work of census and historical truth in order to translate in concrete terms the demands of the said resolution. There is, to date, no numerical list of all persons convicted of collaboration. Could you then, Mr Secretary of State, tell me whether such an approach is being considered within your department?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic358x.u8	Mr President, thank you for your question on such a serious matter. The context and scandalous events in the Prime Minister's home yesterday remind us that the beast has not died and the importance of the memory work that we must continue to do through generations. It goes without saying that the pension benefits paid by Germany are in contradiction with Belgium's democratic memory work as foreseen in the resolution adopted on 14 May 2019. Like you, I am convinced of the need to implement it. We will therefore ask the authorities of North Rhine-Westphalia, which is apparently the public entity responsible for the cases relating to pensions granted by Germany to citizens of Belgian nationality, for all information in order to clarify the situation regarding the current and past pensions granted by Germany to former Belgian employees of the German socialist national regime during the Second World War. In parallel with this request, we will address, in accordance with the provisions of the above-mentioned resolution, the question of the implementation of an ad hoc committee, in collaboration with the State Archives, which have historical expertise and experience in dealing with such cases. You can therefore be assured that this issue will be considered with the utmost seriousness, as these are issues that are and will remain relevant for a long time to come.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic358x.u9	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your very clear and unambiguous answer. You will therefore contact North Rhine-Westphalia and set up, in collaboration with your department, this scientific commission, with the assistance of the General Archives of the Kingdom. As a reminder, there are also German researchers who are ready to work in this direction. You are one of the few members of the government who want to mobilize on this issue. I would therefore like to commend you and Minister Van Quickenborne, whom I have asked about the communication to Germany of the list of former Belgian collaborators who betrayed their country and humanity as a whole, from the moment they committed war crimes or belonged to the SS squadron. You recalled the abhorrent attack on the Prime Minister's home. Last week, we celebrated International Holocaust Day. It is a work of memory and reconciliation. To do this, it takes science, expertise, good will and having in mind that the past nourishes the present and builds the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic358x.u10	Secretary of State, between 14,000 and 20,000 Métis children are said to have been born under the Belgian colonial regime in Congo and in Ruanda-Urundi. They were almost systematically taken away from their parents and entrusted to Belgian religious in orphanages and residential schools. On April 4, 2019, in plenary session, the Prime Minister presented Belgium's official apology to the Métis from colonization and their families for "the injustices and suffering they have suffered". This was in response to one of the recommendations of the resolution, among others, by my predecessor Stéphane Crusnière and adopted by the House in March 2018. Recently, I asked the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Justice about the requests contained in this document. It appears that some points deserve clarification, especially since the government agreement provides for the implementation of the text. Mr Secretary of State, what about the measures taken to secure the funding promised by the SPF Foreign Affairs for the "historical research" component of the supplementary study of the General Archives of the Kingdom on the problem of Belgian Métis born during colonization? Have any contacts with your colleague Minister for Foreign Affairs been made in this context?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic358x.u11	Gentlemen, thank you for your questions. In a year's time, the General National Archives received about fifty individual applications. Every effort is made to respond as correctly and fully as possible to all applications. A bilingual website about the project resolution-Metiss is recently available online. This will allow even better management of applications, optimise communication on the project and provide an online contact point that centralises all useful information. The address of the website is metis.arch.be. I think you know the website, but I can send the link so that it can be shared with all the committee members. CegeSoma is indeed one of the entities of the State Archives. At this stage, it has not received a specific request to conduct historical research on what is provided for in article 6 of the resolution, in particular on the role of civil or religious authorities. To date, no applications have been submitted to the State Archives, specifically the CegeSoma. With regard to the final part of MP Malik Ben Achour's question, the objective in relation to the House's resolution is still, in a second phase, to conduct historical research on the segregation practices that have been carried out with regard to colonial Métis, with the most comprehensive and inclusive approach possible. The idea is to dedicate a team of technicians and scientists so that they can work intensively. We are looking, in collaboration with the Prime Minister's Chancellery and the offices of the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Development Cooperation, for the means necessary to fund this scientific research work, which we believe should be one of the priorities of this government. When we have been able to make progress in this budget research work which, like any budget work, takes a little time, I will certainly present to you the scientific mechanism that will be put in place to carry out this research.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic358x.u12	Mr Secretary of State, your answer contains a positive announcement and a number of positive elements. I have a heartfelt interest in you, but also in a number of colleagues on the follow-up and implementation of that resolution, which was adopted in plenary on 29 March 2018. We still have a lot of work ahead of us on the problem of metises. That is something I will take up as chairman of the special committee on Congo and the colonial past. It is one of our tasks to find out what work still needs to be done there, but I thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic358x.u13	Thank you, Secretary of State, for your answers. After the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Justice, it is the third member of the government who highlights, demonstrates or demonstrates the Government's determination to move quickly forward with the recommendations of the resolution. In itself, it is already something extremely positive. I would like to remind myself, as I had done with your colleagues, of the importance of being able to work in this implementation with the dedicated associations which are very committed to the subject and which must not be neglected in order not to take the risk of doing wrong by wanting to do well. I think these associations are very attentive to the work we are doing at both Parliament and government level. I will not hesitate to send them your answers this morning, for which I thank you again.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic358x.u14	Question No 55013097C by Mrs Sophie Rohonyi is postponed
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic358x.u15	Mr Secretary of State, I would like to make you aware of the particular situation of cultural guides and mediators. They play an essential role in our cities, in our communities, in our museums to ensure our citizens have access to culture. Often, they are a bridge, a link, between museums, majestic collections and sometimes hesitant citizens to grasp works full of history. They help to make museums alive and thus amaze those who go there. I recently had the opportunity to meet an association of guides who work in federal museums. Like the entire cultural sector, some people are in a very difficult situation as a result of health measures, especially since this profession does not enjoy a uniform status for all guides. They operate according to various statutes. Some are employed in museums, but given the financial means, museums have few guides in recent years. Some are self-employed primarily. They could benefit from the bridge right, in any case if they could justify sufficient income in year N-3. It seems that for some guides it was possible. On the other hand, for those who were outside guides, year N-3, 2017, was the year after the attacks in Brussels. There has been a very strong slowdown in this type of activity. Some of them were therefore unable to meet the criteria for bridge law. It is the same for those who are independent on a complementary basis. There is, then, the third category, namely young people, beginners, intermittents – I don't know what to call them – those who are not really independent, who have not really made the step of contributing for a complementary activity, who work without specific status and who often work with Smart contracts. Could they be treated as complementary independents? All this has to be defined. In fact, it is false self-employed people who work for the Pipe, having schedules to respect. Rates are charged by the payer, namely museums. In some cases, they are even asked to provide a medical certificate in case of illness, which shows that there is a link of subordination. For this category of guides, the status has become somewhat "uberized" – if you can say so. In doing so, they did not receive any support. It must also be said that, under the previous legislature, the federal museum sector was defunded. These guides arrive at the end of the chain, there are few financial means for them. Finally, they compensate for a lack of staff. Indeed, it would appear that in some museums there is no longer an educational service and that the work would be carried out by freelancers. This is a more general issue that relates to the debate we have had on your policy note and the needs of the sector. Mr Secretary of State, what is your assessment of the situation of these cultural guides and mediators, particularly in relation to the pandemic? What initiatives could be taken by the government to define a real status for federal guides and mediators and, in any case, to initiate a real dialogue with them in order to provide a specific response to their particular situation? You are not the only one concerned; other ministers are also competent to the extent that there is talk of the self-employed, the right to work, and the federal cultural institutions. Finally, more specifically, in relation to the health crisis, what measures could be envisaged in an emergency to deal with this situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic358x.u16	Mr. Chair, thank you for focusing on this profession and the fundamental role that guides play in the transmission of knowledge and the sharing of our heritage, which is housed in our federal institutions. Today, in federal museums, guides carry out a variety of public activities, including guided tours, workshops, conferences, events for target groups, with children. I think we also need to realize the diversity of the profession. It is no longer only a guide who walks with a group through a museum. Today, they really have a broad role to make the content of museums live to make them accessible via the game, through awareness-raising activities, with children, with seniors. This is an absolutely essential role in the transmission of knowledge. Generally, it is federal scientific institutions that provide guidance, guidance and evaluation. There is no central support mechanism at BELSPO level. Secondly, in relation to the situation of the covid, it is indeed clear that the guides are less solicited, as the attendance is in sharp decline and constrained by the health restrictions. The activities of the guides are directly affected. In some museums there has been a reorientation of the activities of the guides. Some guides are particularly mobilised for the development of digital offer. We know that all our museums are making a leap forward in the digitization of their collections, and the experience they offer. Some guides are therefore mobilized. However, this is not the case for all guides and it is true, as you pointed out, that a variety of very important statutes exist in guides. Some guides are part of the museum's internal staff, others are independent, and others are independent in a complementary way. Some work through a third party, others are on the payroll of an ASBL and made available to museums. Some work through new statutes, such as Smart-related statutes. It is therefore clear that in a situation where the activity is contracted because of the covid, not all guides are affected in the same way. The status of guide effectively leads to certain de facto inequalities between guides. Currently, at the level of science policy, there is a working group dealing with the issue of guides. He will have to make proposals to the government on several issues, in order to move towards greater coherence, particularly in terms of selection. How can this selection be made more uniform and based on objective criteria? It is also working on greater harmonisation within the various departments, and on better job security for those people who play an essential cultural role. But this is of course done by knowing the limits and constraints of the budgetary framework that apply to the departments. It is therefore an important issue which today represents a very great heterogeneity in the statutes. It can be seen that this problem, in the case of a restriction of activity, generates certain de facto inequalities. Consideration is being given to harmonisation, but it will have to take account of both the management requirements and the overall budgetary framework of the Scientific Policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic358x.u17	Mr Secretary of State, thank you. We fully agree on the findings. I am not familiar with this working group, but it is a very good thing. I would obviously like to know more about its composition. As I said earlier, several departments are involved. In addition to your expertise, museums, federal cultural institutions, I imagine there may also be collaboration with Bozar and some guides. But also, in terms of labour law, your colleagues, Mr Dermagne and Mr Clarinval for the self-employed, are also involved in this reflection. I can only invite you to meet representatives of the NSOs who are representative of this target group, which unfortunately escapes all radars. Some of them in any case escape all the aids and possibilities, including in the short term. As you said, the basic issue is the harmonization of the statutes. Thinking of a statute does not in itself have budgetary implications. After that, there is the question of more ad hoc aid because we are in a period of prolonged health measures and the demand is very low. At present, it appears that outdoor guides (city, heritage and other) are only allowed to work in a very small and restrictive manner. As there is little work at the moment, little income comes back. For some, this is a very difficult situation. Therefore, Mr Secretary of State, if you will, I will keep myself informed about this working group. I invite you to meet with representatives and find a lasting solution with them.
