ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic504x.u1	Minister, about a year ago, a resolution was unanimously adopted in the Chamber to revise the date indications on food packaging in the fight against food waste. In that resolution we ask the federal government to take a number of initiatives. What is the state of play in that? For example, what is the roadmap you set out to respond to the call in the resolution, both in terms of priorities and concrete actions and their timing? How will you also make the sustainability data better known to consumers? Are you thinking of an awareness campaign? In the Netherlands, for example, a campaign "hashtag Waste-free pistols" has been launched. Is that something you're thinking about? Another element that is also called for in the resolution is the consultation with all the links in the food industry, ranging from the BFSA to the representative consumer organisations. It has to be ensured that the label "tenable to" would not be proposed less than necessary for the optimum maintenance of quality. Will you consult with the BFSA to make this possible? Will you also make it possible for products whose date has been exceeded, but where there is no need to fear health consequences, to be given away? Unfortunately, these products now often end up in the garbage can. When do you expect there to be a plan against food loss per federal institution? This was also called for in the resolution. Will this happen top-down or from below? How will you generally encourage the donations of unsold food? This issue is also being addressed at European level, by extending the list to products that do not contain an expiry date, such as coffee and rice. Have you taken any initiatives for that? Finally, have you already planned consultation with the Länder, or have you perhaps already done so, to exchange the good practices that exist there against food waste?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic504x.u2	Mr President, Mrs Van Bossuyt, the powers of the BFSA in the fight against food waste are limited. As far as sustainability dates are concerned, this is laid down in European legislation. At European level, it determines the type of products that have a final consumption date and which may have a minimum durability date. There is also a list of products on which no date is required. For all other products it is therefore necessary. All this is not nationalized. The debate on the different dates and the fight against food waste is currently taking place at European level. The BFSA is, of course, actively participating in this. It is the responsibility of the food producer to determine the date on the basis of all the characteristics of the product. The BFSA checks whether the date indicated on the label is the correct type of date and whether the final consumption date has not been exceeded. In addition, it controls the way in which this date is determined in the case of foodstuffs. In addition, the BFSA informs both operators and consumers via different channels. For example, a letter was drawn up, posters were printed, messages were distributed via social media, during meetings and training on the difference between the two different sustainability dates. In addition to the European dimension, of course, there is also the fact that the fight against food loss and waste is primarily a regional issue. Although the theme is not part of the core tasks of the BFSA, it actively contributes to combating food loss and facilitating donations. For example, facilitations have been developed concerning labelling, traceability, freezing, etc. specifically for food banks and charities. Of course, all this happens without compromising the safety of the food chain. The BFSA also participates in the consultation at regional level. In addition, the BFSA cooperates with organisations such as Test Purchase and Too Good To Go around the expiry dates and food waste.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic504x.u3	Minister, your answer only addresses a limited number of the questions I have asked. You say that the powers of the BFSA are limited, I can understand that. However, you also refer to the European level, where there are many discussions. With regard to that list of products on which no date should be set, one of the concrete questions in the resolution adopted unanimously, it is just that you would argue at European level to extend that list, to include additional products, just as several of our neighbouring countries do. You did not answer my question whether you have already done so or not. You say that there are discussions at European level. Is this about that list or is it about the difference between the dates to be used up to and including at least shelf life? That's not clear to me. You also put the ball a bit in the camp of the Regions. There is indeed an element of competence there too. However, the resolution calls for a number of issues which do fall within federal competence, such as the drafting of a plan against food waste in the federal institutions, as already exists in the regional institutions. You have not answered or will. Have you already taken the initiative to set up such a plan in the federal institutions? Will this be top-down, or will you leave it to the institutions themselves, but encourage them to do so? Finally, you did not answer the question of whether there has already been consultation with the Länder on the exchange of good practice against food waste which exists there. I would still like an answer from you to those questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic504x.u4	Debates of the European Parliament 55014061C by Mrs Dierick will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic504x.u5	Mr Minister, bamboo and melamine plastic crockery, such as reusable cups and children's crockery, can no longer be sold. The BFSA will let you know. The bamboo crockery turns out to give off toxins when it comes into contact with heat, which can lead to stomach irritation or stomach ulcers. The potential danger of bamboo fibers has been known for some time now. The BFSA has already recalled bamboo fibre and melamine products in 2018, 2020 and early this year, but the warnings never reached the general public, hence my questions. Have you already taken note of the ban on the sale of tableware made from bamboo fibres and melamine? How do you explain that the danger of these products has been known for some time, but has not previously been clearly communicated to the general public? Will you contact Secretary of State De Bleeker to see how such matters can be prevented in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic504x.u6	Mr President, there were three combined questions from Mrs Gijbels, Van Bossuyt and Creemers. I'll answer all three of them. Mrs Gijbels, Van Bossuyt and Creemers, melamine utensils can be legally placed on the market and is often used. However, there is a problem with the release of formaldehyde and melamine when used at higher temperatures or in contact with acidic foods, such as lemon juice or tomatoes. That is why migration limits have been set at European level for these two substances. For many years this has been included in the BFSA's control programme. Moreover, since they are products mostly imported from China, they are also covered by the European rules on the import of contact materials, thus systematically controlling imports. In addition, the person responsible for the product has a duty to label the products correctly for appropriate and safe use. Due to the addition of bamboo fibres, sometimes in very small quantities, it was unclear whether or not the products were covered by the plastic regulation. This debate was therefore held several times between the Member States, at European level. It was based in particular on an opinion of the German Institute for Risk Assessment published at the end of 2019. This opinion concerned kitchen utensils containing bamboo fibers. Some manufacturers positioned these products in the market as an ecological and fashionable alternative to classic plastic contact materials. That was misleading to the user. Furthermore, because these materials were wrongly profiled as non-plastics, the requirements of the plastic regulation were also not met. Now that there is a consensus among the European Member States that these products are covered by plastic legislation, effective action can be taken. Therefore, the addition of bamboo fibers can no longer be allowed because this additive is not allowed in the plastic regulations. Moreover, migration limits must be respected and consumers must not be misled. The AFSCA, in collaboration with the Standards SPF, has worked for a long time to raise awareness among the sectors concerned. It should not be forgotten that these are foreign products and that there may be a great deal of time between the moment of production and the time when these products are placed in stores. Thanks to the consensus at European level, work can now be harmonised and a Benelux declaration was signed in February, in which reinforced controls were announced in the spring of 2021. Other Member States follow a similar timetable. The European Commission has informed China and European professional federations of the European approach.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic504x.u7	Mrs Creemers will, if necessary, replicate later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic504x.u8	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is striking that there is only now consensus on harmfulness or not. There was a consensus on harmfulness, if I understood correctly, but not on the regulation that specifically covers the product. I am glad that the matter has been resolved. In the meantime, there is a great deal of confusion among consumers. Indeed, some people believe that products containing 100% melamine would also be harmful. If I heard your answer, it would only be between melamine, on the one hand, and bamboo fibers, on the other. Now that the rules on this matter are clear, it is important to inform consumers about which dishes or other products would be harmful or not. After all, there is still a great deal of uncertainty about it. I would therefore recommend that you look at, possibly in cooperation with your colleague in Consumer Protection, Mrs De Bleeker, whether further information can be given to the consumer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic504x.u9	Mr President, Minister, on 28 September 2020, the European Commission authorised the importation of food and food ingredients containing a genetically modified soybean variety developed by Monsanto and the placing on the market of products consisting of or produced from this soybean. The distinctive feature of this genetically modified soybean variety is its ability to withstand certain weeds composed of dicamba, glyphosate or glufosinate-amonium. The cultivation and consumption of such soybeans are in many ways problematic. First, its cultivation, coupled with the use of the herbicides mentioned, could promote weed resistance and ultimately cause greater use of herbicides on crops. Secondly, the import of soybeans, produced in particular in South America, is a major contributor to deforestation in importing countries. Third, there is now evidence of the toxicity of glyphosate, which is found in products intended for the treated diet. In this regard, the scientific opinion of the Higher Health Council (SHC) issued on 3 September 2020 states that "there is sufficient evidence to prohibit glyphosate", "in the interest of public health". Minister, can we have your feedback on the issue? Can the importance of importing this genetically modified soybean into Belgium now be assessed? Can initiatives to limit imports be considered?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic504x.u10	Mr President, Mr Senesael, this variety of soybeans is allowed to be imported into the European Union for food use. The risk assessments of the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) and the Biosafety Council for this type of authorisations do not take into account the risks inherent in the cultivation, as it is carried out outside the European Union. Indeed, the management of possible resistances and the adoption of good farming practices is the responsibility of the producing country. On the issue of deforestation, the federal strategy for sustainable food import chains BeyondFood is under development. Belgium has signed the renewed declaration of ambition of the Amsterdam Declaration. For the details, I refer you to the Minister of the Environment because this matter falls within her jurisdiction. As for glyphosate, I refer you to the publication of my administration on the website phytoweb.be, following the analysis of this opinion of the Higher Council of Health of 3 September 2020. The Plant Protection Products and Fertilizers department has thoroughly examined the CSS report and explained in detail its analysis on the glyphosate page of the above-mentioned website. As part of the European application procedure for the renewal of glyphosate approval, an in-depth scientific evaluation of the studies submitted by the producers as well as those published in the open scientific literature will enable the authorities to lay the foundations for the renewal or non-renewal of glyphosate approval. The importance of importing this genetically modified soybean into Belgium has not been assessed. This is a freedom of choice for operators in the sector concerned, the feed and food sector. I therefore have no official figures in this respect. Initiatives to limit imports are not possible in the context of a European authorisation and in respect of the free movement of goods within the European Union. There is no legal possibility and any obstruction could lead Belgium to a disputed situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic504x.u11	Mr President, I should like to thank the minister for these points of answer. As he points out, I will also look to the Minister of the Environment for her responsibility. For the rest, I will carefully consider the minister's response for a possible return to his services.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic504x.u12	Mr Colebunders cannot be present, so his questions are without object.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic504x.u13	Minister, voluntary initiatives such as Without Hunger to Bed Hasselt helped 57 Hasselt families who ended up in the grey zone. They earned just too much to enjoy OCMW support or did not meet the right criteria. The volunteer organisation tried to help these people out of need with a fresh meal or storage products. A number of volunteers even sacrificed his garage for that or bought a freezer. They did that because the summum of volunteering is just the good feeling that one gets when one does something careless for the community. However, after an anonymous complaint, the BFSA carried out a check with no less than six inspectors at the five volunteers' home. They're, of course, shocked as hell. The BFSA pointed out to them that for all gifts, including those with an expiry date, they had to record on the packaging where this food came from and where it came from. That's a lot of paperwork for five volunteers who, after working hours, want to help people out of need and are too labour intensive for them, so they've stopped collecting food for the time being until they get more clarity. The worst thing is that the ladies are also paying a fine of EUR 150 to 750 because they wanted to do something to combat poverty in society. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. Are you aware of any such cases of voluntary initiatives that were subject to a check by the BFSA? If so, what were the results? All the understanding that food safety is a high priority, but do you not think that punishing such well-meaning initiatives by some ladies with fines of up to EUR 750 is out of proportion? Do you intend at least to act as mediator at the BFSA in such a case and plead for a waiver of the fine for these people?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic504x.u14	Mr President, my answers concern all the questions, including those of Mr Colebunders. Checks on charitable initiatives are carried out by the BFSA either as a result of a complaint or as part of a planned inspection under the established inspection plan for the sector. In the context of the voluntary initiative Without Hunger to Bed Hasselt, a check was carried out on an anonymous complaint about a lack of hygiene. Infringements of food safety rules were identified. The complaint was therefore well founded. The King's Attorney was informed of this. The BFSA has the possibility to close the file on the basis of an administrative friendly settlement proposing an amount. This friendly settlement proposal takes into account all the elements of the dossier, such as the social objective. If it comes to an agreement, the criminal proceedings will lapse. Such initiatives are commendable and respectable. However, it would be unthinkable to accept second-class food safety and therefore a lack of hygiene on the pretext that it is about avoiding food waste and helping the most deprived. Therefore, certain rules must be observed. To support such initiatives, the Support Unit of the BFSA organises training courses to help the associations comply with the rules in force. In addition, there are administrative facilitations for food banks and charitable organisations. For example, a project on the foundations of food safety in donations was launched with the aim of monitoring the difficulties and misunderstandings faced by the actors in the field and providing solutions. The inspection plan shall monitor charitable organisations with an authorisation every four years. In 2019 and 2020, 98 and 124 inspections were carried out at these organisations, of which 35% and 33% respectively were unfavourable. This high percentage clearly shows that some initiatives, although commendable, need to be better in terms of respect for food safety.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic504x.u15	Minister, I understand, of course, that the BFSA must act if there is to be a complaint about poor hygiene. However, this is a charity project. You say that there would be a proposal for an amicable settlement and that we would look at what is fair. I fully understand that, there are rules to be observed, but what will be the friendly settlement? Do people now have to pay a fine that can go up to 750 euros or have their debt been forgiven? I didn't get any clarity on that. I would find it particularly regrettable that people who want to organise such a project from the goodness of their hearts should be punished for that and pay a substantial sum. That cannot have been the intention of this project.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic504x.u16	Attached questions No 55015776C by Mrs Thibaut and No 55015936C by Mrs Gijbels are postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic504x.u17	Mr President, Mrs de Laveleye, on the basis of the experience of our legal representatives, a decision by the Court of Justice of the European Union is not expected until 2022. This decision will still have to be confirmed by the Council of State in its judgment, which brings us to the end of 2022-beginning 2023 in order to obtain an answer. In view of the separation of powers, it is therefore preferable to await the replies of the Court of Justice of the European Union to the questions referred for a preliminary ruling and the decision of the Council of State before reviewing our position on the subject. Until proven otherwise, we consider that there is a legal basis for granting derogations for neonicotinoids.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic504x.u18	Minister, thank you. You are absolutely right not to comment on a court decision, especially since it is under way. I may point out that, regardless of the process before the Court, there are two elements in the analysis of the granting of derogations that are the particular circumstances and this notion of what cannot be controlled by other reasonable means. We continue to hope that our administrations, which have little time and resources, will be able to give themselves all the necessary means to document these two dimensions. Unfortunately, it is known that, from year to year, the justifications that were valid one, two or even three years ago may be repeated without repeating a fundamental work of justification. We will, of course, wait for the answers in 2022. In this way, we encourage you and your administration to go as far as possible in the ways that are being given to carry out these exemption analyses correctly - not that this is not correct, but perhaps that we are not giving ourselves the necessary resources.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic504x.u19	Mr President, Mrs de Laveleye, the European Commission asked EFSA in 2019 to update its guidance document. In the answer to your parliamentary question No 55090981C of 25 September 2020, we answered in detail justifying our support for approach No 2. Since most of the states had supported it, EFSA carried out its scientific work. In his report, he defined operating ranges, normal colony variability, and explained his scientific work. This document was first presented in a transparent meeting with the Member States. Considering the operating ranges as a whole, the mean value of normal colony size variability for the 19 modeled scenarios was 23%. Accepting such a value is tantamount to admitting that in the absence of exposure to pesticides, the size of a colony may be 23% smaller than the average colony size. This is exactly what EFSA has scientifically demonstrated. Finally, it is important to note that accepting an effect level higher than the 7% set in 2013 does not necessarily mean that bees will be less protected. In addition, risk assessment of pesticide effects on bees is a very complex issue, in which many parameters are taken into account in determining exposure and effects. The government agreement provides for a plan to reduce pesticides. In accordance with that agreement, I am relying on scientific reasoning to determine the measures to be taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic504x.u20	In the light of the scientific analyses carried out by the environmental sector that I have read, a reduction of 23% is enormous. This poses a major risk to the survival of a certain species of bees. However, Minister, I must not remind you that without bees, there is no agriculture possible, nor really sustainable biodiversity. I am therefore very concerned about the turn of this new Bee Plan at European level. I do not know how to move environmental issues further up the EFSA level. I have to check on the next steps, especially since my question was tabled some time ago. I would also like to point out that Europe's new biodiversity strategy is more recent than the work of EFSA and the new Bee Plan. I wonder if there are any major tensions between the new European strategy to protect biodiversity and the old strategy. We will therefore find ourselves in a situation which is not desirable for the future of our agriculture and our biodiversity. It will therefore be necessary to follow this file closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic504x.u21	Minister, this issue has been raised in several inquiries that I received at the announcement of the release of the Avrox mask market. Avrox masks have been removed from the market for potential toxicity "by caution" (these are the words of the Minister of Health). This decision was taken on the basis of a report by Sciensano and an opinion of the Higher Council of Health, these masks containing silver nanoparticles and titanium dioxide particles. Laboratory and animal studies suggest that if such particles are inhaled, they can spread to other organs and cause damage in certain forms and doses. In this case, the government seems to have chosen a strict reading of the precautionary principle and has conducted a precautionary risk analysis. Minister, does this episode influence the application of the precautionary principle and the risk analysis for the agricultural sector, particularly in everything that is the use of pesticides (herbicides or insecticides), some of which are used despite European bans and/or despite reports from the Higher Health Council asking us to get out as soon as possible? There is a specific example of glyphosate, but there are others. Thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic504x.u22	Madame de Laveleye, the decision to remove the Avrox brand masks from the market due to their potential toxicity was made by the Minister of Health. I see no logical link between this decision and decisions based on risk analysis for plant products. These are two completely independent issues. In the case of masks, as you indicate, a risk assessment has been conducted. In the case of glyphosate, on the other hand, the Higher Council of Health did not carry out a risk assessment, but the risk assessment conducted by the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) and my competent administration demonstrated a completely acceptable risk. As I developed in my policy note, I would like to recall here my priorities for the use of plant products. They take into account the sustainability of our society, that is, the search for a better balance between economic, environmental and social aspects. With this in mind, the Public Health FPS will continue to ensure the strict application of a scientifically sound and legal risk assessment methodology, using high safety factors. In order to limit socio-economic consequences, they are asked to go as far as possible by imposing realistic measures and mitigating risks in order to ensure that the authorised use of pesticides continues to meet the legal criteria. I will therefore ensure that the risk assessment takes place in accordance with European legislation based on a scientific assessment by the competent administration as set out in the government agreement. It is only by adhering to a scientific assessment that it is possible to act in a coherent and equitable manner.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic504x.u23	Minister, thank you. I'm not going to say that for a long time. I'm just a little surprised when I hear you say that you see no connection between the two questions. In both cases, there are health and environmental issues. Of course, with the Avrox masks, health issues were on the front line. The stakes for the environment, through the issue of biocides, came second. But when we talk about plant protection products in general or pesticides, we know that there are risks to both health and the environment. I obviously welcome the federal government's decision to strictly follow the precautionary principle in the Avrox masks. It was reassuring to know that when a risk is identified, it is considered. Nevertheless, this must inspire us in approaches with other types of risks that we know to be major today for the defence of our health and for our biodiversity.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic504x.u24	Madame de Laveleye, notwithstanding the limitations of federal jurisdiction over agriculture, we did not wait for the recommendations of the OECD report to take care of pollinators. In its environmental assessment of Belgium, the OECD highlights the particular attention we paid to pollinators following the adoption in 2017 of a national risk assessment procedure for bees. We are extending our contribution to the restoration of biodiversity by developing, within the framework of the national action plan to reduce the risks associated with the use of pesticides, a project to visualize the evolution of the health of pollinators with the evolution of the use of plant products, which are harmful to them. This project is part of the Belgian national pollinator strategy for the period 2021-2030. In collaboration with the Regions, we already take into account the impact of agriculture on water quality. This collaboration, initiated as part of the 2012-2017 programme of the National Action Plan, started in 2019 and still needs to come to fruition. With regard to the placing of plant products on the market, we assume our role in strict compliance with the legislation. As for the choice and extent of the use of plant products, we can only accompany regional policies as best we can (phytolicities, marketing, ease of use of biopesticides, coordination of the napper...). I consider that taxing more has never provided a solution except to encourage users to bypass the system. I am rather in favour of finding innovative solutions to reduce the use of substances that are potentially harmful to our environment. The negotiations to be conducted under the Green Deal and its Farm to Fork strategy will provide an opportunity for Belgium to define the extent of the reduction in the use of plant products and how this can be achieved. The long term can only be envisaged by a common policy within Europe. I also pay particular attention to the non-trade aspects of free trade agreements, which need to more fully reflect social and environmental clauses in the value of traded products.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic504x.u25	Minister, thank you for your answer. The OECD report ranks us among the worst students in terms of pesticide sales as well as in terms of nitrogen balance per hectare. I know that we are moving forward at both the regional and federal levels and looking for solutions. Let me tell you, however, that your answer to the question of taxation is somewhat succinct. I wish we could have an analysis of the relevance of this lever. Some European countries use it, notably Denmark. It would be interesting, since this is a rather central recommendation in the OECD report, to have a slightly more detailed analysis of the opportunities and limitations of this tool. I am not saying that I believe that this is the magic wand that will help us solve the problem. But I think it would be worth going to the end, as this is an OECD recommendation that is not known to be farfetched in terms of the environment. On the other hand, you were right to say that the federal government had to accompany the Regions in the search for alternatives to get out of the consumption of plant protection products and so that we could become as soon as possible the good students of the OECD rather than stay behind, as has been the case for too long.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic504x.u26	Minister, both abroad and in Belgium there were many corona outbreaks in slaughterhouses and/or meat processing plants. It is also due to external factors such as: working conditions, the use of temporary, often foreign workers with a temporary and very uncertain status, which make them more afraid of losing their income, their living conditions and the lack of good ventilation. In the meantime, foreign studies show that COOVID-19 can survive on chilled and frozen meat and fish products. Researchers conclude that the virus can also survive on food at common temperatures for processing, storage and transport. Professor Herwig Leirs of the University of Antwerp even states that nothing is better for a mutating virus than the circulation it gets in intensive livestock farming. We live very close to the animals compared to the rest of the world. Mr Minister, do you have any idea of the overall problem of contamination in meat processing establishments and the spread of COOVID-19 via frozen fish or meat in Flanders? Have certain specific measures been taken in this respect? Will certain infrastructure measures be envisaged in the long term to reduce the risk of spreading COOVID-19 in and through the meat processing industry? Finally, do you have any idea whether the relevant reports have influenced the consumption of meat or fish in our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic504x.u27	Mr Moyaers, scientists do not already use the hypothesis of contamination via meat to explain the many cases of COVID-19 in slaughterhouses. They assume that this has to do with the activity of the companies themselves, even though they have not yet identified the origin of the infections. They currently see the living conditions of the workers, the close working relationship, the physically exhaustive work, the fact that the protective measures are difficult to apply in this closed environment, as the main factors. In addition, the specific conditions in slaughterhouses, namely cold and humidity, necessary for the meat, and the ventilation circuit, would facilitate the spread of the virus. The public health aspects of the COVID-19 crisis are managed at federal level by the Risk Assessment Group and the Risk Management Group. The veterinary aspects are managed by the Risk Assessment Group Covid-Animals or RAGCA. The experts here consider that production animals, with the current state of knowledge, should be considered as a negligible risk. RAGCA assessed on the basis of the matrix with regard to the risks of food that difficulties as negligible compared to the risk of direct transfer between humans. There were already very strict rules and hygiene instructions, especially for the hands, in force. Compliance with those measures and their monitoring should allow for maximum reduction of potential risks. Because it is mainly a problem relating to working conditions, transport and the place of employment of workers in slaughterhouses, the whole problem was managed by the competent services, which depend on the Minister for Economic Affairs and Labour. I have not received any negative information from the sector on a potential impact on meat or fish consumption.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic504x.u28	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I conclude, above all, that the experts have still not identified the origin of the infections today, at least not in such establishments. I will certainly come back to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic504x.u29	Mrs Dierick is apologized, her question goes without object.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic504x.u30	Mr Minister, over 150 different products containing sesame seeds, most of which come from India, have been removed from the shelves that have been contaminated with ethylene oxide, a gas that can kill fungi and bacteria. This was done after a complaint from the Italian authorities on sesame seeds originating in our country. Across the EU, the Rapid Alert System for Food and Feed has already sent out over 600 alarm signals. Chronic contact with ethylene oxide could lead to the development of kidney and liver cancer. Toxicologist Jan Tytgat says that very sporadic use is not harmful, but that this is a danger for people who consume sesame seeds daily. The BFSA would have checked only sporadicly for ethylene oxide, according to the spokesperson, because there were no known problems, now there would be systematic monitoring. Meanwhile, the BFSA also confirms that it carries out controls on ethylene oxide on other products from India, such as ginger and turmeric. The BFSA controls 650 different pesticides, but does not check ethylene oxide before the complaint. However, our country is a turntable for the import of sesame seeds. Why were no checks carried out for the complaint from Italy? What is the procedure for determining which substances are controlled and which are not? Who's responsible? Has there been an investigation in the meantime? Who is responsible for importing the contaminated sesame seed? Are there any sanctions? In the meantime, are these checks also being carried out on sesame seeds from other countries? Is ethylene oxide now also controlled for other products? If so, on which? Has the Indian authorities been contacted about the problem? What will happen to the rejected sesame seed? There are exports to Canada and the US, where ethylene standards would be higher. Do you think this is a good idea from a health point of view?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic504x.u31	My answer also concerns Mrs Dierick's question. The contamination of sesame seeds with ethylene oxide was reported by an Italian operator to its various suppliers as part of the auto-control. They informed the BFSA at the end of August 2020. More than 1,500 active substances, whether or not authorised as plant protection products in Europe, are listed in the European database. For practical, analytical and budgetary reasons, it is impossible to control all residues that may result from the legal or non-legal use of plant protection products in the world. The BFSA analyses are of the broadest within Europe, as stated in the latest European report of the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) on pesticide residues control. Every year, the BFSA takes about 3,000 samples of fruit, vegetables, cereals and so on. These are analysed for the presence of a total of 650 different pesticide residues authorised or not in Europe. Ethylene oxide is a substance that can only be analysed by a specific method. When the problem came to light, only a few laboratories in Europe were able to analyse this substance. Neither the BFSA nor any other Member State carried out analyses on ethylene oxide residues during the official routine controls. In the meantime, laboratories have developed the necessary methods of analysis to enable Member States to carry out controls. Secondly, as far as responsibilities and sanctions are concerned, the importer is responsible for the products he imports and puts on the European market. The importers who have imported non-compliant sesame seed are in breach of EU 396/2005 Regulation. The dossier will therefore be followed up, including on the issue of sanctions. Thirdly, as regards seed from countries other than India, the presence of ethylene oxide residues in sesame seeds from India has become a systemic problem. However, since October 2020 there has been an enhanced European import control to ensure compliance with the MRL, including ethylene oxide. Fourthly, as regards the analysis of other foodstuffs, the examination of ethylene oxide residues under the BFSA control programme was extended to spices and some types of seeds, such as oilseeds and psyllium seeds imported from India or other third countries. Fifthly, with regard to contacts with the Indian authorities, the problem of ethylene oxide in products imported from third countries is a problem of competence of the European Commission and not of the Member States. However, Belgium is cooperating very proactively. The European Commission has been in contact with the Indian authorities to ensure that this situation is resolved as soon as possible. The enhanced controls on imports of sesame seed originating in India shall include an official certificate of analysis showing that the sesame seed complies with the European MRLs for each consignment of sesame seed arriving in Europe. In addition, 50% of imported parties should also be analysed upon arrival in Europe. Sixth, as regards the use of these seeds, in accordance with European legislation, lots of sesame seeds not conforming to the European MRL may be sent to a third country, provided that evidence can be submitted that the parties concerned meet the MRL set for ethylene oxide in that country. Each country is free to set its own standards, it is not for me to determine them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic504x.u32	Minister, I am glad that you think it is indeed an important issue. Thank you for your detailed answer. In any case, I am partly reassured that the special methods of detection have been extended, that it is improving and that control is also being stepped up. That is a good thing. I think this is important, first and foremost, because of food safety. We must take responsibility for this at all times. I read that Belgium would be a turntable for the import of sesame seeds, and if so much sesame seeds were contaminated, that would be a cause for concern. Then it is indeed important that this case be followed up. We take responsibility for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic504x.u33	At his request, Question No 55017015C by Mr Arens is transformed into a written question. Secondly, I note the absence of Mrs Thibaut and Mr Prévot, who did not inform them of their absence.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic504x.u34	Mr President, Mrs Thibaut informed me that she had written to the services. Maybe there was a bad understanding. Right now, she's sitting on another commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic504x.u35	And she asked to postpone her questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic504x.u36	No, she asked to turn some questions into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic504x.u37	We'll check it out. Otherwise, the Regulations provide in section 127.10 that the question of a member who does not provide news shall be deemed to be withdrawn. Since I have received no news from Mr Prévot, his questions Nos. 55017024C and 5517509C are withdrawn. As for Mrs Thibaut, we will check exactly what she is asking for. It still seems to me quite elementary to apologize or to make known what we want.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic504x.u38	Mr President, Minister, as expected, the European Commission released its report on new genomic technologies (NGT) or "new GMOs" on 29 April 2021. As a reminder, a judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union acts that European legislation applies, at this stage, to all products derived from new techniques modifying the genome. The Commission's report, based on a consultation of Member States and stakeholders, the vast majority of whom come from biotechnology companies, states that NGTs have the potential to contribute to sustainable food systems, that they could benefit several sectors of our society and that the legislation of 2001 is not adapted to these new technologies. However, it recognises concerns about the environmental impacts of these NGTs, particularly on biodiversity and non-GMO crops. The next steps were discussions which concluded in May 2021 in the Council of Agriculture Ministers, in the European Parliament and with stakeholders, as well as a broad public consultation to discuss options for a new regulation. The Belgian contribution to the study states quite frankly that the opportunities associated with these NGTs are important in terms of agriculture – resistance to drought, disease, etc. As a reminder, several recent scientific studies show that new genome editing technologies allow simultaneous or successive gene changes and that, given the relatively large amount of changes that can be introduced into a single plant, the result is the production of a greater amount of unintentional effects. They show that genetic errors can lead to unintended effects such as the production of new toxins, allergens, alterations in nutritional value, metabolism, unpredictable impacts on other organisms, including humans, and on food chains and ecosystems. Minister, how was the Belgian contribution produced? Which body has it validated? What position has Belgium taken at the last Council of Agriculture Ministers and will it hold in the coming weeks at the next Councils of Environment Ministers? How do you integrate the new concerns of the environmental and scientific sector, which warns about the potentially uncontrollable impacts of these new technologies on ecosystems? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic504x.u39	Madame de Laveleye, as regards Belgium's contribution, the Belgian contribution to the study on new genomic techniques is a compilation, carried out by the SPF Santé, of the replies received from the experts of the competent regional authorities, of the AFSCA, of Sciensano, of the national reference laboratory, of the Advisory Council of Biosecurity and of the Advisory Committee of Bioethics. These opinions were the subject of a DGE coordination meeting held on Friday 21 May 2021 in preparation for the European Council of Agriculture Ministers on 26 and 27 May. As far as Belgium's position is concerned, the new genomic techniques constitute a varied set of techniques, each of which can be used in different ways to obtain different results and products. Consultations still need to be carried out and a science-based approach should be favoured. The results of the Commission's study should be examined with great attention. The Council meeting on the subject took place in Brussels on 26 May. That is why I have announced, on behalf of Belgium, an examination reservation in this very preliminary phase of this global debate, in order to take the time to analyse things in depth and to assess the next steps proposed by the Commission. I am convinced that this sensitive subject will be of great importance for the future of European agriculture, in particular by participating in the achievement of the objectives set out in the "farm to fork" strategy. As far as the various opinions are concerned, while Europe is thinking, some third countries are already at a pre-commercial stage, with modified animals from the new genomic techniques that will be on the world market in the near future and will require a harmonised approach at European level. Also, confined industrial applications of micro-organisms derived from these techniques alone or combined are already a reality. They must therefore be taken into account for the future. The future European regulatory framework should ensure the safety of products and their production, both in terms of environmental health and the risk of farmers being dependent on a monopoly. It is therefore absolutely necessary to define risks and opportunities while remaining proactive about micro-organisms and animals derived from these techniques. Risk assessment requirements are closely linked to scientific progress. All available scientific data should be taken into account in order to ensure a high level of protection for human and animal health and the environment.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic504x.u40	Mr Minister, I thank you, especially for having reserved your examination – if I have understood the terms you have used – and for ensuring that Belgium does not rush into its position in view of the multiplicity of sources and concerns of the various sectors. I would like to take this opportunity to recall that, so far, the GMOs of previous generations have not brought about the solutions that had been hoped for in terms of sustainability, farmers' autonomy or environmental and health protection. For the time being, the countries that use the most GMOs are also the countries most dependent on chemical inputs, for example. It is recognized that GMOs, rather than improving the quality of our soil, water and health, have contributed to our dependence on other products that are potentially harmful to all ecosystems. You are right to insist on the need to rely on scientific studies. There's only one thing we can do. We're not going to start inventing all-round solutions. We are following this issue very closely and, for the time being, the existing scientific studies pose so many questions. As ecologists, we encourage you and your federal colleagues to continue your extremely cautious approach and not to engage Belgium in an inconsiderate manner in this direction until we have a clear vision. Mr President, one last thing: it seems to me very important that we ask for a public debate. That is what Europe is asking for. I do not yet have a clear vision of how it will actually be organised. Will this take place through Parliament or through other meetings? In this regard, I think we need to show some creativity. Indeed, these issues are extremely interesting and they are of real interest to a large population. We must try to be creative and make this debate truly public and accessible to all stakeholders, and not only to those who have the most means to be heard. We know that they are not always the ones that are most favourable to the environment.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic504x.u41	Question No 55017752C by Mrs H annoyance is transformed into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament 55017991C by Mrs Dierick has also been converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic504x.u42	Minister, I refer to my question, but I would like to point out that I have also put the same questions to your fellow ministers Mrs Khattabi and Mr Vandenbroucke, because I know you are going to refer to them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic504x.u43	Mr President, Mrs Creemers, the elaboration and follow-up of the national action plan is done through the Joint Inter-Ministerial Conference on the Environment and Health, in which my colleagues responsible for Health and the Environment are represented. The design of the NAPED will be submitted to the Ministers of Environment through a GICLG in September 2021 for prior validation. A public consultation will then be held in October-November 2021. The final validation of the NAPED is planned for December 2021, so that the first actions can be launched at the beginning of 2022. The implementation of the actions to be included in the NAPED will be followed by the NAPED Task Force. At the moment, the National Action Plan NAPED is being developed within the FPS Public Health according to the 'one world one health' vision. This is done in consultation with all competent administrations at federal, regional and community level through the Environmental Health Cell with the aim of reducing the exposure of the Belgian population and the environment to hormone disruptors. Three priority lines were defined, namely prevention and actions, regulatory actions at national and/or European level and scientific research. The various competent services within the Public Health Office will therefore be involved in the implementation of the NAPED, taking into account existing European and national legislation and the measures to be taken by the European Commission on the basis of the results of the fitness check of European legislation on hormone disrupters. Some actions will be included in other national action plans, such as the Federal Sustainable Development Plan, the National Environmental Health Action Plan and the coordinated reduction plans for plant protection products. Other actions take place at European level. The Public Health Office will contribute to the prevention actions, awareness raising and training of the different target groups and the identification of hormone disrupters under the legislation on plant protection products and biocidal products. Once a substance has been identified as hormone disrupting, it automatically leads to a general ban. As far as regulatory actions are concerned, the FPS Public Health and the FPS Economy will examine the most appropriate economic instruments to allow the entire Belgian population access to products with less or no hormone disrupters and encourage products containing hormone disrupters to be replaced by alternatives. At European level, Belgium will advocate a ban on the use of hormone disruptors with identified risk for consumer goods destined for the most vulnerable population. Through the Contractual Research cell, the FPS Public Health manages the research programme on food safety and animal and plant health. In recent years, twelve different projects related to hormone disruptors in relation to food or food packaging have been financed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic504x.u44	Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensive answer. I hear some very interesting things. I do have a point of criticism. You refer to the Sustainable Development Plan. It gave me the idea to put this question to you. This was very often about prevention and communication. If we have learned something from communication campaigns in the past, we must make the most sustainable choice, the most healthy one, the most logical one. A product that may be dangerous for a vulnerable target group, without any real evidence, we have to make it the most expensive option, otherwise people will continue to buy it. We have to be very careful about that. At the same time, I am very pleased to hear you say that this will accelerate in September 2021, with a public consultation in October and completion by the end of this year. So I will put it on my list to come back to that at the beginning of 2022 and ask for a state of affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic504x.u45	Mrs Creemers, as the new national strategy on pollinators for the period 2021-2030 is still in preparation, it is too early to be able to answer your specific questions in detail. The design and progress of the plan and the follow-up of the various action points of the plan are ensured by the federal task force set up for this purpose. This task force consists of representatives of the DG Animal, Plant and Nutrition, the DG Environment and the cell Contractual Research of the FPS Public Health, the Federal Agency for the Safety of the Food Chain and the Federal Agency for Medicines and Health Products. The evaluation process of the 2017-2019 plan is ongoing. The completion of all the scientific studies is awaited in order to include them in the evaluation. The results will be published as soon as the conclusions are available. Moreover, the public consultation on the draft Belgian national strategy on pollinators for the period 2021-2030 continues until 10 July. Finally, I can inform you that the possible effects of plant protection products on pollinators are already being taken into account when granting marketing authorisations for those products. As you know, EFSA is working at European level, among other things, on a stricter evaluation methodology for bees, and my administration is actively contributing to this. Research into alternatives to pesticides is the responsibility of the Regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic504x.u46	It is new to me, Minister, that the public consultation is still ongoing. I will certainly look for that, because it is important that it is as public as possible and that we collect as much input as possible. I think it is a little late that the evaluation of the previous plan is still ongoing, because it was completed in 2019. I have already asked a lot of questions about this to your predecessor in the course of 2019. Maybe those answers can help with the evaluation. It is, however, a good thing that this is taken into account, because I personally expected more of that plan, especially when it comes to scientific research into the impact of pesticides on the well-being and reduction of bee populations. I will also add this to my list to follow up in the autumn so that this evaluation can be thoroughly examined.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic504x.u47	Mrs. Creemers, my cabinet is working with the administration. The FPS Public Health has supported the FUTURES4FOOD project to obtain Belspo's grant and is part of the steering committee for the project. After all, it is important to have an in-depth social debate on the establishment of a sustainable food chain. The project will take stock of the scientific state of play and, where appropriate, fill gaps. The FPS Public Health closely follows developments in the scientific team and provides input on health, environment and food safety. In the meantime, the project team led by the Institute for the Future has been composed with the recruitment of researchers from the various disciplines from the KUL, UCL, Flanders Business School and shiftN. The team determined the organisational structure of the project, distributed the workload, established the methodological framework and drew up the work plan. The steering committee will be convened in September and that will also be the official start meeting to make the project known to the world. The project comprises two different research areas for which the work starts simultaneously, but one project on cereal production will be completed after two years, while the project on protein transition will be over four years, because it is a much broader, more complex and sensitive subject. The steering committee will monitor the progress of the project, while the FPS Health services will monitor and, where necessary, adjust the evolution and planning through the biweekly project meetings. With regard to research on more sustainable food production systems, discussions are ongoing with Belspo in the context of its call for the BRAIN-be 2.0 programme for 2022-2023. A number of proposals were made by the Public Health Office, including the impact of climate change on agriculture and animal production, the role of food systems and priority policy actions to promote healthy nutrition from sustainable systems. The Secretary of State for Science Policy will make a final decision on this matter next summer. My cabinet will soon participate in an inter-kabinets working group on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic504x.u48	Mr. Secretary, thank you for your update. It is positive that we are committed to scientific research into more sustainable food systems in all possible areas. For example, it is a good thing that four years of research will be carried out on protein transition. Hopefully we'll get some more information in the meantime, because the transition cannot wait four years. I have every confidence in a successful outcome, given, among other things, those involved and the organisation of two-week project meetings. I would therefore like to call for a report from the various parts of the project to be presented to us in the meantime. So we can immediately enjoy the initial findings.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic504x.u49	Question No 55018333C by Mrs De Block is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic504x.u50	Mr Prévot, without any news from you and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I had stated that your questions were withdrawn. But since you're here, I suggest you put them down. I think the minister will be happy to answer that question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic504x.u51	Mr President, thank you. Mr. Minister, I should not be too late because I was attending a meeting that included members of his cabinet. Minister, titanium dioxide (E171) is a food additive frequently used for its colouring properties, especially in confectionery, which is very often consumed by children. On 6 May, at the request of the European Commission, the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) considered that a risk of genotoxicity through this dye could not be excluded. Genotoxicity refers to the ability of a chemical to damage DNA and hence the genetic material of cells. EFSA recalls that this is an advisory opinion and that only the Member States can take a decision on the use of this addendum. In Belgium, the Higher Council of Health considers titanium dioxide to be "a possible carcinogen (category 2B)". I believe, Mr Minister, that a precautionary principle should be adopted in Belgium, as is the case in France. In October 2020, the European Parliament was already advocating this and we must anticipate any health scandal, especially when we know that the main consumers of E171 are children. Minister, have you read the recent EFSA report? What will be Belgium's position on the use of additive E171 in our country? Do you not find it wise to apply the precautionary principle, as it is practiced in France?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic504x.u52	Mr President, Mr Prévot, allow me first of all to correct a point. The Higher Council of Health has not issued any opinion on the carcinogenic risk of titanium dioxide as a food additive, i.e. through ingestion. His opinion on the masks is about the risk by inhalation, which is different. With regard to the EFSA report, on 5 May 2021 I was informed by the Public Health FPS that the following day the report of the European Food Safety Authority on the re-evaluation of titanium dioxide had been released. The SPF experts analysed this new EFSA opinion. EFSA concluded that E171 can no longer be considered a safe food additive because genotoxicity problems cannot be excluded after consumption, i.e. the effects of damage to the genetic material of cells (DNA and chromosomes) but no mutagenic effect. On the position of Belgium, the Health FPS took a position, on behalf of Belgium, at the Working Group of Experts Additives of the competent authorities of the Member States, which the European Commission met on 18 May as a matter of urgency. Belgium supported the Commission's proposal to ban E171. The Health FPS requested that the ban measures be taken at European level as soon as possible with the shortest transition period, in the same way for all the products concerned. In the meantime, the Health FPS recommended that all operators in the food chain begin immediately to stop the use of E171 in the manufacture or development of food products or to seek legally authorised alternatives. This recommendation was made to all stakeholders and to the members of the Food Policy Advisory Board of the Health FPS at the May 11 meeting. It was published on the Health FPS website on 12 May. With regard to the precautionary principle, EFSA had reassessed the E171 in 2016 and 2018. At that time, she had not identified any proven or assumed problems and had identified some uncertainties. In 2019, EFSA reviewed the technical specifications of E171 for its nanometric fraction, thanks in particular to research commissioned by SPF Santé and carried out by Sciensano. I was also able to visit Sciensano's electronic microscopy facilities on May 18th, in order to find out, in the field, the quality of the E171 research. The new scientific information has enabled EFSA to carry out a more comprehensive risk assessment on the basis of which the European Commission, in collaboration with the Member States of the European Union, will take appropriate action. It would be logical for the Commission to propose that this dye no longer be used. Be aware that Belgium will not wait for the European decision. In fact, the press release on the Health FPS website since May 12th: "Waiting for the final decision, the Health FPS recommends that all operators start immediately to stop the use of E171 in the manufacture and development of food products or to search for legally authorised alternatives."
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic504x.u53	Minister, thank you for clarifying that on this specific point, there was no opinion of the Higher Council of Health, in any case on the aspect of additives. However, I am pleased to have the confirmation that the Health FPS has taken a position and supported the proposal to ban E171, with a desire to remove it as soon as possible, with a very short transition period, and recommending that all operators stop using this additive and consider other additives. I think that, more than ever, the precautionary principle is needed in such sensitive materials, and certainly with additives that can be in contact with children. I am therefore pleased to hear that our country has followed the path of wisdom.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic504x.u54	Minister, sodium nitrite or E250 is a ubiquitous preservative in the agri-food industry, particularly in charcuterie. According to the Cancer Foundation, due to its presence, 50 grams of charcuterie per day would increase the risk of colorectal cancer by 18%. In the blood, this preservative prevents the fixation of dioxygen on the hemoglobin molecule, which has a toxic effect. The European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) points out that vigilance is particularly important for high-consumer children. If all dietary sources of nitrites are considered, the acceptable daily intake may be exceeded for all population categories. The consumer remains free and responsible for his/her choices but only if he/she is well informed about the purchased product and its capacity as potential carcinogen preservatives. The only small print indication of E250 is, in my view, insufficient. Minister, should we not better warn the consumer about the presence of sodium nitrite in the charcuterie? Can better information on the product be considered so that the consumer is notified of the presence of sodium nitrite in the purchased product?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic504x.u55	Mr President, Mr Prévot, in France, Parliament has indeed proposed that the use of nitrite as a food additive should be phased out. However, this subject is part of an area which is completely harmonised at European level, which means that it is up to the Commission to propose possible restrictive measures in consultation with the Member States and that national measures are strictly limited by the provisions of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Discussions are under way at European level to review the conditions for the use of nitrite and nitrate in processed meat. The Public Health FPS representing Belgium is also in contact with Belgian stakeholders and communicates on its work within its Food Policy Advisory Board. The common intention is to reduce exposure and simplify the legislation that is currently too complex. The most difficult discussions concern specific products known as "traditional products" for which exceptions had been requested and granted in the past. It would be a simplification to remove or at least drastically reduce these exceptions. In Belgium, the Public Health FPS is the competent authority in this field and the Higher Council of Health is the competent scientific advisory body. The AFSCA's role is to monitor compliance with the legislation. Given the ongoing work at European level and the rules in force on the legislative process in this area, it is certainly not appropriate or appropriate to take Belgian measures at present. As regards labelling and consumer information, the general rules on the labelling of prepackaged foodstuffs apply for sodium nitrite as for other additives. These must be included in the list of ingredients with their specific name or E number preceded by the additive category in question, i.e. preservative in the case of sodium nitrite. There are also rules on the legibility of mandatory statements, including the list of ingredients. They shall be marked in an apparent place so as to be easily visible and clearly legible in a body whose height of the characters equivalent to the letter x is 1.2 mm or more. I do not believe that any special or complementary rules that would only apply to sodium nitrite are justified at this stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic504x.u56	Minister, thank you for your answers. Since my question was tabled, I have read more about the subject. Since work is under way at European level, national measures, like those taken by France, would remain limited and inappropriate. I will not fail to follow the European debate and will return to you once a common position has been adopted. However, I am pleased to have heard that the intention was to reduce its use.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic504x.u57	Mrs Creemers, I suspect you sent the same question to Mrs Khattabi. That question has come back to this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic504x.u58	Mr President, I did indeed put the same question to Minister Clarinval and Minister Khattabi because I doubted who was competent. In this case, it is double clear that you are competent, Minister. The British government decided to make potting land for private individuals free of peat from 2024 onwards. I had a lot to do with that in my previous job. I am convinced that there are fully-fledged alternatives that may still have to be examined on a large scale, but they are indeed there. We can no longer use ecocheques for the purchase of peat, and that is a good thing, because it is absolutely not ecologically sound to use peat. Minister, what are your views on the British Government's initiative? Can we do the same in Europe? Are you going to argue for that in Europe? What policies are needed to reduce the peat content or possibly even reduce it to zero, because it can be otherwise?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic504x.u59	Mrs Creemers, replacing peat with other raw materials of natural origin is more complex than it seems. The protection and maintenance of active peat bogs or the creation of new peat bogs is a complex process. Full analysis of the life cycle of the raw material is necessary. Compost, for example, the main candidate for the substitution of peat, is heavier than peat. This leads to an increase in long-distance CO2 consumption. The Royal Decree of 28 January 2013 contains the list of raw materials authorised in Belgium to make potting soil. Although the list contains a wide range of authorised raw material types, peat remains an important component of the products placed on the market. The reason for this is that peat has many agronomic properties. For example, potting soil should not have too high salt content, which can be phytotoxic. This will prevent the germination of seeds and limit the development of plants by hindering the absorption of nutrients. Compost already has an intrinsically high salt content. It is therefore not possible to completely replace peat with compost. From a regulatory perspective, the Royal Decree of 28 January 2013 currently applies. However, as from 16 July 2022, the European Regulation EU 2019/2009 will enter into force. Potting soil regulation will go from the national level to the European level. An amendment to this regulation will therefore have to be made at European level. Producers are sensitive to the impact of their raw materials on the environment. The Flemish initiative to sensitise producers and find alternatives is therefore a good idea. Agrinomic research falls within the competence of the Regions. Belgium, on the other hand, should not prohibit or restrict the presence of peat in potting grounds. In the light of the European Regulation EU 2019/2009, it is also not possible to prohibit the placing on the market of these products. Regulatory initiatives to limit the use of peat are possible through the creation of an eco-label, for example through Decision 2015/2099 of 18 November 2015. We should also note that peat is allowed in organic farming because it is a natural raw material, according to regulation EU 2019/2064.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic504x.u60	Minister, it is very important to focus on the alternatives. You refer to the ongoing agronomic research carried out by the Länder, and we will certainly have our colleagues submit questions about this. I think it is important to keep following this debate. I understand that many individuals and farmers rely on peat, but in the areas where it is being exploited it is no longer sustainable to continue to do so. I really think that we are at the moment of tilting and that we should use as much as possible, both at federal, European and regional level, on these alternatives in order to have a ready-to-use response to this phase-out. I am not asking for it to be phased out from one moment to the next, because Britain will not do it until 2024. However, I would ask you to be vigilant and to put as much effort as possible on that study of alternatives and, if possible, to phase it out.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic504x.u61	Mr Minister, Mr Moyaers has already asked a question on the subject. I will certainly take that answer with me for a piece. My question is specifically about the legal prohibition for approved non-profit organisations to accept dry food and the cooperation with the BFSA around it. If your answer to Mr Moyaert's question is the same, I will read it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic504x.u62	Mrs Creemers, as regards the legal aspect, the Royal Decree of 16 January 2006 provides that operators may only supply with products from registered operators. This means that non-profit organisations, like other operators in the food chain, can only be supplied by operators known to the BFSA. Then I come to your question about the risk. Under no circumstances should a two-speed food safety be created by working outside the scope of the legislation in force. Everyone has the right to safe food, both the modal consumer and the people who are struggling. In the case of dry food, microbiological risks are rather limited, but not entirely excluded in case of incorrect storage or in case of damage. Because the products come from private individuals, neither the associations nor the BFSA have an insight into the storage conditions prior to the donation. That is necessary in order to offer everyone the same guarantee. Then I get the numbers. The BFSA makes a distinction between two activities for food banks and charitable associations. In the first case, the associations shall distribute only foodstuffs with a shelf life of at least three months at ambient temperature. This is the case for dry food. That is why registration is sufficient. In the second case, associations can distribute all foodstuffs. That category requires an authorisation from the BFSA. For all categories together, 809 associations were counted in 2020 compared to 642 in 2016. With regard to the guidance of these associations by the BFSA, specific donation guidelines and facilitations were developed regarding the interpretation of shelf life dates, traceability, labelling and freezing of pre-packaged foods. In addition, food banks and charities may benefit from an exemption from the annual levy if they fulfil certain conditions. In addition, the information and guidance cell of the BFSA offers free training on good hygiene practices. Finally, the BFSA has launched a project on Food Safety and Food Donations Foundations with the aim of monitoring the difficulties and misunderstandings faced by the actors in the field and providing solutions. In 2018, there were 25 complaints, of which 4 related to dry food. For 2019, there are 47 complaints, of which 1 concerns dry food and a total of 35 complaints by 2020, of which 2 concerns dry food.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic504x.u63	Thank you, Minister, for the detailed answer. I had indeed asked for figures in the written question, which I had translated into an oral question, because it might be the last session with Minister Clarinval before the summer recess. I have to find out whether you are also providing a solution to the problem mentioned by Mr Moyaers for smaller associations, such as the Association Without Hunger To Bed, which really want to do well and not as the Food Bank is registered. Perhaps the option you move forward to register as a non-profit association and then register makes it possible to work with dry food without having to pay contributions. We would then allow them to cooperate with the BFSA, without having to pay large contributions. That cannot, of course, be the intention of the small initiatives. I have to go through the details of your reply to see if it will be enough, otherwise I will talk about it in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic504x.u64	Minister, the Federal Agency for the Safety of the Food Chain (AFSCA) conducted a large-scale operation between September and December 2020 to analyse the various fraud processes in the tuna sector. In the end, 79 tonnes of this fish were seized and 92% of the non-compliant products came from Asia. By taking 45 samples from wholesalers and retailers across Belgium, AFSCA wanted to know the latest methods used by fraudsters to pass fresh tuna on to us. Two processes have been discovered, one of which we have never met before in Belgium: carbon monoxide smoking, a poison that masks the oxidation state of the fish, maintains its freshness and preserves the red colour of its flesh, which otherwise naturally browns. This subterfuge obviously does not prevent the degradation of the product and the consumer risks food poisoning. This is not the only fraud reported by the AFSCA. In 2014, it had been demonstrated by RTBF journalists that smoked salmon fillets were inflated with salt water and other harmful products to increase their volume by 10%. Minister, how do you intend to counter the latest processes used by tuna fraudsters, in particular carbon monoxide smoking, which is highly toxic to the consumer? Do you intend to increase the frequency of controls and to increase surveillance, particularly with regard to imports of Asian tuna? Will other operations be carried out in this area, for example, for salmon?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic504x.u65	Mr President, I planned to answer Mr Prévot's questions, but also those of Mrs Dierick. I therefore propose to reply to my two colleagues at the same time. Mr. Prévot, you're right. Carbon monoxide is not itself toxic to the consumer. It is the apparent freshness of tuna, as a result of its illegal treatment, that poses a problem. The deceived consumer could, in fact, eat damaged fish, which is particularly dangerous if eaten raw. As regards the special action "thon 2020", between September and December 2020, AFSCA collected 45 samples from retailers (fresh tuna, deep-frozen tuna) and wholesalers (frozen tuna) throughout Belgium. A total of 92 analyses were performed. This action has identified two types of illegal practice. It led to the seizure of 79 tonnes of tuna, as 92 per cent of non-compliant products had been imported from Asia. As regards deceptive practices and their control, by injecting nitrites, nitrates, dyes, using carbon monoxide to smoke the product, its oxidation state is masked. The fish then preserves its red flesh while it browns naturally. It also seems fresh, but apparently only, because subterfuges do not prevent the degradation of the product and the consumer risks food poisoning. Since these treatments are applied by operators based in third countries, the AFSCA does not have the possibility to monitor their practices prior to the importation of the products. Moreover, as fraudsters become more and more innovative, the AFSCA National Investigation Unit must act quickly when it comes to new fraud techniques. Continuous training of staff and investments in modern detection techniques are needed. The capture of fraud signals is very important in this fight. As regards the follow-up to the special action "thon 2020", in the face of challenging results, the AFSCA undertakes to continue its fight against tuna fraud around five concrete actions: 1. Include carbon monoxide in the AFSCA routine controls. This will be included in control plan 2021. 2. More control of imports of tuna from third countries. 3. Take a sample to perform analyses in case of suspicion. 4. Raising consumer awareness. 5. Cooperate with other Member States through the European Commission's Food Fraud Network (AAFC) and participate in international anti-fraud actions. For other fish, carbon monoxide gas is mainly used on tuna and swordfish in third countries. The salmon consumed in Belgium comes mainly from Europe and the latter refuses the use of this gas unlike other countries. To date, I have no indication that such treatments could be applied to salmon. As regards the other actions of the AFSCA, in addition to the special action "thon 2020", a large-scale action was organised by the EU in collaboration with the Department of Agriculture and Fisheries, the SPF Economy and the maritime police in the context of the illegal trade in fish. In addition, an additional action will be organised in 2021 in the fish sector where both imported and Belgian products will be targeted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic504x.u66	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed answer, thank you also for taking a snapshot of the situation of measures already taken and the measures that will have to be taken in the coming months. I am also pleased to hear that, following these 45 levies, the AFSCA was adapting or, in any case, committed to continuing and intensifying its control action, particularly in the context of Action Plan 2021. As far as the final part of my question is concerned, I understand that a large-scale operation has taken place in the context of the legal trade in fish and that further actions are planned in 2021. I think this is obviously in the right direction if we want to guarantee the food security of our chain.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic504x.u67	Minister, I found it strange that my colleague de Laveleye's question and my question were not linked. I have listened carefully to your answer to her question and I have two further questions. You said that we are in a preliminary phase, because there are still consultations to determine Belgium's position. Which stakeholders are involved? Is there going to be a parliamentary debate on this? If so, at what level? I didn't hear a detailed answer to that either. If you have prepared another answer, I am very curious to hear it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic504x.u68	Mrs Creemrs, it is indeed almost the same answer to your colleague's question. As regards the division of competence in relation to GMOs, as Minister for Agriculture, I share the responsibilities at federal level. It concerns, in particular, the spread in the environment of GMOs, whether for medical use or not, and GMOs for food use. The closed use of GMOs and the legislation on the co-existence rules of GMO crops are not within my competence, as these are regional powers. As regards the questionnaire from the European Commission, the FPS Public Health, Environment and Food Chain Safety, the Regions, the National Reference Laboratory, the Advisory Board on Biosafety and the Advisory Committee on Bioethics consulted. The Commission's questions on the new gene techniques relate to the implementation of GMO legislation, research and innovation, public dialogue, ethical considerations, opportunities and benefits, as well as the challenges and concerns of the competent authorities of the Member States. As far as your third question is concerned, it is still too early to foresee what the initiatives that will follow the European Commission's study will imply. Regarding the Belgian position, the technical preparation will take place in the CCMI GMO general debate, as well as together with Sciensano, the National Reference Lab and the Advisory Council on Biosafety. As regards cooperation with the Regions, in any case which also falls within the competence of the Regions, they are involved in the different procedures. They are an integral part of the new working group. As for your last question, the EU must draw a clear line in line with technological developments. As the study has shown, it is clear that a case-by-case assessment should be possible. These risk assessment requirements are closely linked to scientific progress.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic504x.u69	Thank you, Minister, for your reply, which contained a number of new elements. I note that it is too early to decide how the debate will be organised. I hope that there will be a broader debate than just with the stakeholders you have listed. Maybe I'm in a slightly different bubble from the colleagues, but I think this subject is very much alive. Of course, this is about scientific progress, but it is also about the reality of dependence, monopolies and biodiversity. Hopefully we can have a good debate on this, in which all points are weighed against each other in order to make a well-founded assessment. You will not be surprised that I want to be able to discuss on the basis of fair arguments about dependencies, monopoly positions and the consequences for small farmers. I am absolutely not opposed to scientific progress, but we need to discuss it on the basis of fair arguments. So to be continued, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic504x.u70	Minister, 2023 seems far ahead, but in the coming weeks and months, the preliminary draft National Action Plan for the reduction of pesticides 2023-2027 is already on your plate. After that, the public consultation will follow. We've discussed a lot of timelines today, but what's the timeline for the new NAPAN from 2023? Who's gonna be involved? What lessons will be drawn from the previous action plan? How do we deal with the from-boer-to-board strategy? What studies are currently under way on alternatives to pesticides? After all, when we discuss it, we always find that there are not enough research or alternatives. It's kind of the chicken or the egg.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic504x.u71	Mrs Creemers, in cooperation with the Minister for Health and the Environment, I follow closely the development of the National Plan of Action for the Reduction of Pesticides 2023-2026, providing for the objectives of the federal government. There are some important dates that mark the development of this new plan. In the first half of 2020, the Regions and the federal government drew up a programme schedule. The preliminary draft programme should be approved by the political authorities in autumn 2021 before a public consultation is launched at the beginning of 2022. In spring 2022, the preliminary draft programme shall be amended. Political approval will take place in the summer of 2022 and the Royal Decree will be finalised in the autumn. The NAPAN Board consists of 70 persons representing 26 stakeholders, 5 technical centres and all competent authorities. He meets on a quarterly basis to monitor and complete the ongoing projects. The programme proposal is based on the lessons learned from the progress of the current programme's projects, the interim report of which was published at the beginning of this year at Phytoweb.be. The draft also paid particular attention to the opportunities that could be offered by the European from-farmer-to-board strategy. The European negotiations on international commitments to reduce pesticides have not yet been concluded. Concrete actions are the subject of the NAPAN which is still under development. You will understand that I have to let the strategic committee do its job before I communicate on the planned actions. The search for alternative solutions for the use of pesticides is the responsibility of the regions. I therefore invite you to consult my regional colleagues on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic504x.u72	Thank you, Minister, for the detailed timeline. In this way we can come back to this at regular intervals. I fully understand that no concrete actions and studies have yet been undertaken on alternatives. It is a shared responsibility, together with the Länder. I will certainly have it checked in the Länder. We have talked on several occasions today about new action plans on pollinators and sustainable food production and development. There are opportunities everywhere to promote scientific research into alternatives. I encourage you to look at this as openly as possible, so that we do not always have to have the same discussion when there are sufficient arguments for banning a plant protection product, but too little research has been done into alternatives. I invite you to look for alternatives in all these plans with an open mind, because that is where the future lies.
