ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic469x.u1	Mr Minister, Apache's research and a report by RTBF show the way in which large factories for the production of frozen fries, croquettes and puree place all the risks on the grower, but at the same time cover themselves well against all kinds of unforeseen circumstances. Those big potato processors are putting forward contracts for potato growers where the latter get very little out of the cost and which will also be very expensive for them in the event of a disappointing harvest. When producers are unable to deliver the agreed volume, they usually have to make up for the shortfall at their own expense by buying potatoes themselves on the free market. Following that report, you asked the Belgian Competition Authority to examine the contracts concluded by the potato industry with the growers. You also asked to examine the pricing. In a press release, you say that the lack of balance between the rights and obligations of the parties to these agreements suggests that these could be unlawful terms and unfair commercial practices. Mr. Secretary, you've requested an investigation. Did you put a specific timing on that or is there a deadline on that? Is this kind of contract limited to the potato industry? Is working in the same way, for example, in the vegetable processing industry? According to Belpotato, all representatives of all actors in the chain are talking to each other in a working group. The FPS Economy would be willing to chair the working group. Can you confirm this? Have there been any meetings of that working group?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic469x.u2	Mrs Depraetere, the Belgian Competition Authority is an independent administrative body. As a result, I do not have the right to intervene in or control the organisation of the course and timing of the research requested. In the potato sector there are many wholesalers and more processing plants than in other sectors. As a result, the majority of growers supply at least two customers. Some growers do not want or cannot conclude contracts per parcel, the so-called hectare contracts. They can then conclude so-called kilo contracts. For example, they commit themselves to a production volume to a defined quality. The rest of their production will then be sold on the free market. There is no other production sector in which producers have to search for additional volumes on the free market, especially in the event of a severe drought as we saw in 2018. This requirement has a double impact on the grower: a decrease in turnover and an increase in costs. For processed vegetables, contracted productions generally refer to defined hectares for which the grower receives either a fixed price or a price per kilogram for a quality as defined in the contract. Producers supply their entire production to a single industry. As far as your last question is concerned, I can confirm the existence of a working group in which all the operators in the potato sector participate. This working group meets regularly to find constructive solutions that are useful for all actors in the sector. The working group is chaired by Etienne Verhaegen, a member of the Prize Observatory of the FPS Economy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic469x.u3	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You have clarified a number of things, but I understand that there is no concrete timetable for the examination of BMA or that you cannot impose that timetable. We shall certainly come back to it in this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic469x.u4	Mr President, Minister, in an article on 16 March last, the newspaper L-Echo drew attention to the distress situation in which artisanal breweries have been in since the closure of cafés and restaurants, in order to combat the spread of coronavirus in Belgium. Since they are a leading supplier of horeca, the fate of artisanal breweries is intimately linked to that of this sector. In order to establish this causal link between the suffering of the Horeca and the distress of the craft breweries, the newspaper uses the results of a report commissioned by the Belgian brewers' federation from the Graydon analysis office to measure the extent of the damage in their sector. In addition to the first observation, the Graydon report points out that craft breweries will need substantial financial assistance, estimated at EUR 30 million, to be able to revive their economic activity and recover from the crisis. Fifty of these companies are expected to take the lead and stop doing business, despite the fact that their financial situation was healthy and balanced before the crisis. Mr Minister, on the basis of this information, I would like to know what can be done in favour of this sector, which is generally well established and provides local jobs. These breweries often work in short circuit and have developed regional know-how. So, have you ever been able to contact their representatives? In what appropriate way could you help them, given their close relationship with the Horeca?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic469x.u5	Mr President, Mr Vanden Burre, I have indeed read the Graydon study and met with the brewers' federation. While before the crisis, 87.5% of them were in good financial health, 32% were on the brink of bankruptcy last March. Therefore, I am well aware of the situation of artisanal breweries, of which I have received several representatives from my firm. Sales in the shops unfortunately do not compensate for the losses caused by the stoppage of the Horeca and the event. In this regard, the recovery of the Horeca outside – which we were able to observe this weekend – is a first improvement. The date of the full reopening will be set tomorrow. As early as June, medium-sized events and festivals will resume with increasing capacity. Meanwhile, the entire Horeca chain is particularly vulnerable by closure measures and health constraints. The risk of insolvency or even bankruptcy of previously healthy companies is real. First of all, I would like to point out that it is up to the Regions to play their role of economic support in full regime for sectors so important to the economy and culture of the country. At the federal level, we have taken protective measures such as temporary corona unemployment or bridge law, but you are aware of that. More specifically, for the brewers sector, the Council of Ministers adopted this Friday a support measure which allows the refund of excise duties for beer which has become unsold due to the closure of the Horeca and the exceeding of the consumption deadline. Brewery in difficulty may also benefit from other less recent measures. In 2020, the brewers and suppliers of Horeca benefited from the ONSS exemption and the creation of the Transformation Fund, which will invest 750 million euros in the recovery and sustainable transition of our economy. In particular, the 500 million stimulus package will provide short-term support to companies to strengthen their creditworthiness. Until June 30, 2021, the company in difficulty due to the covid may apply to the FPS Finances for a payment plan, the interest exemption for late payment and the renunciation of fines. This possibility is valid under certain conditions, for corporate tax, business discount and VAT debts. In addition, the government is discussing the "back-up to re-employment" measure through an ONSS reduction in the third quarter of 2021 for employers who recover employees who are temporarily unemployed and/or hire new employees. This measure will apply to all sectors of activity and will be more important for companies that have been severely affected or have had to close due to health measures. In addition, on the proposal of the Minister of Finance, the Council of Ministers approved last Friday a draft royal decree aimed at extending the period of granting eligible credits for a state guarantee for certain loans to SMEs in the context of the crisis. Finally, support measures that directly benefit cafes, restaurants and events indirectly support brewers, preserving their solvency and thus also their ability to honour their debts to their suppliers. Mr President, I have been a little long, but I think it was worth it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic469x.u6	Minister, I ask you to pay attention to the work of the interpreters. Your rhythm is too strong.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic469x.u7	I'm so sorry!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic469x.u8	Minister, thank you for your detailed answer. The situation is such that it is important to sum up all the aid which has been made available and which will still be deployed in the coming weeks. At the level of the Ecolo-Groen Group, we are particularly mobilized on issues related to the support of our local economy, rooted in our home. The artisanal brewers are definitely part of it. As you said, they are directly affected by the closure of the Horeca. We hope that the coming weeks will allow the sector to redeploy and have real prospects. We will certainly come back to the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic469x.u9	Mrs Verhelst is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic469x.u10	Minister, we were just talking about purchasing contracts for potato growers, but they also exist in the catering industry. The catering sector accounts for more than 40,000 independent entrepreneurs and employs 120,000 people. It is therefore a very important sector for the Belgian economy, which has been severely affected by the health crisis in recent months. Fortunately, the terraces were reopened last weekend, even though there is still a long way to go. We need to look specifically at the brewery contracts. We tabled a legislative proposal on this subject and on 24 March there was a hearing on the subject in the Committee on Economic Affairs. Several speakers, including those from Horeca Vlaanderen, suggest that the mandatory reduction could continue during the period during which restrictions are imposed on catering operators. If only the terraces can be open, it is obvious that the operators will not always be able to fully meet the purchase obligation. Firstly, is enforcing the purchase obligations during the sanitary crisis abuse by brewers or drink dealers? Secondly, is there a contractual imbalance in the enforcement of obligations and the demand for reduction deficits? Thirdly, how can account be taken of the impact of the covid crisis and the restrictive measures on purchasing obligations? Finally, how can it be avoided that deficits are still claimed? I would have liked to have heard your views on this. Have you received any reports of this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic469x.u11	I will answer both Mrs Depreatere and Mrs Verhelst's questions. The Minister for Economic Affairs and I have asked the FPS Economy to put forward an evaluation method involving the signatories of the Code of Conduct. We indicated that we would like to finalise the evaluation in the course of 2021. The work of the FPS Economy is still ongoing; therefore, no official contact has been made with or recourse has been made to the signatories and representatives of the sectors. I will be able to give you my views on the problem as soon as I have the requested evaluation. It seems important to me to be able to base myself on objective data before I make a ruling. Mrs Muylle is the predecessor of Minister of Economy Dermagne. As far as I am concerned, I gave you an opinion on the bill at the end of March 2021 at the request of the Committee on Economic Affairs. That advice was not favourable and that has not changed in the meantime. Unfortunately, the whole sector is suffering: not only the cafés and restaurants have been affected, but also the suppliers. This is perfectly illustrated by Mr Vanden Burre's question, which is on the agenda today. The hospitality industry is currently facing an unprecedented crisis. The public authorities must take measures to re-launch the confidence-building activities with a view to reopening the restaurants and cafés. The measure cited does not address the main concerns of the sector. It could undermine a positive economic dynamic necessary for the profitability of catering and their drink suppliers. I would remind you that a conciliation committee was set up to apply the code of conduct between partners in case of dispute. There is no need to hesitate to call on it to settle disputes. Looks like there's not enough use of it. The evaluation must demonstrate the cause and how we can improve the mechanism. As far as your fourth question is concerned, new catering operators must be able to count on the expertise of their federation. It must inform them of all existing rules. The evaluation could include a section on the promotion of the Code of Conduct by the industry itself. New entrepreneurs should turn to their federation for useful information for the exercise of their profession. As far as your fifth question is concerned, I mentioned in my opinion the need to analyse the competence of the federal government to deal with the issue. Indeed, the Special Law of 6 January 2014 on the Sixth State Reform has regionalised the legislative power with regard to the commercial leases and leases. As far as the clause mentioned in Bill No. 1458 regulates a very specific commercial lease agreement, i.e. a commercial lease contract involving a purchase obligation for the tenant, raises the question of jurisdiction. Moreover, the opinions of the Regions are in the same direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic469x.u12	Minister, I understand that you have answered the two questions, but it is important to make a distinction, because they had a different approach. My colleague had a question about the evaluation of the code of conduct. In the meantime, I understand from Minister Dermagne that it is coming, so of course you are waiting to take a position on this. My concern, however, is specifically about the problems that will arise now, because the catering operators may still be faced with purchasing obligations, as they were originally included in a contract, while there are still restrictive measures in place. The Catering Federations, to which you refer, have already mentioned this as a problem. So that's not where the solution is. We must not ignore this concern in these times. Many breweries and traders handle everything very correctly with great respect for the difficulties in the various sectors. Nevertheless, a number of examples have been pointed out to me where this is not the case. The issue has a considerable impact on operators, who are already having a very difficult time. In any case, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic469x.u13	Minister, the decision adopted at the Consultation Committee on March 24th made it a condition for the maintenance of so-called non-essential businesses to have an appointment system and a maximum customer base of 50 people. In the meantime, these businesses have been able to reopen without these constraints, but the question of the balance sheet of these measures remains. Comeos, the trade and services federation, recorded a decrease in turnover from 60 to 85 % on Saturday, March 27 – the date of entry into force of the measures – compared to a traditional shopping day. Comeos estimates that these measures will cost EUR 1 billion in turnover losses. Given these constraints and the potential loss of turnover, many businesses had preferred to remain closed. Minister, have you been working with the trade federations before adopting these measures at the Consultation Committee on March 24th? If so, what were their views on the subject? What were the alternatives on the table? Have you analysed the situation observed by traders during the implementation of these measures? What conclusions do you draw today? Could this measure be reactivated in the event of a return from a bad epidemiological situation? Have these businesses applied for bridge law? If so, in what proportion? What is the proportion of traders who have worked at a loss or who have suspended their activity? Have you been working with the Minister of Employment on the impact these measures have had on the employees of the businesses concerned? What did you respond to Comeos' requests to provide for an exemption from ONSS contributions for the second quarter as well as a contribution to the fixed costs of all traders?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic469x.u14	Mrs Rohonyi, since the appointment arrangement was lifted a month after it was put in place, I am not going to comment on it in detail. This, however, helped to avoid a total closure for shops, which could continue by appointment. I am aware that for more than a year there have been serious constraints on the trade sector. This is why the government has granted a double bridge for businesses that are required to close. This double bridge was also granted to traders for whom the appointment opening was considered too complex. As for those who were able to open by appointment, they benefited from the simple bridge right in the event of a loss of turnover of more than 40% compared to the reference period in 2019. As far as ONSS is concerned, the government has decided that a flat-rate reduction would take place in the third quarter of this year for employers who recover temporary unemployed employees and/or hire additional employees. This reduction will apply to a maximum of five employees per establishment unit. It will also cover all sectors of activity and, of course, trade. Moreover, it will be more important for companies that have suffered a serious impact or that have had to close due to health measures, but can reopen today. You added a question about whether it is still possible to go back. It can never be ruled out that an upsurge in the epidemic leads us to resume action, but we all hope, of course, that we will no longer have to take such action in the months and years to come.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic469x.u15	Minister, thank you for your answers. I regret that I did not obtain figures for the independents who requested the simple or double right bridge. I understand that those who were under the conditions could have asked for it, but it would have been interesting to see to what extent this was done, and therefore to what extent these independents suffered the impact of this health measure. Fortunately, it was a short-term measure. Fortunately, too, you are announcing that the economic support measures were in place, including the ONSS reduction for the third quarter; I am very pleased with that. It is fundamental to help these traders, especially those who are faced with the payment of fixed costs, and among them, rent, which can be very high in some streets and shopping areas. I believe, however, that the lessons should be drawn from this measure, particularly with regard to consultation with the sector. There, too, I did not get an answer to that question. For the rest, you tell us that nothing prevents us from a future bad epidemiological situation, which would force us to return to this health measure. I think it is more than time, therefore, to look at the devices for surface decontamination, air purification, etc., which would allow us to avoid taking over a measure which was very restrictive and very handicaping for all these traders. The Brussels Region is committed to indemnifying traders and restorers who invest in these devices. I believe that the federal government must follow, in particular by making sure that it no longer reaches such a binding and disadvantageous measure for the sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic469x.u16	Minister, the clothing and footwear sector has been hit very hard by the corona crisis. The shops were closed twice in 2020 due to the measures imposed by the government. They are a very specific sector. Collections often need to be purchased in advance for more than a year. Moreover, they often have to pay a very large advance for the collections, long before the delivery of the items. Compared to other businesses which have to be closed, they usually also have a much larger stock. In most cases, canceling collections is not possible. Moreover, the closure imposed resulted in significantly lower sales and even sales during the solder period were very weak last year and this year. Businesses do not even get rid of their stock with very heavy discounts. Also by banning communion and spring parties, a very lucrative sales period has been lost for them. In November, early December, the new collection for the communion and spring parties will normally be delivered. In normal circumstances, most shops sell half of their party collection already in December. Unfortunately, this sale also stopped last year, because they did not know whether communion and spring parties could continue in the month of May 2021. The water doesn't even stand in the way of retailing anymore. It's much worse. The bailiffs run down the doors of these retailers. Most traders have the accumulated financial reserve. This is terrible, because we will only see the Zalandos or the Primarks survive. That can't be the intention. I do not think I should convince you of the importance of our retail trade as a fundamental part of our society. Minister, are you aware of the very precarious situation in this sector? Do you have any contacts with the Federation to discuss these problems? What measures will you take to address the problems facing this sector?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic469x.u17	Mrs Samyn, I am aware of the difficulties the retailers in the clothing sector have been facing for many months. Despite the fact that they were only closed for a short period of time during the second lockdown from 1 November to 1 December, they are still subject to exceptional measures: the obligation of customers to shop only with a mouth mask, no attractiveness of the store and city centers, a limited number of customers per square meter and customers who are increasingly used to making their purchases online. As far as my contact with the sector federations is concerned, through UNIZO, I was in contact with the Fashion Union. Interprofessional Federations, such as SNI, NSZ and UCM, also regularly report the difficulties of retailing in the fashion sector. It is particularly to their question that the period of winter solders was extended by 15 days in February. In this respect, Comeos reported a decrease in turnover in this sector between 25% and 35% in relation to the winter solders of 2020. As regards the aid measures for this sector, the economic context remains difficult, as identified by ERMG in its survey, the results of which were published on 16 February 2021. The self-employed and the smallest enterprises continue to suffer most from the corona crisis. As the Council of Ministers was aware of this situation, it decided on 5 February to extend 27 measures until the end of June 2021. This corresponds to EUR 2 billion of additional support to businesses and self-employed persons, including by postponing payment of taxes, tax exemptions, the crisis bridging measure, the extension of temporary unemployment and moratoria on loans. Aid was also provided for the workers and the most vulnerable, including by reducing the farm levy and a premium for the beneficiaries of the living wage and the elderly. Double bridging rights are retained until the end of June for closed sectors, which is not the case for fashion retailers. They can enjoy a bridging right to support the restart. It allows to ensure a minimum income for self-employed persons who are faced with a reduction in turnover of at least 40%. This scheme will remain in force until at least the end of June 2021. In addition, the flat-rate RSZ reduction will be introduced in the third quarter of 2021 for employers recovering workers placed on temporary unemployment and/or recruiting additional workers. The reduction will apply to a maximum of five employees per establishment unit. This measure will apply to all sectors of activity. He wants to boost employment in the context of the programmed reopenings. This RSZ reduction will be modulated. It will be higher for the companies that were hit harder or had to close the doors by the sanitary measures taken in the framework of the management of COVID-19, and which can reopen today. Additional measures were also taken. I've repeated it a few times. If that's what you want, I can give you a written list.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic469x.u18	Minister, our group has been calling for attention for some time to be paid to forgotten sectors in order to develop a more differentiated aid package for these sectors. We understand that, shortly after the outbreak of this crisis, there was no time to take tailor-made measures, but we are now more than a year further. Some self-employed people are largely compensated, others are far too little. It is, of course, a good thing that the specific measures you have just listed have been extended. The payment of taxes is deferred, but ultimately they have to be paid. I think it's very difficult for a lot of things. The specific measures are, of course, good, but some things will be very difficult to do with payments, whether they should be made now or whether they should be postponed. In our opinion, it is advisable to make an inventory of these forgotten sectors. This makes it possible to look at what can be done specifically. Perhaps very targeted support measures are possible. I refer to a letter from a few days ago, a cry from the Federation of Textile Workers. I assume you read that letter, too. Companies in this sector usually have heavy investments due to their machinery and they also pay a lot for water treatment. You should not forget such small sub-sectors. We therefore call for such sectors to be listed and supported.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic469x.u19	Minister, a few weeks ago, the federal government announced the decriminalisation of sex work through an adaptation of the Criminal Code, which we very much welcome. I started with a round of questions to the various members of the government. Last week, I asked Minister Vandenbroucke a question similar to that which I am now asking you. He said that it would now be possible to provide social protection on the basis of real activities, including those that remain under the radar today, who are neither employed nor self-employed. He stressed the importance of allowing sex workers to participate fully in the social security system, either as an employee or as a self-employed person. In his view, this does not, in principle, require changes in social security legislation. I quote him: 'The idea that we should go a priori to a specific statute in terms of social protection is wrong. We must ensure that these people can do work that is not done in black and that is recognised as effective. It is indeed necessary to verify whether this fits in with the various chambers of social security." I would like to put my finger on the consequences within your powers of this announced decriminalisation. Do you share the vision of Minister Vandenbroucke? What will you do to improve social protection in respect of the rights and obligations of sex workers, if they may be more affected by decriminalisation than before by the status of self-employed persons? What further steps do you intend to take? What rules should be adapted for this purpose? On what time? What is the impact on your services? Will your services be ready with everything at the time of the entry into force of the announced amendment of the Criminal Code? Finally, will you talk to your Brussels and Walloon colleagues about the condition that they have a higher degree or a degree in business management? What further action will you take on this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic469x.u20	Mr Segers, I share the view that sex workers should be able to earn their living freely and with dignity. That is also the will of the government and of my colleagues. It is possible through the exercise of the profession as a self-employed person. Today, any sex worker can become self-employed, pay contributions and receive social coverage on that basis. As Minister for Self-employed and SMEs, I should not take special initiatives within my powers. This is an issue that I have already discussed with the representatives of UTSOPI, whom I have received in the context of the covid crisis. Finally, I personally support the creation of a new specific NACE code for sex workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic469x.u21	Mr President, Minister, my question was first and foremost an informative one. After all, I am delighted about the imminent decriminalisation, but I would also like us to seize every opportunity to eliminate the existing ambiguity as far as possible, so that we can work towards the optimum protection of sex workers. Sex workers deserve that, they deserve more clarity about social protection. Moreover, the greater the clarity, the better we can fight against excesses. Of course sex work should be an ordinary economic activity. Once this decriminalisation is done, we must be able to take stricter action against excesses, against forced prostitution, against economic exploitation and so on. If we manage to clarify those regular economic activities of sex workers, we will also be better able to act effectively against those excesses. I will certainly come back to this and wish you every success in the meantime.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic469x.u22	Minister, in mid-April 2021, the hospitality operators in our country received the redeeming news that they would be allowed to open their terraces from 8 May 2021, so last weekend. However, only five days before rebooting the protocols were communicated. Besides, they weren't official. Even 24 hours before the restart, there was no ministerial decision on the table, let alone published in the Belgian Official Journal. Officially, the catering industry did not know one day before the start-up whether they were allowed to open and under what conditions. That is richly late, of course, because after six months of forced closure, the catering industry needs sufficient preparation time to get everything back on track. There's more. Just 24 hours before the start-up of the terraces, the GEES suddenly returned to the measure he had communicated on Monday, namely that the catering industry should be allowed to place plexi walls. According to the Consultative Committee, that was not true and so the measure had to be withdrawn again, with all the consequences for the catering industry, which had set itself on the plexi walls. Several cases were suddenly able to set fewer tables and therefore needed fewer staff. They even called it a disgrace that they could only hear the news one day before the reopening. I think that is absolutely understandable. After all, how can cafés and restaurants prepare themselves if they do not know what measures they must comply with? The N-VA had already expressed its concerns about the late adoption of the protocols six days before the start-up and had asked the authorities concerned for more clarity. The whole story certainly confirms to me the great flexibility that the catering industry has had to show since the start of the corona pandemic. I therefore hope that the government will learn from its mistakes and adopt protocols more quickly in the future, so that the catering industry can better prepare itself. In view of the full reopening of the catering industry, you already have the opportunity to correct that mistake. Minister, do you understand the frustrations of the catering sector? Couldn't the government have done more to speed up the protocols? How did the misunderstanding about the plexi walls arise? What is the state of play on the plexi walls? Had there not been better communication with the Consultative Committee, so that the ban on plexi walls could have been communicated on Monday? Are you looking ahead to the reopening of the interiors of the catering industry? In order to avoid similar problems in the future, the government could already establish protocols for that phase, giving the hospitality issue sufficient time to prepare itself better. Do you have any plans in that direction?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic469x.u23	Mrs Houtmeyers, I partly understand the frustrations of the catering sector. However, I would like to make a few nuances. As regards the general conditions for the reopening, the protocol for the reopening of the catering industry was discussed several weeks in the Coronac Commissariat with the representatives of the sector. Since early 2021, the Consultation Committee has specified that the 2020 Protocols would serve as a basis for the re-opening in 2021, albeit with a number of enhanced conditions, including those related to ventilation, which is central to this issue. The protocol for reopening outside was finalised before the meeting of the Consultation Committee on 23 April, but a decision had yet to be taken on some points. It was about the definition of what an open terrace is, the number of people at the table, the closing hour and the permission to serve alcohol, while there was a general ban on selling it from 20 hours. During the work of the coronac committee involving my cabinet and that of the Minister for Economic Affairs, the use of plexi walls has never been referred to as problematic. On the contrary, the Coronac Commissioner had several comments on the draft protocol. One of these comments concerned the level of the plexi walls, which had not been specified. It was asked to determine the altitude at 1.8 meters, which was also included in the protocol. Subsequently, on 23 April, the Consultation Committee laid down the minimum conditions for the reopening of the terraces. I would like to repeat the main ones: only the opening of the terraces, a distance of 1.5 metres between the tables, a maximum of 4 persons per table, the obligation to remain seated, the wearing of a mask by the staff. The notification of the Consultation Committee did not specify whether or not plexiwalls were allowed when the distance of 1.5 metres could not be respected, and for that reason, because this issue was not discussed in the Consultation Committee. The amendment of the Ministerial Decision, which translates the decisions of the Consultation Committee, was then launched. The question of the plexiwallen was asked because Article 6 of the Ministerial Decree provides for plexiwallen inside, where catering is allowed, such as social canteens or business canteens. My cabinet then asked the Home Secretary's cabinet if the plexi walls could remain in the protocol. A question to that effect was sent by e-mail on Friday 23 April at the end of the day. Last Tuesday, together with Minister Dermagne's cabinet, it was decided to approve the protocol, subject to the adjustments of the ministerial decision. The Council of State delivered its opinion on Friday 7 May, which had been requested at high speed. In the meantime, the Coronac Commissariat had asked us about the fact that the protocol allowed plexiglass walls. The issue was discussed at the core and the majority of the government decided to stick to the notification of 23 April and not to allow the plexiglass walls if the distance of one and a half metres cannot be respected. Like you, I regret the unpleasant surprise for traders who were right to think that the plexiglass walls could still be used.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic469x.u24	Mr Minister, it is of course a very unfortunate matter. You're talking about April 23rd, which is now two weeks ago. So everything could have been just perfect. There shouldn't have been such a thing, the uncertainty for the catering industry shouldn't have been there either. I can only stress once again that I hope that this will be learned with a view to reopening the interior spaces and that those protocols will already be established. I think they can be determined even now. We do not therefore need to know the date of the reopening, but the measures can be laid down perfectly now, so that the catering industry knows where it stands when it is allowed to open the indoor spaces.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic469x.u25	Debates of the European Parliament 55015201C, by Mrs Reuter, Question No 5, by Mr Robles Piquer, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, to the Council (Doc. 55015836C) by Mrs Jadin and put to the vote 55016669C by Mrs Reuter and 55017449C by Mrs Verhelst.
