ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic537x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, I shall first give the floor to the Minister for Defence for the opening of the exchange of views.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic537x.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am coming back to you in accordance with the working method decided last May. Meanwhile, Jürgen Conings was found dead on Sunday 20 June. According to the forensic study carried out at the request of the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office, the cause of death is suicide. No one wanted such a outcome. We all wanted him to surrender or be found alive. In parallel with the report of the General Inspectorate of Defence, on May 25, 2021, I had before the Standing Committee R an investigation. At my express request, the purpose of the monitoring investigation into the detection and monitoring of the radicalisation of Jürgen Conings by the two intelligence services was to verify specifically the reliability of information relating to persons suspected of radicalism within the Defence. After consulting the Chairman of Standing Committee R, you were given access to the report under conditions that would ensure that the necessary confidentiality was respected in this matter, while allowing for a transparent public debate, as I had committed myself to it. The purpose of the day, however, is not to make a detailed analysis of the report. This is the role of the accompanying committee which was held earlier. This session therefore focuses on the conclusions and factual aspects relevant to the issues we have addressed in the Defence Committee in recent weeks. My intervention will therefore also focus on the plan of action that we have decided to put in place to avoid as much as possible the recurrence of events such as this one in the future. It is important to note that judicial investigations are still under way. In this context, some findings could still be reviewed according to the results provided by the investigators. I will also answer the attached questions that have been put on the agenda of this exchange of views. Before we begin, there is still a preliminary point to be addressed. Like you, I read in the press that the report, or at least the conclusions of the report of Standing Committee R, had been transmitted to journalists. I obviously regret this type of leak, which does not correspond to the working method decided together. They undermine trust between the institutions and make it difficult – at least we can say – to work calmly in this committee. This is not the first time this has happened, and I regret it as you do. When the Inspector General's report was echoed in the press, I had questioned our Chief of Defence about possible leaks. After an analysis and in view of the limited number of recipients who had received the existing computer security report and the material actually published, he was of the opinion that journalists did not have the report and had only obtained certain conclusions. The report of Committee R, which you read this morning in camera, is a good report. I thank the committee and its investigative department for that. The conclusions of this report can be summarized as follows: certain errors, sometimes ad hoc – such as the absence at a meeting that later proved important – and sometimes structural – such as the lack of priority given to the follow-up of the far right – were committed within the SGRS and the rest of the Defence. The shortage of personnel is pointed out, such as the rotation of military personnel, the loss of experience or expertise, the lack of a culture of preserving knowledge and experience, a failure of flow and exchange of information within and outside Defence, a structure of the SRMS set up in January 2020 deemed too complex by staff. Overall, the information may be considered to have not been circulated and has not been adequately processed. Thus, at several times, links between key information should have been established and more decisive steps could have been taken to remove Conings from his role in the Defence. In this regard, the report of the R Committee adds new elements to the chronology of the facts and events already known. Among the highlights that are revealed in the report, I note this. First, the report states that a number of police information on Jürgen Conings was available to the SGRS without any impact on the renewal of its security clearance in 2010. This element illustrates the different approaches that exist in the way authorities deal with security clearances. This calls for a concrete, concerted policy response and probably action on this subject to harmonize approaches between different services. I will discuss this with my colleagues in the National Security Council. Then it is learned that in recent years Jürgen Conings has attracted the attention of several services, notably for his proximity to extreme right groups without the Defence or the SGRS being informed, while his military status is identified. At the time, this information was not immediately shared but eventually emerged much later, in 2020, in the context of threats against Marc Van Ranst. From the summer of 2020, it seems obvious that Jürgen Conings represents a threat justifying its follow-up by all security services as well as its inclusion as a potentially violent extremist in the common database managed by the OCAM. In the following months, several actions will be undertaken by the SGRS such as the withdrawal of authorisation in August 2020, the start of an operation in February 2021 and the taking of follow-up measures without all of these initiatives necessarily being coordinated both internally within the service and with the partner services which are nevertheless mobilised and which even directly request the SGRS. At the same time, other obvious shortcomings are pointed out by the report, such as the lack of communication or cross-checking of essential information regarding Conings' alleged intentions, the lack of awareness by the SGRS of the classification at level 3 of the OCAM, the partial and insufficient exploitation of important information from partner services and their in-house misdistribution, the failure to process certain information from other services or the lack of essential information from the military hierarchy. While the profile of Conings is considered by the SMS to be of concern to the extent that an operation is initiated, the assessment of its danger does not appear to be given sufficient priority than to implement specific intelligence methods. Finally, the report confirms, as I have already informed you from the beginning of this case, that I was not informed of the specific follow-up of Conings, let alone of its inclusion in the common data bank. The report refers to a briefing on operations. In fact, this briefing focused on the methods used in the operations and not on the specific details of the ongoing operations. All these shortcomings illustrate serious dysfunctions at several levels of service. It must be noted that the processing of the information has failed. I believe that this situation is clearly not acceptable. For this reason, I have decided to act decisively with a multi-step action plan for the SMS. In the past, several reports and audits of the Standing Committee R had identified operational issues within the SMS. Despite the measures already taken, it is clear that the functioning of the service still needs to be improved. Some of the most important conclusions and recommendations of the report require an in-depth review that we have already begun and will continue in the coming months. Let us be clear: the implementation of the recommendations of the Standing Committee report is an integral part of the action plan to which I referred earlier. There is a lot of work on the shelf. There is no way I can respond to all the recommendations. However, I would like to clarify some of them. The ADIV has been operating for too long without a policy plan indicating what the service is doing. There are no clear priorities, with the result that every effort is made to do everything without the service always having the necessary resources to do so. The lack of staff within the extreme right-wing team is an example of this. The ADIV will therefore immediately start work to draw up a policy plan. That plan should be ready by the end of 2021 and will initially set priorities for the year 2022. The plan will determine, on the basis of the legal powers, the priority tasks to be undertaken in the field of themes and phenomena. Improving the organizational culture, quality of research and HR management will also be central. A major challenge will therefore be to review the organizational culture. This first plan will need to identify priorities and provide the necessary resources to ensure that missions are properly accomplished. It will have to look at all the leads, including whether it should be concluded that the statutory missions of the SGRS or the interpretation thereof are no longer appropriate. In 2022, the service will then begin to draw up a multi-annual policy plan. This step-by-step approach ensures short-term operational continuity while at the same time defining medium-term priorities. The CHOD has now announced that the ADIV will be allocated more staff, which is a step in the right direction. The policy plan will be linked to a staff plan and a workload measurement, allowing the new staff to be deployed in a coordinated manner for the priorities chosen. For example, it will be clear where there is an absolute need to strengthen the service, first and foremost for a number of essential functions to be identified. More staff alone isn't enough. The general staff will also provide a solution to my question to reduce the too frequent rotation of military personnel at the ADIV. The continuous coming and going of new employees is detrimental to building up the necessary expertise. This is particularly true of the management of the service, which has changed too often in recent years. All this is in line with my commitment to developing a specific intelligence career at the Department of Defense. In a constantly changing world, the role of intelligence services is essential to ensuring the security of the country and military operations. Experience, rigor, precision, sense of responsibility are all professional qualities necessary for an efficient military intelligence service. In this context, intelligence personnel must have specific career paths within Defence that allow them to evolve and gain experience that can benefit the service in the long term. This competency and knowledge management system, adapted to the intelligence world, is designed to enhance the experience, leadership, and promotion of an intelligence community within Defence, which will eventually be expanded with the unique status being developed. These findings have been made for too long without lasting solutions for both military and civilian personnel. On this point, too, I have asked for solutions from the defence staff. At the same time as the policy plan, I want the organisational structure of the ADIV to be aligned with the priorities chosen. The survey carried out by the Inspector-General and the Standing Committee I shows that the current structure is too complex and too cumbersome. That is a risk for the smooth exchange of information within the service, but also within the Defense Department and the security partners. There's gotta be another way. In addition to the structure itself, the place of the ADIV as staff department ACOS IS is reviewed within the structure of Defence. As part of the already planned re-engineering of the staff, I will be careful to ensure that the resources, personnel and infrastructure of the SMS are given the priority they deserve. In other words, I will pay a great deal of attention to making the relationship between the SSRS as a Department of Staff under the authority of the CHOD and as an intelligence unit under civilian authority more readable and making clear choices as to the allocation of resources in relation to the priorities identified. The ADIV will actively seek synergies. If there are areas where the service does not have sufficient resources to perform its tasks properly, it is its responsibility to cooperate with the security partners. These synergies will be sought within the activities developed by the ADIV in Belgium, for example in the field of extremism or espionage. In this context, I can inform you that the first National Strategic Intelligence Plan with the VSSE is currently being evaluated with a view to drawing up a second version. Finally, the previous reports of the Standing Committee I indicate that there is a major problem with data management within the ADIV. The process of developing a new IT infrastructure within the ADIV has already started. At my request, this project will be speeded up from now on. For the rest, here is how the action plan I have already outlined to you in part is articulated. With regard to verification and security clearances, In the context of enhancing internal security, the application of security verification will be extended to both the civilian and military personnel of Defence. At present, only candidate soldiers are subject to security verification before entering the army. In the future, civilian personnel working within the Defense Department will also be subject to security verification. In addition, we want to carry out these checks on a regular basis for both the civilian and military personnel of Defence. Consultations were held with trade unions on the measures to be taken when such an audit led to the delivery of a negative safety notice. I also want to take this opportunity to clarify the procedure for the line line and HRB to react when a security investigation leads to the withdrawal of a security clearance. These legislative amendments will be submitted to Parliament by the end of the year. With regard to disciplines and links with the judiciary, the Disciplinary Rules are being revised. My intention is to modernize it and include a preventive approach as well as leadership arrangements. The ultimate objective is to propose a range of proportionate and gradual measures that allow for progressive action in the light of particular cases and circumstances, without necessarily having to lead to the adoption of statutory measures or sanctions. This modernization of the disciplinary regulation is a process that requires time for social consultation but also for the quality of the result. The link between judicial and disciplinary proceedings will also be improved by clear lines of communication of cases between the Public Prosecutor's Office, the DGHR and the Chiefs of Staff. Guidelines will be planned and communicated next fall. The Chiefs of Staff will be made more aware of this procedure and of the complementarity of judicial and disciplinary responses to behavioural problems. Indeed, on this point, there is sometimes confusion, as some feel that when judicial proceedings are under way, nothing can be done at the level of follow-up both at the disciplinary level and at the level of the SGRS. As far as standards and values are concerned, substantial work is being done on this aspect and the approach is multifaceted: the development of a policy to prevent and combat extremism and racism, the improvement of the training of our military personnel, and the emphasis on raising awareness in concrete cases of what is involved in the quality of the military. Particular emphasis will be placed on what is so bad for extremists: the principle of non-discrimination. With respect to the assessment of the mechanisms for detecting deviations from Defence standards and values, I would like to have a clearer idea of the mechanisms that exist, their application and possible ways of improving them. As for the revision and updating of the guidelines on the use of social networks and freedom of expression, the guidelines must clarify the red lines that cannot be crossed by military and civilians in order to respect their duty of reserve and loyalty. In particular, the strengthening of integrity policy is aimed at the continuous promotion of knowledge and application of the framework of Defence values, the detection of non-compatible conduct as a member of the military or as a member of the Defence staff, and the appropriate correction of unethical behaviour through structural or individual measures. On the psychosocial monitoring of staff, I would like to see different actions taken. First, the conduct of a study on the reasons that may lead an individual to develop extremist behaviour in the context of defence and an inventory of existing preventive and reactive measures. On this basis, I call for an action plan to be carried out in order to optimize existing measures, to continue and speed up ongoing projects, to follow up on House resolution 54/2902, which calls for a genuine psychosocial follow-up both before, during and after their missions and by personnel outside operations. With regard to the control of arms and ammunition stores, I would like to take the following steps, which we have already announced. A security clearance will be imposed for access to the weapons warehouse and/or ammunition depot. This will be done in the context of the review of the IF5 in 2022. There will be verification of the arms and ammunition management rules in Ilias and integration of the different rules and controls into the system. There will also be a maximum separation of functions giving access to weapons and ammunition. I come to the problem of small independent units. I have asked the CHOD to make a list of the smaller units in defence and per unit to analyze or change what the unit depends on. With regard to the predeployment cell, DGHR and the Earth component are currently studying its place within the organizational chart. I have asked that this aspect be studied in order to incorporate better means of control. Let me turn to the answers to the questions. With regard to Jürgen Conings and the follow-up of some military personnel, this is what I can tell you. The ADIV will continue to closely monitor the profile of soldiers showing signs of extremist behaviour. This will, of course, be done with respect for privacy and the right to freedom of expression, both essential principles in our rule of law. The debate on possible sanctions against such soldiers, other than criminal offences that may be prosecuted by the prosecution, is also a question of fair balance. This will be examined on a case-by-case basis on the facts and actions of the parties concerned, on the one hand, and the military processes and regulations which allow appropriate disciplinary sanctions, on the other hand, of course again with respect for the rights of the parties concerned. I want this to be clearly expressed and heard in order to avoid leaving room for misconceptions that I have heard in recent weeks on this subject. The current specific criteria for listing a person are classified. If made public, they would enable a person to remain easily under the radar and remain unknown to the security services. There is currently a procedure for the withdrawal or refusal of a request for security clearance in respect of a dozen or so persons. These people have the opportunity to appeal. The ADIV does not indicate sympathizers with Mr Conings. The investigation is still in the hands of the public prosecutor with the support of the security and intelligence services. As for the details requested on the circumstances of the death of Jürgen Conings, no further details can be given since the judicial investigation is still under way. With regard to research, the specialized police teams did everything in their power to find Jürgen Conings as quickly as possible. The deployment of the Defence in support of the police lasted until 21 June 2021. For Defence, the total cost of this commitment is €867,045. This includes all allowances and allowances for deployed personnel, food for the deployed personnel, vehicle operating costs and the cost of flying hours for the NH90 engagement. These costs are covered by the Defence. With regard to psychosocial support, a distinction is made between the prevention of psychosocial risks – a responsibility of DG Health and Welfare – and the psychological care of Defence personnel – which belongs to the field of the Medical Component and which can be carried out by general practitioners or by the Mental Health Centre (MSC) of the Military Hospital. In case of acute problems, the MSC can provide immediate assistance. In other cases, people get a first appointment in the week. In some neighbourhoods, a CSM psychologist is available on certain days for consultations. In Defence, psychological assistance is free of charge and is provided during hours of service. If military personnel experience psychological problems during operations, the psychosocial, moral and religious aid workers on the ground will be called upon. During the assignment, the detachment commander may also call on a prevention counsellor for psychosocial aspects in the event of a problematic work-related situation. If the problems cannot be solved on the spot, a study will be carried out in collaboration with the doctor present to start a repatriation for psychological reasons. On returning to Belgium, the repatriated military must come to the Centre for Mental Health Care for an intake interview. In consultation with the military, further psychological guidance will be initiated or not. Identifying psychosocial needs before, during and after missions remains a difficult issue. Any soldier can go to the Centre for Mental Health for psychological guidance on a voluntary basis both before and after a mission and for both short and long term. The Center for Mental Health has no waiting lists. After leaving the Defence, if requested and under certain conditions, they may continue this treatment. Former military personnel with a recognized psychological disability, such as post-traumatic stress disorder following an incident during an operation abroad, can always contact the mental health centre or be referred to the civilian sector. Former military personnel suffering from this disorder are almost exclusively treated at the mental health centre. The Centre for Mental Health dealt with 1,095 military in 2020, representing 8.458 consultations. 2.076 consultations were conducted by a physician psychiatrist and 6.382 by clinical psychologists or psychiatric nurses. In 2020, 30 soldiers and 3 candidate soldiers were definitively declared unfit due to psychological problems. Four soldiers were placed on temporary retirement. The following adjustments to psychosocial support at work are planned. A communication plan aimed at staff will be launched with the focus on the support that a prevention advisor can provide psychosocial aspects and/or a nurse. Legislation should be transposed into new internal directives explaining the management of psychosocial risks at work. Mr President, here are the conclusions and answers that can be given for the time being on the basis of the internal and external investigation reports that I had requested as soon as the Conings case broke out. As I was able to explain, I am not limited to the findings, but I have set out a series of initiatives that I intend to take decisively and decisively to take the necessary corrective action. The Conings case highlighted a number of internal flaws within Defence and the SGRS. Some issues specific to the SRMS were already identified, including several audits conducted by the R Committee in recent years. It is clear that in the coming weeks, I will take initiatives to review the operation of the service. I cannot finish my speech without once again expressing my gratitude to the women and men of the Defence who had to go through this storm by continuing their work despite the doubts and criticisms addressed to the department. When I took over as head of the department on October 1st, I knew that the challenges were great and I remain determined to meet them today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic537x.u3	Mr President, I would like to thank you for the transparency you have been trying to give in the debate on the Conings case. That wasn't obvious. It was a bit of pushing and pulling at certain times, but I really appreciate that this is how the Chamber worked. Last time, the Minister received a wise lesson in parliamentary democracy and its functioning by first giving access to the report and then waiting for the discussion of the Chamber. We have now had access to it and then discussed it, as it should be. Then I will be the first to thank the Minister, but also certainly the chairman of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities for their good work. That's the way it's supposed to be, and that's all we ask. We do not ask for flowers to be thrown over majority and opposition. We are simply asking for the proper functioning of parliamentary democracy. Then we can do our job and you can do your job. Then hopefully we can work towards a better and stronger defense in the future. That is what drives us all. Mr President, you know that this morning I officially expressed my absolute dissatisfaction with the way in which confidential information is handled in this parliamentary assembly. I'm being nailed to the brink for a futility, a bagatel. Later it became clear that there was no diplomatic problem with the French at all. That was the reason to demand that I be called on the mat and that turned out not even to be right. There's never been anything wrong with the French about Barkhane. In fact, this operation is being shut down and is becoming a European mission, as I predicted more than a year ago. I can only observe that there are two weights and two weights in this Chamber of Representatives. I don't care if it bothers me. This is not about the severe sanction that I have wrongly suffered. It is about the fact that it is not correct to sanction one Member of Parliament and not to do so for the other. I received an e-mail from the President of the Chamber for the second time today. In fact, it is not a finger to the Members of Parliament, but an angry look on the part of the teacher, Mrs Tillieux, to the Members of Parliament, that they should no longer leak information. Fuck, fuck, fuck, fuck! Fuck, There's not going to be an investigation, there's going to be an investigation with me, there's not going to be an investigation with the rest. It wasn't secret information for me, it is now, but it's not a problem. Over and over again we see that real secrets are shared with Het Laatste Nieuws, VTM, VRT, Le Soir or La Libre Belgique from the Committee I. I always read that with great pleasure, but it is clearly two sizes and two weights. I certainly wish to express my displeasure about that. I hope that several Members of Parliament will be able to join. Mr President, I would like to ask you to point out, in a discussion with the President of the Chamber, that it cannot go on like this. Perhaps this could be discussed at the Conference of Presidents, as you will know. It is something that bothers me very much and I can only express once again my discontent about the leaks from the Chamber but also from the Defence Department. Madam Secretary, you say that this has been investigated for the previous leak, the report mentioned in Le Soir fourteen days ago. The conclusion of that study is that the report itself was not leaked to Le Soir, but some of its conclusions. I take it that a journalist is already satisfied when he gets the conclusions of a secret report, that's all he'll want. I never thought that the 80-page report was entirely delivered to an editorial board, and I never said that. I did say that I think there was a phone call from someone in the D.O.D.'s office. After all, it could not have come from the Chamber. Either it was you, someone from your cabinet or someone from the DOD. You replied that it did not come from you or from someone from your cabinet and that it would not benefit you at all. In that case, someone inside the Defense Department, the ADIV or the general staff must have called it in. Of course, that person didn't deliver the integral report to an editor, that's not how leaks work. This is done by calling an editor and reading the conclusions. A journalist is certainly already very satisfied with that. If you say that the report has not been leaked, but only the conclusions, then that is also a leak. Madam Secretary, perform and have a real investigation conducted within the Defense Department to find out exactly who leaked it. Secondly, with regard to the Jürgen Conings file, we were able to read the complete personnel file and the personal history of a military officer in Het Laatste Nieuws. It's a fugitive military. We didn't even know he died at the time. Yet his complete personnel file appeared in Het Laatste Nieuws. That cannot have been leaked through the Chamber because we did not have it. I'm assuming it wasn't leaked by the Defense Department either, because I'm just not imagining it. So it's got to be a leak at the DOD, too. Someone leaked Jürgen Coning's entire personnel file to the editorial board of Het Laatste Nieuws. How hurtful is that to the next of kin? People don't do that at all. Mr. Chod, would you like to see your entire personnel file and your entire psychosocial past in the Latest News if you make a mistake tomorrow? Would you like that? I urge you not to use two sizes and two weights and to carry out a thorough investigation. Madam Minister, you have answered questions 1, 2, 3 and 4, which I have asked you. On my fifth question whether an investigation was initiated with the defence staff into the possible leak of the Jürgen Conings report to the newspaper Le Soir and the leak of personnel data to Het Laatste Nieuws I did not receive an answer. We ask you to ask for a thorough investigation into the leak in Le Soir and the leak in The Last News at Defense. I realize there's a chance you won't find it, but you have to give a clear signal. I do not wish you to experience this for another four years, Minister, because every time you come here you will have to explain leaks in your own administration or military apparatus, including civilian personnel, because I do not know who has access to such secret or personal information. Then you won't have much fun here either. I'm not saying you've had a lot of fun in the Chamber, I'll leave that in the middle, but it'll be very difficult here. If my town hall were to leak personnel files completely, it would be a big carnival. I wouldn't accept that as mayor. Then there would be an investigation. I will certainly come back to this. I'll keep asking for a proper investigation into the leaks, because that's really not possible. I also have a number of reservations. As far as the studies themselves are concerned, I think they are of high quality. I think it's thorough, interesting reports. I found reading the latest report even more shocking than reading the previous report. I read: a structural lack of staff, a large staff turnover, loss of knowledge and experience, limited supervision, a manifest lack of information flow, both bottom-up and top-down, new and complex operating structure at ADIV that is almost unreadable and never motivated against the staff, insufficient management, personnel problems, no clear picture of extremism, lack of information flow within defence with other security actors, errors in police, prosecutors, investigators, or still: the problems were detected in time, but not actively or insufficiently followed up. Those are very serious accusations and remarks. The report leaves little to the imagination. I understand that it will be made public and published on the Chamber's website, even though some elements will probably be blacked out. That's a positive thing, I think. Everyone has the right to be transparent about this. Any citizen can read it himself. So the report detected a lot of errors. This means that, as a parliamentary representation, we have a lot of work to do. The first recommendation is not for nothing more parliamentary attention to the 1998 Military Intelligence Act and to the entire debate on military intelligence services. More parliamentary attention is a task for all of us. We are doing this by asking questions here, starting the debate, making a working visit and hopefully hearing Mr Boucké, the general responsible, next week. My question is indeed to hear him over the next few days or next week and to discuss with him. If possible, this also applies to the head of the OCAD. So we're definitely taking that recommendation. You can count on the N-VA for that. We will also follow up on the issue. When it comes to recommendations, you say that you have a plan that you will propose by the end of the year. More budget will be requested. The CHOD has already given its agreement for more employees at the ADIV. If services can be strengthened, it is certainly a good thing that there will be a plan. We will follow that up and check whether your announcements are being put into practice here, because that is another matter. I have three more points. My first point relates to extremism. You have now, for the first time, extended and explained how the fork is being handled, Madam Secretary. You say that you are pleased to be able to inform us of this in the light of the disinformation of the last few weeks. I don't feel touched about that. I didn't want to do any disinformation. I've requested information and I haven't received any information. Will the military who have supported Jürgen Conings on social media receive a sanction? Are they in the scope of ADIV? Are they being followed? Are they being called on the mat? I didn't get any information on that, while the military reported it to me. Now you're literally saying that that didn't happen and that the judicial investigation is still ongoing. That was your answer. I understand that correctly and your statement has been formally noted that the military who have liked, followed or shared the group "I support Jürgen Conings" or any other support group of his have in no way come into the sight of ADIV or been called to Defense. It is very good that you formally deny this. We'll see where that goes. We'll definitely look into this. I can only take your word for it. You're the Secretary of Defense. As far as extremism is concerned, I'm still really hungry. The current directive says that military forces can be sanctioned in the following case, and I quote: 'Involved in social media has expressed an opinion that is not in line with the value of Defence and is damaging the image'. I said that last time, and that is what the report says. I said last time that this could be interpreted very broadly if it were formulated in this way. You are now saying that this needs to be discussed further and that it needs to be clarified what the directives are. You will understand that this is very broad. You say it's not about freedom of speech. We continue to respect that. You know what our concern is. We cannot organise a witch hunt for everything that is Flemish and right, or French and right, because it exists, but it must always be proportional. You say that at the moment there are about ten files where a security clearance is withdrawn or not granted. I assume these are the files we've been talking about for weeks. Those aren't new files. There have been a number of appeals to the Council of State or to the disciplinary authorities to challenge that, I understand from the people against whom disciplinary proceedings have been initiated. We'll see where that final goes. I would also like to ask you about the articles that appeared this morning in De Morgen and Het Laatste Nieuws and which refer to one of those military officers who has been sanctioned for being a member of a motorcycle club. Apparently, that man has access to the ammunition depot in Leopoldsburg. He'd be out there guarding or doing another job. He lost his security clearance, though, but he would still have access. There is a lot of fuss about that today. I am not participating in this, because first of all we need to find out exactly what his mission is. I would like to know whether the information that is in the newspapers today is correct and whether the security clearance of someone who belongs to the 10 has been revoked or not extended and has been replaced from his service but still has access to the ammunition depot in Leopoldsburg. Is that right? Do you find that problematic or is there a good explanation for that? Can you explain that, because I think a lot of people drew big eyes this morning when they read it in the coffee and wondered if they would never learn from their mistakes? We shall be watching with great vigilance the debate on extremism. It is not because one is Flemish or right that one is extremist. You have said in this House that Mr Buysrogge is a hate-sorcerer and perhaps you will also find N-VAs extremists. It could be. There are certainly a lot of people here, and I have been seeing this in Parliament for 21 years now, from the Parti Socialiste and from Ecolo who find the N-VA and people like me, extremists. A lot of PSs think so. I have seen it many times in Parliament calling for me racist, extremist and fascist. Every few months they shout that with great enthusiasm. You accused Mr Buysrogge, a very moderate man and a good chairman of the House. I didn't know what I heard when you said that. A lot of people fell off their seats back then, I guess. It's not because the average PS'er and Ecolo'er think an N-VA'er is an extremist, that everyone within the Defense and any military that the N-VA likes and thinks our party is doing a good job, that's why it's an extremist. I hope this is not the way things are going to be, otherwise there will be big problems. We are still living in a democracy, and I do not really care about your personal opinion in that regard. It cannot be the intention for people from my party or soldiers who express sympathy for my party and my political ideology to be regarded as extremists, even if you personally consider them to be. That's your right, but that goes too far. I would like to say a few words about the psychosocial factors. I noticed that almost nothing was said about this in the file. You are also announcing improvements in this area and saying that you will review a number of things and that you will take certain initiatives. A number of colleagues have already taken a parliamentary initiative. We are going to follow that very closely in Parliament. Last week we had a very interesting hearing with a Dutch professor about, among other things, the psychosocial well-being of the Defense Department. I asked questions there, along with a few colleagues. Unfortunately, few colleagues were present, but it was very interesting and relevant. That too must be followed up by Parliament. I am not saying that psychosocial factors have played a role in Jürgen Conings, but we still have work to do. So you can certainly count on the support of the N-VA, Madam Secretary. Finally, one final point on political responsibility. At the time of entry, I told a number of journalists that you would be bigger if you recognized a certain amount of political responsibility. You don't have to quit. You pretend there is no political responsibility, but there is. That does not mean, however, that you must resign as Minister. You're politically responsible. There have been very serious errors under your mandate. Of course you didn't give that man weapons. Mr Vande Lanotte did not open Mr Dutroux's prison either. Of course, this is not how it works with political responsibility. I've been there myself, and I've never denied them. A number of colleagues then called for me to resign as a Member of Parliament. Those colleagues are not here now, but they are members of a party here. It was the first time in the history of the Chamber that someone had to resign as MP for political responsibility. I've never seen that before. Then you'll have the most votes of all 150 members and you'll have to resign as a Member of Parliament. They'd like that. You are, of course, politically responsible, Madam Minister, you cannot deny that. In that sense, it would please you if you could take that responsibility. There's nothing wrong with that either. Therefore, you must not close your books immediately and clear your cabinet. There's still a little margin on that. It would be a pleasure for you to do so. I quote from the report: 'The investigation shows that although there was a briefing on ongoing operations, it was not clear whether the name Conings was explicitly mentioned'. It's about yourself or someone from your cabinet, your head of your cabinet, for example. It's still unclear. You have declared to the public that you had never heard of Mr Conings, that you knew nothing about it. That's your lifeline. You were saved politically because no one knew about your cabinet. You know that. You know perfectly well what the fork is like. If anyone in your cabinet had known about the Conings case, you would have hung. However, you said you didn't know anything, even the boss of ADIV and the boss of Defense didn't know anything. No one's ever heard of that man before. That's crazy. For the first time in history, a military is placed on level 3 within the Defense Department and no one knew about it. It was not clear when reading whether the name Conings was explicitly mentioned. I think that some people in the investigation have said: yes, that was said and that others have said: no, that was not said. Madam Secretary, can you confirm that the name Conings was in no way reported to your cabinet? None of your cabinet had ever heard of that man, even in a context other than Level 3? So you've never heard the name Jürgen Conings? That remains very unclear to me. It's important to know exactly what's going on. It wasn't clear. This means that the research has not been able to find out exactly what it was like. I certainly understand that the head of ADIV regularly comes to the cabinet, as in the time of Mr Vandeput, Mr Loones and Mr Reynders. He comes by and gives a briefing on the pending files, but there is no record of that. Wouldn't that be helpful? Now the word is against word. You say: no, he was never mentioned, but someone says: yes, that was the case, then your word has more political weight. You will be believed, but there is no report. My proposal is to make reports on the briefings of the boss of ADIV on your cabinet, so that there is proof of which file was discussed and which file was not. There's a lot of work to be done. I think it would be useful to avoid such discussions. After all, that is the whole point. Did you know or didn't you know? One more technical question. Is it correct that the operation has so far cost EUR 877,000 to the Defense Department? I assume that's pretty much done now. Madam Minister, thank you very much for your work and your commitment to the future. We're definitely gonna get to work on that. We will continue to look at this in a positive and constructive way. We will always be at our disposal for better and stronger defence and also for stronger military intelligence. I think our concerns and sensitivities have been well given to this. I hope that you will be able to take that into account in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic537x.u4	Mr President, Madam Minister, thank you for your presentation. I would also like to thank the authors of the report, which, as has been said, is a good report, as is the services of the House for the organization of the consultation of this report by the members of the committee who, like me, are not members of the monitoring committee of the P and R committees. Like others, I thought in reading the press that I was going to save two hours of my time by not having to go to the report because everything was already there. Fortunately, that is not the case. The report is richer. However, one may wonder what is the point of having levels of security and confidentiality, if the filters are, in fact, just sieves. Of course, it is known that the perpetrators of the leaks, whether at the political, administrative or defence level, are not at risk. It is very difficult to find and identify them. In any case, this is a fine example of cowardice and duplicity. If there are many differences of opinion between my group and that of Mr Franken, it must be admitted that when he leaks secret and confidential information, he does so publicly and on his own behalf. Turning to the report, I know that it is not our role to analyse its content in depth. I note, however, that it is more alarmist than the first report. One can recall the shortage of staff, far too much rotation of staff, loss of knowledge and experience – this is not new. This report also goes into more detail on the issue of Jürgen Conings' very light supervision, even after his classification at level 3 of the threat, as well as on the hallucinating failure in the flow of information between and within intelligence services. Several responsibilities are clearly identified here. I must tell you that the reading of this report shocked and pissed me off. His goal was to determine who knew what, when and to whom he passed it on. It is now known that many knew, often late, by the way, without transmitting. In view of the fact that all the recommendations of the Attentats Committee remain valid, I would like to know what has been done since 2016. Already in 2015, the R Committee had published a report calling for vigilance in the detection and monitoring of extremist elements in the Defence. At that time, the name Conings came, for the first time, to the ears of the State Security. This raises serious questions. The report is a series of missed opportunities, untransmitted or unreceived information, and unanswered questions. As you recalled, the State Security provided a note with specific questions to the SGRS. This note was obviously lost somewhere, and the answers never arrived. It's very challenging. It seems to me that this is a clear example of the responsibility of the hierarchy. Through the first report, we were already aware of the absence of the SGRS at the important first meeting of the local task force in which the Conings case was discussed. It is stated here that there have been other meetings in the presence of the SGRS but that no impetus has come from it and that no division of labour has been decided on this issue. But a new element surprised me a little. The internal report mentioned that the intelligence operation on Conings, which you referred to, decided on 15 February, two days before its crossing at level 3 of the threat, had been suspended and that no specific method of intelligence had been undertaken because of the start of an operation considered to be more urgent. This report tells another story. It is said that the second operation did not actually begin until May 4, 2021, and that the primary reason why this investigation was not followed up was an overcrowded staff. We're actually swimming in the face of surrealism! There is also the issue of the common Terrorist Fighters database that the SGRS staff do not know and to which they apparently do not regularly connect. We are talking about the MRRS, but it is clear that communication and information issues are not just about Defence. Errors were also made by other security actors. The police, the prosecutor's office, the investigating judge and the other intelligence services must ask themselves the question of their own responsibility in this case. It is read that on several occasions, one department thought that naturally another would take control of the follow-up and that, therefore, it was not done. So we had runners who each stayed in their corridor without looking at or talking to their colleagues on the right or left, and yet headed for the same goal. It's a waste of time and hallucinating means. There is absolutely a need for better coordination and greater cross-cuttingity. I am not going to deal very much with the additional tasks of the SGRS. There's still security at the weapons depots. The SRMS is supposed to "advise the military command, verify implementation, identify deficiencies and inform the commanding officer". However, when we see what the report says about the Conings unit, we wonder where the SSRS was. Apparently, the rule was not respected at all. Otherwise, he couldn't have had access to the arsenal he stole. No mention is made of the notification and accompanying of the unit by the SGRS. When those responsible for identifying and filling gaps are themselves overcome by their own shortcomings, it is problematic. Here I hear your willingness to reform the place of this unit within the Defence. That's a little reassuring. Today, I would like to know whether the transfer of this Belang member to Bourg-Léopold was an integral part of a long-term strategy. When he was assigned as an instructor with access to the armory, did he already have a plan in mind? Or did he act in the momentum of the moment, taking advantage of the opportunity given to him by the flaws of the Defence? I hope that the judicial investigation can answer that question. I'm asking you this question, but I guess you don't have the answer. It is part of a broader framework. In any case, the report seems very clear to me. Serious errors have been made at all levels of the SMS, as well as in the line of command, which will require further development in relation to its responsibilities. We've heard calls calling for the heads of a few, including General Philippe Boucké. Of course, it cannot be said that his responsibility is not engaged. But, and this is one but important, a major reform of the service was launched in early 2020 for a team that, in the report's own words, has been abandoned for many years. Interesting elements are already being found in this restructuring, but they could not be implemented or communicated internally, in particular, apparently, for reasons related to the pandemic. On the other hand, restructuring can only take place with a sufficient number of staff, otherwise it will never work. We have all repeated it here and we all know it. But we also need stability in the direction, and I think it's important. However, the succession of directorates had an immediate impact on the lack of vision, on the lack of clear objectives of the SMS, and also on the long term. I am therefore not certain that a new change would have a positive impact on the service. In addition, it is time to have a computer system that does not date back to the last century. We're gonna have to move on. I do not think that everything should be changed again, and the report does not say that either. I believe that what needs to be done today is to take this service back in hand, strengthen it where faults have been identified, and in a broader way, work on the clear division of roles. However, it does not prevent us from deepening this question of the responsibilities of the hierarchy in the matter before us. Indeed, as long as this issue remains open, it will only weaken the management currently in charge of following the restructuring of the SGRS. I also propose, therefore, that we in this committee hear quickly General Boucké on this matter, if possible even before the summer break. Minister, the report mentions the fact that some leads have not yet been followed to the end. What about it? Will there be follow-up on these leads? Are we going to clear them up and clear them up? We know that intelligence services are not doing an easy job. Everyone hits the SMS, but we know that they have not been helped either by allowing their working conditions to deteriorate for years, despite the many calls for help they have made. Responsibility must therefore be shared with the political world and certainly with those who had been in control in recent years. It is said that many mistakes have been made. That's right, while you were a minister, but also while others were ministers. It is therefore also necessary to be able to distribute the burden of political responsibility over the entire political class that has been in control for years. I am very pleased, Madam Minister, to hear your willingness to move forward and take over the role of the SGRS through your action plan. I encourage you and we will be at your side. It is urgent and yet it will take time. We won't be able to change everything into a snap of fingers, but I trust you to conduct this at the best and in the shortest possible time. There is a long series of recommendations, let us not allow them to be added to the list of texts without action, which Mr Flahaut says Parliament's attic is full. Let's use them and implement them! Finally, with regard to the issue of standards and values, we cannot let anything go! I am pleased to hear that you will try to objectify what is permitted or not, what is a matter of freedom of expression and what is a call for hatred and what is a behaviour of discrimination and hatred. It will not be easy, but the struggle for democracy needs to be mobilized, including on these issues, and to draw the clearest possible lines. Also, I hope to be able to count on the entire military hierarchy to work actively to ensure that standards and values are respected on a daily basis. Minister, we will be at your side in the continuation of the work that you are going to do to re-establish this service, which is obviously very badly developed. We will be careful as you reserve these recommendations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic537x.u5	Mr. Chair, I thank the Minister for her comprehensive report. I don't know what I have to say so much I am stunned and shocked to see the state of the SSRS. We are talking here about a military intelligence service of a country, we are not talking about a simple ASBL or a parish work! It is all the more shocking that this service has already been the subject of a number of comments and audits by the R Committee and that it dates back several years! When I hear our colleague Franken, who has talked a lot about him, who has been very victimized rather than talking about the challenges of the army, I wonder what Mr Vandeput, this N-VA minister, has done, apart from buying the F-35s. There is a share of political responsibility in his chief, major, if he was aware - and he must have been aware - of the reports of the R Committee. Why did he not put in place, in parallel with his frenzy of material acquisition, a human resources policy that would undoubtedly have improved the general functioning of the army, the general functioning of this SGRS and avoid what we know today? We could have had an even more tragic outcome if Mr Conings, a violent and radicalised person - classified by the OCAM as an extreme right-wing terrorist - had committed an attack with the weapons he had stolen. I think we really escaped it beautiful! This cannot happen again. So I'm very happy to see that you've kept your cool since the beginning of this crisis, while some or some of you have tried to make it lose. You didn't give in to panic. Together with your cabinet and the army officials, you immediately took the urgent steps that were necessary. With the government, you decided to launch the necessary investigations. So we see a series of proposals and actions on your part to repair what has not been repaired in good time by others, both in terms of point failures and structural failures. You made it clear that for too long there has been a lack of attention to the phenomenon of radicalisation and rise of right-wing extremism - and perhaps also left-wing extremism - in the army. That is why I am still being asked by some of my colleagues, particularly those of our colleague Franken. He is sometimes inconsistent and contradicts himself in his intervention. For example, he indicated that it was impossible for anyone to have been made aware of the danger posed by Mr. Conings.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic537x.u6	Mr Lacroix, I have an interruption from Mr Francken. You've been working on Mr. Francken all along. I therefore give the floor to Mr Francken for a reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic537x.u7	Mr President, Mr Lacroix, I will try to be brief. I have indeed spoken a little longer because I want to make a number of points very clear. As an opposition, the N-VA, the largest party in the country and the largest fraction of the Chamber has the right to make its point. I know it's frustrating when I talk, but I'm gonna keep doing it anyway. Oh, don't forget to mention my name a lot. I will then be able to take the floor on the basis of the Rules of Procedure. It is a pity that the Minister is not here. It'd be better if she was there. However, it is important to give three points. Firstly, referring all the time to one four-year legislature, in which the N-VA has been allowed to run Defence, is completely aberrant, especially in the light of decades of underinvestment in Defence under PS governance. Defense went bad under the PS. It is always the closing point for every budget discussion, where the PS has been proposing for years to take the money away from the defense because there was still money there. Certainly no money was to be taken away from social security. That had to be left out of it. Nor should it be removed in development cooperation. That had to be left out of it. It had to be taken away from the DOD. Secondly, if you have such a huge problem with the F-35 then stop the order. Stop the order. Over and over again, you're talking about the F-35. Don't you think that's something you're supposed to object to? Who's Secretary of Defense? Your Minister is Minister of Defense. The PS has the Secretary of Defense. So stop ordering or stop honking. It's either one or the other. You will order; you will pay. So it's either one or the other. Thirdly, we have indeed supported a number of recommendations. We want to work together in Parliament, as we always do in the Committee on Defence, in order to develop better defence. In my view, we have finally brought about a change of direction in the defence sector, mainly in terms of investment. Mr Lacroix, the current government wants to focus on staff. I've always supported that. I'll keep doing that, too. I supported that as the next step in hopefully a turnaround. Mr Lacroix, hopefully I'll be here with you in 10 or 20 years. The odds may not be great, but I'm probably gonna be here. I will certainly ask you whether we had a difficult period during that period and whether you remember Mrs Dedonder and Mrs Jürgen Conings' time and whether that period was a turnaround. I will also ask you whether this has made our defences stronger than twenty or fifteen years before. Isn't that what we do as Parliamentarians? Are we turning around? I think so. In any case, there has never been so much attention to the Committee on Defence and to our work for Defence in the last 20 years. Finally, I'd say. That is a good thing. So let us continue to work, you from your ideology and I from mine. Let us try to work out our goal, which is a stronger defence, for you a little more European-oriented, a little more NATO-oriented for me. Let us achieve that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic537x.u8	Mr President, I thank the honourable Member for having responded. It is his right and I would have done the same under such circumstances - I have already done so. Nevertheless, it is true that, of course, everything is always the fault of the Socialist Party, as we know, in this country! When something is wrong, it is easy for you, especially in Flanders, Mr Franken, to say that it is the fault of the PS. We're not going to keep scaring ourselves on this because it's completely in vain. Here we are trying to find solutions, but that does not mean that we must not point out responsibilities. When I say that one of the reasons for what happened today must also be looked at in the past, it is in particular because some of the R Committee's reports dating back to 2015 already clearly indicated problems related to the SGRS, in particular. I wanted to point out the inconsistencies in your remarks, Mr. Franken. I'll quote you again and I'll open the door again. I like to debate with you, even if we're going to leave the floor a little bit to colleagues. You're wondering how it's possible we got to Mr. Conings and the fact that no one knew about it, etc. Personally, I think that, precisely, not paying enough attention to the first signals of radicalisation, even if they are anodizing, even if they are fortuitous, may be one of the reasons why it was not detected early enough. That is why I welcome the fact that from now on, through new, strictly regulated procedures, in accordance with the law of defence personnel, there is nevertheless a watch over radicalisation. In any case, the fact that some soldiers are liking a support group to an extreme right-wing terrorist - indeed, it is not an individual lambda, he is an extreme right-wing terrorist - must require questioning. I did not say that we should go beyond questioning, but it is normal to wonder why a member of the military is sensitive to such a speech and even goes so far as to publicly support an extreme right-wing terrorist. We must have the same reflex with an extreme right or far left terrorist as with a jihadist, a radicalized Muslim or Islamist. For me, it's the same thing. We have to take care of it. Madam Minister, in a previous committee you announced that you would launch an investigation into the leaks on the first report. What about today? Do you already have any information about this leak? What do you intend to do with the second leak, what we learned in the press this morning about information from the R Committee report that was already disclosed yesterday? In terms of your willingness to identify a new strategy, clear priorities for organizational culture, human resources, improved quality and information processing within the General Intelligence and Security Service (SGRS), what about the timing? You mentioned several dates. I'd like you to give us some details. As some colleagues have mentioned, I believe that on the staff and how we can act to improve the functioning of the service on a sustainable basis, but also the quality of human resources in our army, we will have to hear from General Boucké, the Inspector General and the CHOD very quickly – in my opinion as soon as next week. It's not about starting to talk about responsibilities, it's about action plans and personnel, how they see things, and how they can be, with you, positive elements and drivers of change. I also noted that you were talking about stability. I believe that rotations in military careers and these time-limited contracts have been obstacles to a form of stability. I would like you to further develop your demands for rigour, precision, sense of responsibility. I note with interest the clarification you are requesting regarding the verification of security clearances, including for civilians, with a regular assessment of civilians and military personnel and the steps to be taken in case. I believe that these procedures, which did not exist, must be put in place urgently. You also talked about clarifying the hierarchical line and dispelling the misunderstanding or, in any case, the way to understand things between the disciplinary regime, judicial actions and the fact that some or some of them look at themselves in faience dogs and may not make the right decisions because they don't have the right reflexes. Finally, I believe that, in relation to arms and ammunition stores and clearances for access to arms depots and weapons themselves in the case of the specific functions of each individual, you are well advised to insist on verification and reasonable methods to be applied. I won't be much longer. I would like to remind you, however, that you have the support of our group. That goes without saying. When you became Minister of Defence, I also did not expect you to face such a challenge. We knew that, in terms of personnel, human resources, there were really great ambitions to be achieved. But the crisis we are going through today must serve us. I agree with my colleague, Theo Francken, on this point, even if, in 20 years' time, I do not think I will be in Parliament anymore and I will certainly no longer be involved in politics at all. Contrary to what some may say about you, Mr. Franken, I never accused you of being extremist or fascist. I've always had a wholesome and cordial relationship with you. I have always noted – as I say here in a public session – that, even if I do not share your positions or your ideology at all, you are a Member of Parliament who, in the Defence Committee, is working hard and serious. I therefore hope that, in twenty years' time, we will have the opportunity to remember around a glass of beer – more at all in the Chamber – the work we have done together to improve the Defence and the working conditions of the staff. On the other hand, I would like to acknowledge once again the seriousness and sense of responsibility of the minister and her team. Vlaams Belang will speak after me through Mrs Ponthier, who will develop an inquiry. Therefore, I have also tabled a text to counter this inquiry. I wanted to say that since it has to be done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic537x.u9	Look, I haven't had to say anything yet and a simple motion has already been tabled. Mr Lacroix is so progressive! Madam Minister, thank you for the explanatory statement and the presentation of the report before our committee met. A word of thanks also fits because, unlike last time, you answered the various questions and the interplay. My colleague will be happy to hear it, but I would like to take this opportunity to denounce the hypocrisy that has emerged here. The Parti Socialiste says that they are correcting what others have failed to correct. One has to dare. It is like the PS, which for years has spared Defense and has done nothing against procedural and communication errors, where everyone can now see that in many cases they have failed to do so. Without the Jürgen Conings case, nothing would be corrected at all, I am convinced of that. Then the situation on the ground would continue to rot. What has happened is particularly regrettable, but it has at least ensured that we are now having this debate and, more importantly, that we may finally be able to change things on the ground, because that is more than necessary. As far as the leak is concerned, once again, Madam Minister, you really have a problem. In your organization, people who have a direct or indirect interest in leaking crucial files to the media. I agree with some of the previous speakers and urge you to investigate the leaks to the bone. It will really benefit you in the coming period, if you take a thorough look at things now, I assure you. Finally, Mr President, I would like to highlight a nuance in relation to the media reports on Jürgen Conings' career, track record and ideas. Today we read literally in the report on media bias, and I quote: "The image that is being hung by the media does not always seem to be in line with reality." So there appears to be a great bias. Of course, that is not surprising, given that the entire dossier is being abused by the politically correct segment in our society for political recovery. I have said it several times: for some time now there has been a witch hunt against almost everything and everyone who is Flemish and right at Defence. You can continue to deny that, but it does exist and we believe that it is an extension of this. We very much regret that. The report drawn up by the Committee I leaves little to interpretation. It is an extensive and high-quality report, but unfortunately the essence is very brief: serious mistakes have been made in the Jürgen Conings case. The report is devastating about the operation of the ADIV. That's very painful. It speaks of a diseased organisation, partly because of a lack of staff, resources and communication. Of course, the ADIV has not done nothing, but the service seems to be tied to hands and feet for its daily operation due to a very complex structure. According to the report, the Committee I has been informed several times in recent years that the Regulation IF5 would be updated. The current version dates back to 2004, and it seems that the issue is still pending. That's very striking, isn't it? The report also points out that the Committee I has already done a great deal of work. It's already prepared several research reports. I'll go over the list. In 2011 there was the audit with the military intelligence service, in 2015 there was: the detection and follow-up of extremist elements among defence personnel, in 2018 there was the document: the operation of the Counterintelligence Directorate of the ADIV, in 2019 there was that on the operation of the Counterintelligence Directorate and the follow-up of the recommendations, in 2019 there was the report on the operation of the Human Interest Department of the military intelligence service, in 2020 there was the document on information and communication technology in the intelligence process with the ADIV. In 2019 there was the report on the implementation of safety screening. In 2021, there was the text on the risk of infiltration in the two intelligence services. That's seven or eight reports in recent years. One might wonder whether anyone has ever read those reports and whether anything has happened to them in view of all the current shortcomings with the ADIV structure and with the intelligence service in general. In the meantime, the report concludes that the findings and recommendations of those reports have not had the appropriate impact is the understatement of the year. In any case, a lack of information flow seems to be the common thread throughout the file. In the report we can read one alarm signal after another: at the OCAD, at the ADIV, at the State Security in particular. Apparently they remained blind, deaf and dumb to the potential danger. There was very poor or uncommunicated communication between the various responsible services and the heads of service. In the end, as we have seen, things have evolved very quickly. The military in question could have gone ahead and no one looked up. There were no controls, no concerns, no worries. It is very worrying to see this report in black and white, I can tell you that. With regard to the recommendations on these findings, the report gives us once again the benefit of clarity, because the recommendations are to the point, but there are a lot of them. You said you couldn't straighten things out or treat them all at once. Some recommendations in the report are given priority. For example, there is not enough communication between the various services of the intelligence community. There are no harmonised services or systems, which, of course, makes communication difficult. Even worse is the uncertainty about what, how, when and to whom, both externally, for example, to the Security of the State, as well as internally, horizontally or vertically in the organizational culture to be communicated. The hierarchy has not explained this to the employees who need to know it either. Along with a lack of staff, it has at a crucial moment in the Jürgen Conings case ensured that the ADIV was not present at a crucial meeting where possible measures were discussed against Conings' terrorist threat, such as the inclusion in the GGBTF (common database terrorist fighters) and the award of threat level 3. However, all sorts of signals had already given the impression that this military was a potential danger. Didn't they see it or didn't they want to see it? Didn't they see any relevance? Was that purely a result of a lack of staff? I think it's an accumulation of reasons. With regard to data processing, we do not only see a personnel problem. The number of staff is too low and illness slows down the follow-up, but there are also problems with the use of and knowledge about the systems. In the report we read that employees who are responsible for the succession of extremism have been a focus for several years, not or hardly familiar with the use and finality of the GGBTF. Those employees also have no idea what it means exactly if they include someone in the database, what consequences that has and what practical consequences that could change for those involved. These are very striking facts, just like the fact that five people who no longer work for the ADIV still have access to the database. Some didn't even know they had access and who did have access wasn't familiar with it and the information didn't flow through. We also see that this is very concrete, but it is striking that 49 employees have had access to the data, but that between November 2020 and April 2021 there was a very crucial period, in retrospect only 32 logins were carried out by two employees. There is a lack of clarity as to the purpose for which this has happened. We can read that the name Jürgen Conings is not spoken on any level or ring a bell. The Committee I is therefore quite right to say that the use of the Terrorist Fighters database is far from satisfactory. The lack and turnover of staff is also a common thread, in addition to communication. You said just now that you will pay attention to this in the new recruitment, both at the ADIV and for other recruitment, I suspect. You are talking about a security certificate for new recruits, both for military and civilian personnel. How are we supposed to see this in practice? What will you pay attention to? What criteria are used? The communication on this must be very clear with regard to new recruits and leave no doubt. In addition, the Committee I also says that the ADIV should deliver better quality, which seems to me to kick in an open door and do quality control. Given the number of people and resources available, this seems to be an easy and logical statement, but the practice is still somewhat more difficult. To sum up, there is a communication deficit, protection of one's own baronie, if I may use that word, and insufficient resources. There is also a bit of a coincidence that has caused what has happened to happen, but we really cannot use that little bit of coincidence in the whole story as an excuse. The problems are more structural. As you said, there is a need for a structural policy plan and I hope that you will finally implement it. There is a Flemish saying, Madam Secretary: we drank a glass, we did a puddle and everything remained as it was. I sincerely hope that you will not use that saying to re-assess the numerous recommendations as dead letter. You are ultimately responsible for everything that went wrong with the ADIV and Defence, whether you like it or not. Whether you are directly responsible or not, you are the ultimate responsibility. You're talking about a roadmap in your future vision. I'd say don't linger. It's high time for action. Together with my colleague, Steven Creyelman, I look forward to what you, as a political finalist, will do in order to implement these recommendations quickly. You have already mentioned a number of things, but I can tell you that my group will follow all the segments, namely cooperation between the various intelligence services in this country, recruitment measures, communication measures, the follow-up of extremism in the defence sector, from whatever angle and, above all, its concrete impact. You can count on it. Mr President, I have tabled a motion of recommendation in response to the Minister's reply on the need for additional psychosocial support for the military.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic537x.u10	Mr. Speaker, thank you, as well as the Speaker of the House and the Minister, for organizing this debate, and for doing so with a form of publicity. I heard the comments on the leaks, which I regret. We had the permission of the R Committee for the release of this report by telling us that a line could not be circulated. Why didn't you say so earlier? It is particularly important to look at the problem of leaks when everyone can have access to the report. It may therefore be necessary to coordinate our committee more closely with the Speaker of the House in order to avoid these issues of confidentiality if the report is not confidential – apart from a line that has had to be blackened. As far as the hearings are concerned, I agree with what Mr Lacroix has said. It would be interesting to conduct these hearings and I plead for them to take place as soon as possible. I do not want a debate related to this state scandal to overshadowed our national holiday. The sooner it takes place, the better. However, I note a need because it is good to receive the CHOD and the SGRS, but it would also be interesting to hear the authors of the investigation report, namely the Inspectorate General and a member of the Committee R. A hearing of these defence services without having the authors of the investigation would seem to me incomplete. But I leave it to your sagacity and that of colleagues to position themselves on the issue. What are we talking about today? Some colleagues have said that there have always been problems at the SMS, that this is not new. I'd say it's never been worse than it is today! We never had a soldier equipped with war weapons on the run, while the SGRS had been informed for three months that he was at level 3 of the threat. Then we knew that he was planning to carry out attacks, that people were being targeted. They were therefore potential victims of death. It's about rocket launchers, with a man who found himself in nature. So we can legitimately think that if things have never worked very well in the SMS, they have never worked so badly. That is why we are meeting today to discuss this issue. Madam Minister, thank you for your briefing. I also thank the R Committee, which, in record time, produced a detailed report of rare quality, precision and depth. We cannot ignore the core of this report, namely the responsibilities of the SGRS, the shortcomings, the serious errors. This report refers to the need for SMS managers to learn to work. There is therefore a lack of professionalism, a lack of strategic vision of how certain objectives are to be achieved, management that does not have the level of requirements required for an intelligence service, internal communication in the dark and internal communication problems within the SMS and Defence in the broad sense. Nor would a number of SRMS experts be familiar with the use of common terrorist threat databases. This is still a country's intelligence service, to echo what Mr. Lacroix said. It is also mentioned that the meaning of threat levels as developed by the OCAM is not integrated, is not understood. I was elected in 2003. I must confess that, even after the attacks we experienced in 2016, I did not see such an overwhelming report on a state service. I have never seen a service attacked so heavily about its shortcomings, including problems that are not recent. Extremisms have been identified for years at the defence level. We're talking right-wing extremism, Islamism. Otherwise, the National Security Council would not have entrusted, in 2018, through the National Intelligence and Security Plan, the task of the SGRS to follow the radicalized military. I am not someone who personifies the debates and I am not going to do as some have done here, because the stakes are too serious. The question that I have to ask myself, after what we have suffered, the runaway and the three months of this state scandal, is the following. In other European countries, probably, the resignation of the heads of the service in question would have been tabled on the minister's table already a month ago, because we went through a state scandal. We were able to see the ineffectiveness of our military intelligence service, which does not communicate to you the fact that Mr. Conings is being assessed at level 3 of the threat by the OCAM. I want to be very clear about this, because it is written black and white in the report of Committee R. You have not been informed of this aspect. We're talking about Conings, some say, it's not very clear, but we're not telling you that. This is obviously the question of political responsibility. We can keep the blur. We had an exchange of three hours earlier with the number 1 Committee A. He told us, and he repeated, that the minister was not informed that Jürgen Conings was being assessed at level 3 of the threat by the OCAM. You have to say it. It's a fact. This does not mean that there is no political responsibility, even if shared. The report also points to the lack of resources and investments at the SMS level, but points out that this is not what led to the errors in this file. Indeed, it is not because you would have much larger budgets that you would be better able to track a member – there is only one member who is assessed at level 3 of the threat on the OCAM list. It is not because you have much larger budgets that you can do it better. We're only talking about one soldier. I think that in a number of countries, where the culture of the sense of the State is probably a little more maintained than in our own country, action would have already been taken. After what we have experienced, I would not understand that responsibilities and consequences are not taken into account. In view of such inefficiency at the head of our country's intelligence services, I expect sanctions from the minister responsible. In view of your presentation, your project and your political will, I cannot imagine reform. We will indeed have to reform this service in depth, Mr Defossé. As you read it, the R Committee tells us that this service will have to be reformed in depth. He even tells us that an extremely profound overhaul, or even a limitation of the tasks, will be necessary, so that the latter are, at the very least, fully assumed. He is obviously not the only one to decide. It makes a number of recommendations and proposals. As far as the method is concerned, I cannot imagine that you do not associate, alongside you and other services, the audit and intelligence services – the R Committee – with a reform that must inevitably be carried out. You have this responsibility on your shoulders, but I am convinced that if this reform does not succeed, it is the end of the intelligence services. If the overhaul of the military intelligence services, which you will have to carry out with the contribution of this commission, is not carried out, in the next mistake, we will necessarily put an end to the military intelligence services in this country. Since you are going to carry out reform projects, I would like to hear from you about the method. How will you articulate this reform? I see you already have specific ideas. The R Committee makes a number of recommendations and insists that an external evaluation of the military intelligence service should be organized. Should we not, beyond the reports that are in our possession and that have been brought to our knowledge today, build the reform project, with the R Committee, probably the General Inspectorate, without doubt other services yet? It is a fundamental reform, as I said, and I would expect that, on the method of building this reform, you can develop your intentions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic537x.u11	Madam Secretary, thank you for the speedy action you are taking. I have three points which I would like to make, according to the President's instructions. The first concerns the leak. This isn't innocent. I recall from previous discussions and discussions that the American secret services at some point did not want to give information to the Belgian intelligence services, because there was too much risk of leaks. That was about the anti-terrorism fight that was going on. There are masses of leaks in this Parliament about everything, but to have a leak in a military context, and then in the heart of the heart, in the intelligence services, is not innocent. That has enormous consequences. For example, our services cannot be aware of certain terrorist activities because they do not trust us. If the inclusion within NATO and other links can no longer exist, it is a huge problem and the Minister must intervene. I'm very attached to privacy, but for once the Minister can look everywhere in the computers about who says what and when, who has made a note, who has processed a text, who has gone to it, or who has been printed and on which printer. We need to know where those leaks are. We are losing any collegiality towards our international partners, and that can cost lives, because at some point we will no longer get crucial information from our allies because of these leaks. I come to my second point. I come from business and many things go wrong there too, there are operational errors that need to be corrected, there are cases that fall off the truck or the tire does not work. I think it's the art of correcting these matters as quickly as possible, which distinguishes a good company from a bad one. These things can happen in any organizational context, but it is the art of correcting those situations as quickly as possible. In this case, however, this takes a very long time. For as long as I can remember, this has been about the ADIV, my entire parliamentary career. At the time I received emails from one camp at ADIV asking to intervene and what later another camp asked me the same. Something's brewing there, and they're definitely not friends. I have never dealt with this in detail because it was with our group leader, but we are constantly being played. There's something going on inside these intelligence agencies, with different camps, which leads to all sorts of frustrations. Can't we get a tabula rasa? I do not mean the people, I do not need people to be pushed aside. Perhaps, however, one can start from scratch organizationally. We can abolish everything that has been done and try to rebuild it with a clean slate. The way in which our allies work can be taken as a benchmark. You have proved your qualities in this respect in the past, and I believe that it is a feasible map to do so quickly. My third and final point is how will you cover that short-term? What happened to Mr. Conings happened. That is not advertising for anyone, either for the majority or for the opposition. It hasn't been a good time for anyone to see what happens to DOD. How will you avoid this happening again in the short term? Have we taken sufficient action? I'll feel co-responsible if that didn't happen. Have we taken sufficient action not to detonate Conings-bis, Conings-three and so on? If it does, we'll all be sitting here with a very fucked-up face. That would really be a failure, whether one belongs to the opposition or the majority. Have we done enough to cover this in the short term? Are the people who potentially want to put an end to their lives in that way followed? Are they on the radar today? If it happens in two weeks, have we done everything we can to avoid it?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic537x.u12	Mr President, I do not know where to start because this report is overwhelming. Since the beginning of this case, I expected to learn some malfunctions, things that would not turn round. But I didn't expect it to be of this magnitude at all. On several occasions, the handling of this case by the SGRS has been pointed out. The report is still quite serious at this level. It states that serious errors have been made at all levels of the SGRS, but also across the entire line of defence: a structural shortage of staff in the various departments and at all levels, a large turnover of staff, loss of knowledge and expertise, limited supervision in Mr.Conings' unit, a manifest failure in the flow of information, a new complex working structure at the SGRS, too little guidance, personnel problems, no clear policy on extremism, and I am moving on. There is a lot of information at this level. I do not understand how we can be so "to the mass" on this issue. I saw today, in the debate, that at times there were small "wars" between parties, whereas the gravity is elsewhere. We're throwing a bullet at who's responsible for what. But we must not lose sight of the debate. We have a structural problem here. All parties that had exercised power in previous governments were responsible for that situation. There is no need to designate one or the other in particular. There are shortcomings and incompetences in the report. When I see that only one person takes care of the far right within the SGRS, you have to be serious! If we consider that there is a danger of terrorism on the far right, we must put the means to work on it. And it's not just the question of the SGRS. I pointed it out because the report is quite clear on this point, but I also want to point out the lack of political orientation. I take the recommendations as an example. This report points out that the Committee's recommendations on attacks are still largely valid. This means that, since then, nothing has been done or put in place. I do not understand that in a country that experienced attacks on March 22, 2016. It was a shock to everyone. The logic would be to say that the first thing to do is to implement the recommendations that have been made to stop living this kind of situation. Years later, we find ourselves with the same shortcomings, the same flaws. It's incomprehensible! We have seen political statements, announcements of measures, but, apparently, it was just a com'. The fight against terrorism was only a com'! Indeed, no recommendation on the structures that allow us to gather intelligence information has been implemented by the political world. It's not serious! I repeat the previous report, which dates back to May: "The monitoring investigation also showed that the two intelligence services, in the area of right-wing extremism, could only have few guidelines and guidelines, if any, from the political level. The Government or the National Security Council should further guide the services and identify their priority areas of interest." What's happened since then? Nothing! No direction, no direction! At some point, we have to get serious again. A sentence on page 38 of the R Committee's report shocked me: "Among these questions is not there more fundamentally that of the emergence of the threat of the extreme right in Belgium itself? Why and how do we see such a development? Is it just a lack of investment or risk consideration? Isn't that the sign of an accepted weakening of democracy?" If I were a ruling party, I would be worried about such a statement, which suggests that we passively accept the shift towards terrorist extremism without taking any action. That is what this report tells us. I don't understand how we got there! I do not understand that such glaring and grave flaws can exist in our country. A lot of questions arise. So, Minister, do you recognize the existence of a structural problem within the SSRS, the Defence and, more generally, the counter-terrorism policy, given that the recommendations that have been made are still not applicable? I want to have plans, etc. But the international situation should have alerted us. I am thinking here of the far-right attacks that have taken place in the world, in Christchurch, New Zealand, Germany, and I am passing by. At some point, it could have been said that there was a danger, that the situation had to be taken care of. Reports by the OCAM and the State Security have even alerted about this. On several occasions, I called in plenary session the competent ministers who reassured me that there was nothing to fear. At some point, you have to be serious! That's not possible! The R Committee asks whether the situation is not linked to an accepted weakening of democracy. What is your position on this, minister? Is there an acceptance of the situation? Or is this situation the result of political laxity? What means must be put in place to respond to this situation, even if I admit that I really do not trust what will be undertaken? Indeed, I have the impression that, systematically, we have similar reports. We had it at different times a few years ago, and we always find ourselves in the same situation. Perhaps there will be a miracle this time and measures will be put in place, but I am really not optimistic. I don't understand. With regard to Mr. Conings' situation in particular, again, the R Committee notes that Mr. Conings has been authorized to carry out various activities such as that of a guarding officer and recommends that you be asked about the compatibility of this type of function in private security with that of a member. I would like to know your position on this, and I confess that I have pinned this element for the following reason. I was really surprised. Minister, before I was a member of Parliament here, I was a worker. I'm not a professional politician at the base. I was a museum keeper. We had guard training, in which we were explained our profession and its incompatibility with other professions. For example, I cannot, if I leave my job as a guardman, for example, immediately start a profession as a private detective or police officer and vice versa. If, as a police officer or private detective, I resign today, I cannot assume the post of guarding officer tomorrow. This is justified by the fact that there can be no conflict of interest and that certain information to which one profession or the other gives access cannot be used, thus creating a conflict of interest. I do not realize that this is possible in the army. That surprised me. I would therefore like to know your position on this. Mr President, I just wanted to remind you of the substantive debate here, because half of the discussions were about leaks and responsibilities. Is this the N-VA, the PS? I believe that all the traditional parties that have passed through power are responsible for the situation and that this is a structural problem that must be taken into account. Changes must be made from the bottom to the bottom. That's what we expect from you, minister! These are not just superficial reforms but substantive reforms. And, at some point, we will also have to pin down the responsibilities. Who are the responsible? What made these flaws exist? It may also be necessary to highlight omerta systems on certain things that can happen and on which one does not want to communicate too much. We know, indeed, that there is a serious communication problem. How is it that the hierarchy is not aware of certain things, which also makes it responsible for the situation, because it is it that sets up the structure to prevent this communication. We need a profound change. I look forward to hearing what your plan is for this necessary change. We must not wait for another such serious and dramatic event to meet again in committee on this subject. It has to stop! There's been the Chovanec case, it's the same thing every time. We have to move forward and if we don't move forward, the consequences will be very serious. In other countries, half a quarter of what happened here would have been very expensive for politicians. We must take responsibility and stop turning our eyes off such serious and harmful dysfunctions in our society.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic537x.u13	Mr President, Minister, Admiral, thank you for this long and very comprehensive speech. This is another time we need to talk about Corporal Conings and his flight. We've had a lot. There have already been media reports with reactions on and off the record. We've had the inspector general's report, and now we have this report. It contains a number of new elements, but above all the confirmation in broad terms of everything we already knew. Of course, I fully and wholeheartedly support what my fellow Members have already said. The leaks in these are a disgrace. In the case of a leak, one must always ask who benefits from it. That gives me some ideas, but such leaks remain a disgrace and even more destroy the image of defence and the functioning of our Parliament. I sincerely hope that further research will be carried out. As I said, there have been absolutely new elements in the report, but it confirms what we actually knew. A combination of factors has led to an incident of this magnitude. The seeds of these factors have been planted for several years, perhaps even a few decades ago. So this is a collective responsibility of all of us. We have to admit that honestly, I think. I just saw a ping-pong game between some people and people who didn't seem to be on a parliamentary committee, but rather in some sort of personal therapeutic session. I regret that. It is important that we admit, above all, that this is a collective responsibility. The lack of communication, lack of flow, lack of staff, lack of resources, such as ICT resources, is a collective responsibility. We are beyond the stage of asking what exactly happened, how it is possible that Mr Conings could have been so violent, that he stole those weapons, that he was not better followed. I think we've learned enough about these things by now. It is more interesting to move on to actions now. It is not the most recent reports on the story of Mr Conings that should have prompted us to take action. A number of colleagues have quite rightly said that this has been going on for years. A number of reports have been cited in recent years alone. Now that's in writing again. It must now be done with analyses, with questions about what exactly happened. It's time for action now. The report has made a whole series of recommendations. Some go in the right direction, some are quite self-evident and should have been carried out already. I very much appreciated in the Minister's introduction that she said clearly that she would come forward with a policy plan by the end of 2021. It is quite clear that there must be a number of things in there. The Minister has gone over all that. Firstly, what is important to me is, of course, more staff. This also applies to my group, because I am speaking not only on my own behalf but also on behalf of my group. Of course, more staff is important. However, we must not fall into the trap of simply considering more staff as the solution. That's not the only solution. There are also many other things that are needed in addition to the additional recruitment and screening. I have repeatedly indicated that recruitment and screening are inextricably linked. More staff is, of course, not the only solution. Secondly, the assignments must be prioritised. I absolutely agree with the Minister, Thirdly, very important is the pain of years. We have to abort the silos. Every time we talk about the ADIV, we talk about silos, which are silos between citizens and soldiers, but also between the ADIV and the VSSE or State Security. Those silos must now be demolished once and for all in a serious but firm manner. Fourthly, all forms of extremism must be curbed and followed. I am somewhat disturbed by the link that some people make with Flemish nationalism. I am not a Flemish nationalist myself, but of course it is not possible, as has been stated several times here in the committee, for people to be persecuted, bullied or chased because of their Flemish nationalist beliefs, if they express them correctly. That's definitely a bridge too far. We'll watch over that, too. Fifth, the psychosocial follow-up needs to be improved. I don't know if the Minister referred to my resolution. I have tabled a motion for a resolution for a better follow-up of the mental well-being of the military. We must also make serious work of this. In the past, the idea of a cooldown after an operation was already ridiculed by some journalists. I think it is now time to break those taboos and take action. Finally, we need to achieve a better demarcation of powers between ADIV and State Security. Let me give you an example of a military that is becoming increasingly extremist in its views. Now that soldier, like every citizen, ends his work day at night and goes back home, where he radicalizes in the private sphere by friends or by giving himself private in certain circles. Does the military have to be followed by the ADIV? I ask myself the question, as some do. It would perhaps be more interesting for the State's security to assume that role in such cases, also because the State's security may already have eyes and ears in the circles in which the military moves and is already conducting an investigation there. Those silos need to be demolished and we need to move towards a better division of roles between state security and ADIV. Madam Secretary, I'm finishing up. You've set the deadline yourself. Your assignment in this one is a priority. Right now, I don't want to be in your shoes. After all, you have many priorities, such as the Conings case, the Strategic Vision and the staff and budget challenges. I think that is absolutely a priority. You have our support. I think you have been ambitious in your objectives. Now we would like to see action. We owe this to our society and to our citizens, who have to see that our security is not in good hands and that it is not being followed up with rigour. We also owe it to the 25,000 soldiers, who are working every day and have recently been confronted with misery with the fire in Brecht, to get the best out of the can and to take action.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic537x.u14	Mr Pillen, you mentioned the breach of secrecy and leaks. That is certainly not the responsibility of the ordinary members of the Defence Commission, because they could only see the report this morning. You claim to have some ideas as to where the leak came from. I suggest that you discuss this with the President of Parliament and inform her so that she can take appropriate action.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic537x.u15	No, Mr President, in the event of a leak, we must always ask ourselves who benefits from it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic537x.u16	But you said you had an idea where the leak came from...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic537x.u17	It seems clear to me what direction to look for, but I share your view at 100% that this time it is not from a parliamentary point of view, because we simply did not have the texts in committee yet. To my great pleasure and at the same time my great frustration even my colleague, who is a member of the Committee I, did not want to share the texts with me. Honor to whom credit is due, I thought that was strong of him. So the leak didn't come from our committee, which makes sense.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic537x.u18	Madam Minister, thank you for your briefing on this report of the R Committee, in particular, and in general on the state of the situation. It is true that this report will be a landmark. I have been a parliamentarian for a number of years. I've been following these security and intelligence issues for almost a decade. I must admit that I think I have never read a report as overwhelming, as tragically disturbing, as the one just handed over to us regarding the situation of the military intelligence service, but not only. As many colleagues have already said, we have the impression that not much has been retained from the past. That would be a little unfair because I think work has been done. At the same time, however, we sometimes have the impression that, in some respects, the situation has worsened, whether in terms of personnel, the availability of such personnel, the qualifications of such personnel, the exchange of information, the processing of information, the taking of certain threats seriously. The observation is now overwhelming, so overwhelming that it even calls into question the future of this intelligence service. Some have mentioned it in half a word. It is also half-worded in the recommendations, although there are contradictions in the report on this subject. In any case, it is a question that must be asked. That would be kind of my first question, my first thought. I have the impression that there is confusion about the method to be used for the future. You're setting out an action plan. I can understand that the minister you are wishes to put in place an action plan. At the same time, the recommendations of Committee R refer to the need for a debate, including at the societal level - but it would already be good to hold a parliamentary debate - on the future and the tasks of our intelligence services. He even recommended that the military intelligence service should be reduced to the congruent portion, pending their eventual reinflating in a second phase. For my part, I call for this debate. We can no longer pretend disdainfully that two services exist, that it has always been so, and that this coexistence brings added value, because it seems less and less to me. Rather, I see how much we are facing serious and persistent problems, despite the very important recommendations and work that have been done in Parliament, but also in the SGRS. We must be right: attempts to improve things have been made there, but to no avail so far. The structure seems very difficult to read and is even incomprehensible. In addition, information does not circulate internally. As we have seen with regard to security clearances, it is a service that takes care of it; for the follow-up of extremists, it is another. We don't talk when it comes to renewing the security clearance of certain people. My first question, Minister, is how we will work. The debate on the structure and architecture - as we would have said a few years ago - of our intelligence services cannot be put on the sidelines. I'd like us to organize it first. There is a real need to demonstrate - and I have never been shown - the added value of a military intelligence service. I am not saying that we do not need such information, but why would two services be required? This contribution remains to be demonstrated. On the contrary, we now see that information does not circulate from the Security Service to the Military Intelligence Service, and vice versa - to mention only these two bodies, because we know that difficulties are present elsewhere. This is not a criticism but a request for clarification of how this debate will be conducted. I would not like us to go head down in the idea of making a good plan for the SGRS, but without addressing this preliminary question which I believe is indispensable for the future. It seems important to me to avoid this confusion. Secondly, I would like to address responsibilities in the political hierarchy and responsibilities. As we can see today, unlike the information released a few weeks ago, it is not just one person responsible who would have done his job badly. This may have existed, but it is really a responsibility of the entire hierarchy - as has been said in the report - and a political responsibility. We can talk about the past and we'd be right, because we know it. But I don't do political archaeology. I perform a parliamentary oversight function over the current government and the work currently being done by the executive. As such, I see that there are today important responsibilities in the hierarchy and political responsibilities that must be taken into account. I'm not asking for anyone's head, it's not my habit. But I think it must be assumed that the current situation is unprecedented in terms of gravity. As I have already said, it deserves very rapid action on methodology. As far as Parliament's function is concerned, I deeply regret that it has not taken action on the recommendations of the Terrorist Attacks Commission. They remain to be implemented. In fact, this is highlighted in the report of the R Committee, which calls for Parliament not only to deal with these issues in the event of a crisis, but also to deal with them regularly and throughout parliamentary activity. There is also parliamentary work to be done. Whether at the executive level or at the parliamentary level, I ask for clarification on how we are going to work. I hear that we are calling for hearings in the Defence Committee, but we also have work in the P and R Committees' follow-up committee. I do not want to have hearings everywhere, I hope that there will be a Parliament which is coordinated through this Monitoring Committee and which the government responds to with the actions it intends to carry out and has a real parliamentary debate on the issues of strategic direction and intelligence policy. Through the intelligence services that are in the situation today described by the R Committee, there is an extremely high vulnerability of the country. I'm worried about this vulnerability. Our population is not sufficiently secure in the face of threats: today, the far right, yesterday, Islamist radicalism. As parliamentarians, we must ensure that we work effectively on these issues. We must also put the means in it, even if it is not just a question of means. It is also a matter of commitment, efficiency and priority. I would also like to note the fact that we were lied to when we were told that at the SGRS, action had been taken and proposed on 15 February last with regard to Jürgen Conings and that this action could not be carried out because of another more priority action. In fact, this is not an acceptable justification. Indeed, we do not know what threat it was. On the other hand, it is now known that there was only one level 3 threat and that this other investigation started only in May. Between February and May, nothing happened to Jürgen Conings. This, therefore, could not be a justification for doing nothing against him. I therefore ask for clarification on this point. Why have we been told this fable that doesn't hold the road? Why has the SGRS never carried out this investigation with respect to Jürgen Conings? Parliament has the right to the truth in this area in particular. One thing makes me uncomfortable. I want to talk about your level of knowledge and information, Minister, as well as the level of information in the SGRS hierarchy. On page 30 of the report, it is said that the head of the SGRS received a monthly briefing on the operations launched, including those aimed at Jürgen Conings, and that you also received a briefing on 22 March, but that it is not clear what was said about it. I would like to know exactly what information has been provided to you, but also what information has been provided to the boss of the SGRS. I was told that Operation Conings had been mentioned during these briefings. I would therefore like to know whether that has indeed been the case. It is nevertheless surprising that there is no certainty as to the information that has been disseminated on these occasions. I do not understand very well how meetings can be held to discuss certain cases and ongoing operations. Obviously, there was only one level 3 operation of the threat and about which some basic information did not circulate. I would therefore like clarification on this point. I come to my last question, which may seem a little tricky. Minister, have you been aware of this report before Parliament? Did you get the chance to read it again? Did you make any comments? Has the said report been amended as a result of these remarks? Some information is difficult to interpret. They are even sometimes contradictory, especially on the point I have just mentioned. In short, I would like to know why this report lacks so much clarity about information that has been shared at the level of the Defence hierarchy and your cabinet.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic537x.u19	No other speakers have been registered. I would now like to suspend the sitting for three minutes, a small technical interruption.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic537x.u20	First the chief of staff will take the floor, then the minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic537x.u21	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as last time, I must also admit that the reading of the report was not a pleasant time, far from it. The report is, in fact, particularly overwhelming. I can only repeat what I had already said. We have, within Defence and the SGRS department, made mistakes, errors, and there are malfunctions. We can only recognize it. Have we, for so many years, neglected all the audit reports of successive R Committees? This probably happened in an incomplete or unsatisfactory manner. In 2018, this audit led to the development of an action plan that already covered human resources issues, infrastructure, IT infrastructure, communication systems and probably all kinds of other areas. That report was used and presented to the Committee's Follow-up Committee twice. At that time, the ADIV already explained the structure that the service would develop. The progress of this report was also set out a year later, in 2020, for the follow-up committee of the Committee I. So saying that we have done nothing at all is a bridge too far. The fact that we have not done enough is probably close to reality, but there are certain circumstances that have prevented us from progressing at the speed we wanted. Due to the covid pandemic, we could not go any further in 2021. The pandemic is probably also at the root of many delays in the improvement measures that we wanted to replace, including explaining to people the structure in which they should work, how the processes should proceed, the development of SOPs and so on. I think it would be wrong to say that nothing has happened in all this time and with all these reports. We began the transformation of the SMSS on January 1, 2020. We have made efforts at the personnel level, as despite the downsizing throughout Defence, in recent years the SRMS, the intelligence service, has been able to increase its strength relatively. He did not do it properly again, but it was one of the only departments within Defence that saw its staff increase as all other departments within Defence saw their staff decrease. Change brings uncertainty. This is something typical of all organizations and is not, of course, conducive to rapid and efficient transformation. Also in the past 10 or 15 years before last year, the ADIV only came in the news with the storms that the service was going through. Not for nothing have we had 4 or 5 different directors in a little 10 years. It shows that there have been many problems within the service and that we have failed to ensure the continuity of the command, which is indispensable in an important service such as the ADIV. Nor can it be denied that over the last two to three years a whole series of interpersonal relations, including between civilians and soldiers, have ensured that the working environment within the ADIV was far from optimal. That is one of the reasons why I personally asked General Boucké in September 2020 if he was ready to take on the challenge and to regenerate, transform, improve the ADIV with me. It is a fact that we are both surprised every day by the seriousness and size of the challenges we face. We have a huge task ahead of us, but certainly General Boucké has accepted the task and has begun it immediately. In recent months, he's made important decisions. It's about creating quality people in important functions, trying to make progress in the transformation by starting processes, and so on. He has actively worked on building or strengthening bridges to the other security services within and outside our country. In my opinion, he has invested all his energy in it, until the moment Jürgen Conings came on our way, with the widespread consequences. I will not go back to the plan of action, because it is currently being worked on. Together with the minister, we have developed an action plan. We have structured it, reorganized it, put the right priorities in it. This action plan confirms a series of initiatives that have already been taken in the past. It complemented the plans and initiatives that existed, with the new recommendations that have emerged in the meantime in both reports, namely, the report of the Inspectorate General and the report of the R Committee. I believe that the priority for the plan of action must indeed be to develop the policy plan first and foremost. This must be done as a matter of priority and with great urgency. Synergies within and outside the ADIV must also be replaced and further developed. Better cooperation with the Security of the State is also important. But we certainly also need to provide quality staff. With respect to personnel management, I have committed not only to the Minister, but also to the Director of the SGRS, to strengthening her service. In my last visit to this committee, I stressed that this should not be done at the expense of the entire organization, because this risk is very real. We must therefore work in the most controlled way possible, in order to meet the objectives we want to achieve through the action plan. We will therefore strengthen the SGRS. The recommendations on continuity, stability, knowledge management, staff skills, etc., I recognize them just as much as the members of the R Committee and the General Inspectorate. We will apply them as much as possible. Moreover, these are not just problems specific to the SMS; I think they are present throughout Defence. At ADIV, there is a specific personnel problem that we would like to look at more closely, in particular the recruitment and functioning of citizens within the Defence Department. The statutes of the citizens of the Defence Department and, above all, ADIV are different from the status of the military. The cooperation and society of the citizens and the military within ADIV have already caused quite some fuss in the recent past. It is very difficult for the Defense Department to tackle the civilian workforce in a flexible manner. The procedures currently in place in the field of recruitment, selection and placement are far too long and too cumbersome. With Selor's procedures, recruitment alone takes six months to find the right person and then six to twelve months to give that person his security clearance. This is far too long to allow flexible management of staff. Of course, we have more control over the military. I am committed to making the necessary efforts in this area, but there are still a number of obstacles to be overcome if ADIV is to be able to manage the staff of citizens flexibly. With regard to social support, which is regularly reflected in the comments and recommendations, the Minister has already detailed the broad lines of action that we want to implement. Many instruments and initiatives are already in place. Is that enough? Probably not. We need to work even more closely with the military and narrow the gap between the awareness of a psychological problem in a person and the fact that the person goes to the doctor or psychologist to receive a listening. We need to work on these aspects, which should be stronger than we are today, and here too we will need staff to strengthen this psychosocial support. However, I am quite confident because we are working on an existing basis that needs to be deepened, improved and developed. The development of a policy against extremism requires a high priority. We have to admit that. This is also reflected in the recommendations. We'll be sure to follow that. We have already contacted, for example, our German colleagues. The problem of extremism in German soldiers was particularly acute. We can also get inspiration there. We also found inspiration with the federal police. We have contacted the federal police and we have found certain initiatives and ideas internally or within NATO. We didn't wait for Jürgen Conings to take action and initiative. Those contacts already existed. The policy will have to develop both a preventive part and a corrective and a curative part. For everything, certain projects and initiatives will have to be taken. This is also about leadership, recognition of behavior and the organisational culture that we need to work on. In the corrective section it is about the disciplinary regulations, which we are already working on. These are three major areas for which we are developing the plan of action. The plan of action should be further developed in the future. Together with ADIV and the director of ADIV, we recognise many of the recommendations contained in the Committee I report. We recognise the need to improve the understanding of the structure of staff. In certain services there will have to be a certain reorganization. We need to work on the flow of information. We are open to any guidance from an external service that can accompany this transformation wherever necessary. We are also open to identifying citizens as senior officials. We are therefore certainly open to many of the recommendations contained in the Committee I report, and we are also open to recommendations from previous reports. There will be absolutely no resistance from a military angle. We need to work on a cultural change. We need to work on cultural change. I am hurt enough by the doubts expressed today about the quality of the work, the quality of the staff, the professionalism of the staff. It's a perception that I can't counter, except by continuing to work very hard. We recognize within Defence, and probably even more so within the SMS, that cultural change is necessary. This change in culture is under way, but it will naturally take as long as it takes. I think that this too is a question of attitude, of a very concrete project, of communication, etc. It is a process that is not only underway within Defence, but is also essential within the SMS. For the (...), the most important thing is probably to bring the means and the missions in line. We need to coordinate resources and tasks so that we can not only carry out the tasks or missions of the ADIV, but also know what we cannot or will not do anymore, even if it is temporary. This is an important item that applies to the ADIV and to the rest of the Defense Department. That's what I take in my duties. I now turn to the various interventions. First of all, the incident that's related to the news this morning, I regret to confirm. It has been corrected for some time now, but I do have to confirm that the person in question, who was not on the extremist list of ten or twelve, but who was on another list, has waited twice. That's straightened out. However, I wanted to confirm it. We can start leak investigations. The experience of recent years with leaks and leaks gives me regrettably little hope to give an unambiguous answer. We can certainly take action in this area. As regards the adjustment of the structure, I can give you the following. I could still mention the suggestion to merge the SSRS with the State Security. It's an idea that appears regularly. The added value of a military intelligence service in support of military operations is absolutely essential. The purpose of the military intelligence service is to scan the horizon with its radar to assess external factors that could impact the security of the country or impact the protection of our troops deployed in operations. This is an indispensable task that needs to be maintained for the SGRS, and it is probably one of its main tasks. It is obvious that there are also tasks in relation to what is called the Counter Intelligence where we have to do the part of things between what we could bring and what the State Security and the OCAM could bring. I sincerely believe that merging two intelligence services would weaken Belgium's intelligence position vis-à-vis other countries. All countries have two different intelligence services and I am not sure that the external military intelligence services would be fond of sharing information essential to our security with a service they are no longer sure of the exploitation they could make of it. As for the second operation or the lie about Jürgen Conings – I don't know if it's a lie – the operation that was going on on on Jürgen Conings has always continued. The only thing that has not been done is the implementation of specific research measures. The only thing that hasn't been done at the time is the special intelligence methods. That is what led to confusion in the reading of the various reports. Finally, I would also like to say something about responsibilities. As Chief of Defense, I'm responsible for my entire department. This includes what happens within ADIV. It is a challenge that I adopted in June 2020, for which I will continue to work as long as I can, regardless of the size or size of the challenge. With respect specifically to the situation of the SMS, as this is my responsibility, I am committed to strengthening the SMS so that it can improve its organization, structure and processes. This is a commitment I made not only to the Director of the SGRS, but also to the Minister. The Head of the SGRS is naturally responsible for the proper functioning of his service. When he took over the torch in September last year, I am not sure that he was fully aware of the problems he was going to face. However, I trust the way he invests every day to try to improve his service. In my view, the most important thing today is that we can come, in consultation with the Minister, with the Director of the SGRS, with you, to an agreement on the action plan, on the management plan of the SGRS and on how we want to achieve the objectives set in a timely manner. It is very important for me today that we agree together on the plan that we want to develop for the future of the ADIV, that we can agree on the level of ambition that will be translated into the ADIV's policy plan, in order to ultimately ensure that we no longer experience situations as we have known in recent weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic537x.u22	A lot has already been said. I'm going to try again but I see that our friend from the PTB is no longer here to hear the answer, unfortunately, unless he's online. He asked me about the structural dimension. I said this from the beginning: specific but also structural mistakes have been made. Yes, there is a structural problem within the SGRS. Yes, I think that in society in general there is a banality of extremism and that clearly here in Defence there was no comprehensive approach, particularly with regard to extremism and racism. That is what needs to be done. I say it loud and clear: there is no room for extremists, there is no room for racists in the Defence, since the honourable Member's question was whether there was an acceptance. There's absolutely no one on this side. Yes, we need a profound change. I think I said it in my presentation. We need a transformation of the structure. I can assure you - I don't know who said it anymore - that I do anything but "close my eyes". I am really determined to make this necessary profound change with the staff. There will be initiatives in the coming weeks to review the functioning of the service. With regard to the plan of action, there was, first of all, an immediate action, once the case broke out, which consisted, as a precautionary measure, of excluding from all deposits of arms and ammunition and any sensitive information persons who had spoken, committed acts or made calls to violence. Once again, I insist, it is not a question of "hunting the witches" or of "hunting the Flemishs", expressions which some repeat while rejoicing at the clarity provided. I assure you that I am upset because I find it unfair and that it is totally contrary to what I want. I am attached to my country. I am attached to the Defence, which is the symbol of this unity of the country. I would have been accused of not taking precautionary measures if nothing had been done. So people were excluded as a preventive measure, without knowing whether they were Flemish or Walloons, which I am not interested in at all. Today we're talking about about ten out of 25,000 people. So this is not a hunt for anything, nor for anyone. These people have been ruled out. In the coming days, the Chief of Defence will come back to me with a more in-depth analysis of these people. Some people, when there is no proven threat, will be given their security clearance and, for those who pose a threat, disciplinary procedures will obviously be introduced. That's it for the moment. Here, for the SMS itself, we are working on a short-term action plan and a longer-term one. As far as the timetable is concerned, we are about the end of 2021 for the short-term action plan, while knowing that, as I had already told you at our last meeting at the end of the Inspector General's report, there is a lot of work that is already being done at the Defence level with the unions for everything that is screening, security clearance, disciplinary procedure, standards and values. All this is under way and will also be completed as soon as possible according to the various files, without easing. It is important that there be such a concerted effort. We care a lot about it. The longer-term action plan is a multi-year action plan. It is not a question of making action plans and turning around the pot. Since I've been in place, I think I've always been direct and always acted directly. I'm someone who likes to go to action. That is the objective of this action plan. This is not an umpteenth strategic plan or anything. As you said, we need action. I am also pleased that most of us will join me in this work that we will carry out without delay. What action plans? Today, it must be noted that there was not yet a plan at the SMS level and that there was no clear priority. So we were trying to do a little bit of everything we could do. And that, as the CHOD often tells me, is a bit like the Defence. The Defence always tries to respond to all demands, sometimes even without having all of its resources. It's part of his DNA. In this case, it was a bit of that too. But this is over! At some point, priorities are defined. Means are given to do so, and if this is not possible, then these priorities are not chosen. You have to be very clear and stop doing everything without having the means to do everything. It seems to me to be obvious. But it's good to say it again. As far as the multi-year plan is concerned, as I said earlier, we are on 2022. But, as I said, before that, there will be this concrete action plan. This is my responsibility. We agree. My responsibility is to make sure that everything is put in place so that there is no other drama like the one we have known today. So I've been active since I took office. And since this case, maybe even more, if it were possible to do so, to rebuild our defense. You've been asking for it several times. My briefing of 22 March focused on the methods used in operations and not on the specific details of operations. At no time did I say, and I repeat, the name of Conings was not mentioned, either at home or in my office. This 22nd March, there was an explanation of the methods used in the operations, but not of the people in particular. I hear some say that this is not very clear; in the report, on page 30, it is quite clear: "Neither of the two briefings by the Minister or the Chief of the SGRS was mentioned that one of these soldiers was included in the database and was placed at Level 3. The command of the SGRS was not himself aware." If you don't believe me, two reports indicate that. Have I been aware of the report before Parliament? No! I have received the report together with the members who are involved in the committee's follow-up. It was last Friday. No, Thursday at the end of the day. I read about it on Friday.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic537x.u23	Indeed, it was delivered to the committee members of the advisory committee on Thursday in the later afternoon.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic537x.u24	The question was, did you have a right of look or something? Absolutely not! I don't think I've forgotten anything. We've coordinated each other.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic537x.u25	Mr Chief of Staff, Madam Secretary, thank you for the answers. Colleagues who wish to do so will be given the floor for a reply. I would ask colleagues to keep the reply not too comprehensive, but very concise.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic537x.u26	I will certainly try to do so, Mr President. Chief of Staff, Madam Secretary, thank you very much for your answers, although I am still a little hungry. Firstly, I will question the Minister of Civil Service about the Selor procedures for citizens in the Defense Department and in particular ADIV. In the meantime, that question has been drawn up by my staff and will be submitted. Madam Secretary, second, you confirm the story that is in the Latest News today and say that intervention has taken place in the meantime. The person concerned was not on the list mentioned today, but on another list. How many lists are there, anyway? Is there a motorcycle club list or motorcycle gang list? Interesting, too. That list must therefore be looked at urgently, because it is also evident that things are going wrong. We will certainly follow that. There's an extremist list and a motorcycle club list. Motorclub members aren't extremists, but they're dangerous, I suppose. I know a lot of soldiers with a bike. Here at the Parliament building there are several bikes, several beautiful. I'm curious. Mr Admiral, you say that an internal investigation can indeed be started, but you say that the past teaches you that it is not very successful. Honestly, I don't entirely agree with that. As a reminder, I would like to mention a dossier which you can ask for or which you may still have at your disposal, because you have much more experience than I do. I remember a file a few years ago from a major who had gone completely crazy in a German base camp in Afghanistan. Among other things, he waved his gun and the situation got completely out of hand. He was required to be repatriated and he was severely punished, I think he was even fired from the Defense Department. I released that story and then went behind my source like they were bloodhounds. Eventually, my source was severely sanctioned within the Defense Department. You say that you can sometimes check who organized the leak, for example, on Jürgen Conings' personal file, but you continue to express yourself on a conditional basis. That research could, but it has not yet been decided, you will think again, but experience has shown that such studies do not have much effect. I will therefore give you a very concrete example of something that I myself brought to the newspaper because I was informed about it from a leak within the Ministry of Defence and for which the person concerned was severely sanctioned. That's weird, isn't it? So allow me to repeat my question that an investigation is being launched within the Ministry of Defence. Not "we can do that," but "we do that." I ask that you confirm today that you will do so and that this is taken seriously. In connection with leaks and press, there are many examples, not only within the Ministry of Defence, where the leaks are indeed found, and also punished. I think, above all, that you should give an example. I certainly will not be the first to defend the Minister, but there is nothing as miserable as leaks in the press from within your administration or from within your security device. That's gonna make people crazy. Then people simply stop sleeping, because they have to expect every day: ooh, what will come up now; what should I react to now; what fire should I put out again in Parliament? Of course, the damn opposition enjoys it when a lot of leaks are leaked. That's obvious. Of course, that is what people enjoy when they get nice information as an opposition member. I really believe that it is necessary for you to give a very clear signal: the leaking of personal information, even if someone has been derailed, even if it is someone who no longer belongs within the Defense Department, and who may never have belonged there, that is not possible. Again, would you like it? Of course you don't like it when it comes to you, if you have psychological problems yourself. It may be a punitive example that I mention now. I believe that we agree that this is an absolute red line. Peu imported about who it's about. Today it's happening again. Let's talk about the military. His data is also integral in Het Laatste Nieuws. Which club he's a member of, what his unit is, that's all in there. The colonel is called by name. The military is still mentioned with initials, but his superior is simply standing there with his full name in it. With his full name! We're talking about defense here. These people may soon be deployed against international terrorists or against whom I know which groupuscules are very bad for and have links with Belgium. Those who speak Dutch, and who can also read a newspaper in Dutch. Because jihadism and international terrorism are thriving today. Just integral. The reporter's not gonna get the hang of it. It's all left that way. Really, I'm saying it from a deep concern, make sure it stops leaking. This is not about details, but it is about personal data, it is about very important points. I am even speaking to my own shop, because the more your services leak, the more I can denounce things in Parliament. So I'm gonna let them leak. As long as I'm not in the government myself. If I'm in the government myself, they should keep their mouths shut. It doesn't work like that, of course they always have to keep their mouths shut. There are also internal audits, there are also internal ways to report. Whistleblowers, and I don't know which systems in case something goes wrong. Finally, there are two other points that I have noticed. If I understand correctly, out of the ten or twelve people on the extremist list, security clearance or arms clearance was immediately withdrawn. Some of those people appeal, and you're expecting a report from the CHOD right now. Some will definitely go out and others may be rehabilitated. You were talking about rehabilitation. I understand that word, don't I? Was there some kind of panic football? In the meantime, I've had or seen some of those people on the phone. You take away these people's security clearance and then you suddenly find that you have nothing at all and that you will legally go off like a watering machine. Indeed, elements from a very long time ago are being used which are no longer relevant, recent or interesting. Now you say that a number of people may be rehabilitated after all. Are you going to give that security clearance back before there's a legal ruling from a higher government? In that case, I find what these people and their families have been going through extremely painful for a month. They certainly have a point when they ask for compensation for the image damage they have suffered and for the moral and financial loss. I would have liked to have had some clarity about that. Furthermore, you say that the report says literally, on page 30, that you were not informed of the name of Conings during that briefing. That name didn't fall there. That's right, but I'm quoting page 10 of the report. It says: "There is uncertainty within the ADIV as to what information should be communicated to the CO and the Minister of Defence in what manner and at what time. The investigation shows that although there was a briefing on ongoing operations, it was not clear whether the name Conings was explicitly mentioned." That's what the report says, so allow me to ask you some questions. Why doesn't it say much more clearly that this wasn't the case? So you formally confirm that, like the people of your cabinet, you have never heard this name before it went so wrong over a month ago. I'll take note of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic537x.u27	Madam Minister, Admiral, thank you for your answers. I'm not sure I understand. Did I hear Mr. Franken say that he had disseminated information about a soldier who had had mental problems in operation? If I was wrong, I apologize, but if that is the case, I find it quite ironic in relation to what he has just said, that we must protect the medical records of our military. But maybe I misunderstood!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic537x.u28	Mr President, I would like to take the floor for a personal statement. You have completely misunderstood, Mr Defossé, but that may be due to Dutch. I certainly never leaked personal files on the psychosocial condition of military personnel. It was about an incident in a barracks in Afghanistan, in one of our compounds in Afghanistan where it went wrong. I was not aware of anything else, but later in the investigation it became clear that there was more to it. However, you can look it all up. It also dates back about ten years ago.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic537x.u29	Mr Franken, thank you for that clarification. I wasn't sure I understood you well, but maybe it's a question of language. Excuse me. I won't be much longer, since it's already late. Minister, I know you have important challenges to face. We all know that. You and CHOD are well aware of this. Like others, I would like to hear from the boss of the SGRS to ensure that he is also aware of this and that he can come to define his responsibility in the Conings case. We'll have to hear it as soon as possible, before the summer holidays. On the other hand, Minister, I understand that this action plan is ambitious. That's right. In committee, we will closely monitor its development. In any case, I hope that we will never again live an episode like the one we've been seeing for two months. From now on, Madam Minister, it is your responsibility. The whole commission is aware of this. I will not go any further, to allow colleagues to also reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic537x.u30	Admiral Hofman, that was a very comprehensive answer, thank you for that. There is, of course, a lot to say. At some point, you have cited the corona pandemic as a delaying factor in a number of procedures. I fully understand that, but that seems to me to be a very small proportion of the major structural problems in the ADIV and in the case of expansion in the defence sector. You also say that the ADIV and General Boucké have already been able to do a great deal. We look forward to the plan of action, as well as the plan that the Minister will propose by the end of this year. At the moment that is still a work in progress. At some point you are talking about the need for qualitative recruitment for the ADIV. That's right. I really do not want to be pessimistic or fatalistic, but that seems difficult to me if we want to attract motivated forces for an organisation that is not on the verge of being. So I guess we shouldn't put the cart in front of the horse, but we should do the other way around. The focus must first be on the problems. Interpersonal relationships in the field also cause problems. I was just talking about baronies. I think that term is not exaggerated in certain situations. Of course, you do not need to confirm this, but I think everyone who is active on the ground knows that there is a certain power struggle between people. In that respect, we are not yet at the new fries, as they say. I think you still have a lot of work to do with these challenges. As far as the need for psychological support for military personnel during their career is concerned, the Minister has given a very comprehensive answer. However, you cannot deny that there is actually too reactive reaction on the ground, despite the extensive offer in this area. The bottom line is, the military needs to get help. Sometimes that makes sense. In any case, there is little interaction between the welfare board and the military. There is too reactive, too general and too non-binding. I have spoken with a number of people in recent months who complain about the lack of structural aid. No matter how well-meant, without any doubt, the alarm has been ringing in that area for years. I urge you to add to that. That is why I tabled my motion of recommendation. I hope you really take it to heart. The majority will not support them, I have already heard, but I think there are really good recommendations in it. Hopefully these will be taken into account in the short term. I will leave it at that for the time being, Mr President, but I look forward to the follow-up.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic537x.u31	Admiral Hofman, I would like to tell you that in this commission – especially for the oldest – our commitment to defence is very strong. So I understand yours naturally. You tell us you're hurt, but we're hurt, too. At the same time, as Vice-Chairman of the Committees R and P's Committees, we cannot consider that the terms cited and used in the report – in particular, lack of professionalism – reflect a perception. In our view, as long as these terms are in the report, they are facts. But I understand the difficulty and the pain. You're taking shape with your men, and I thank you for that. Listening to your presentation, you are still planning on the reform that we are going to have to carry under the authority of the minister. However, given the report that has just fallen, we are at the stage of taking responsibility before we are in the stage of reform. If such mistakes had been made in the private sector or in another European country, we should leave. It's just a fact. Defence embodies the meaning of the state and service to the nation. That is also why we, together with other colleagues, are very attached to the Defence. Better defending the nation, however, means that responsibilities are assumed. At this point, I have heard of disciplinary proceedings in the head of the minister. But if I understand correctly, these are aimed at radical military personnel.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic537x.u32	Not that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic537x.u33	At least you're making an important clarification. Are you talking about disciplinary procedures that also target many people who have demonstrated shortcomings and incompetence in the case we are talking about?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic537x.u34	There, you were talking about the ten people who had been removed preventively. For the rest, as I say from the beginning, if mistakes are proven, we will apply the necessary sanctions. I believe I have said that in the coming weeks we will review the functioning of the structure and learn from it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic537x.u35	All right. Thank you. It was good that you repeated it so that it was clear. We are faced with two times: the time of responsibility and the time of reform. Where I'm really going to join the CHOD, and I'll be brief, Mr. Chairman, is the need to keep a military intelligence service: we need to save the SGRS soldier. I am convinced of this, also for international reasons. It is clear that the military intelligence services have a way of working, but, you are convinced as I am, this is the last chance. If other problems arise, those who like me can still defend the SGRS will be put in a minority compared to those who propose the merger. I'll finish with the action plan. We haven't seen him yet. We will want to be clear tomorrow with regard to the elements of reform. There are two points on which we will insist in the forthcoming discussions. There will be a meeting of Committee R and Committee P on Wednesday. The Committee R, which is a service of the House, must be involved in the preparation of the reform. It is also essential, as pointed out in the report of the R Committee, that the first reforms to be incorporated into the plan are aimed at the implementation of the recommendations of the Attentats Commission. In fact, the majority of the recommendations that addressed the SMS were not met.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic537x.u36	Mr President, I will also speak out. I still have to go swimming in the new pool FLOW in Anderlecht. Mr Francken, it's a man's hour tonight, for everyone who's tired of looking at our streamlined bodies. That was a close call. (Laughter in committee) We're in a war situation, not in that pool area, but here. This situation must be rectified as soon as possible. Suppose you run a canning plant with three people and the beans come in from the field. Everything has to be turned around and on the other hand cans have to roll off the belt. Normally there are 300 employees working in the factory, but you have to run the factory with three people, not one or two, but three. Then it makes sense that everything goes wrong operationally. I'll draw a parallel with this. One can then be angry with those people and conduct a disciplinary investigation and wonder why there is such chaos and there is not delivered in time, but one is with three when one should be at 300. If we are to achieve results, we must use sufficient resources. Mr. Chief of Staff, Madam Secretary, you now have a boulevard of space to ask, given what happened. You must make a clever plan of action, come here and say that you will need so many million euros to put that right. I hear you saying that you cannot get people from elsewhere, because otherwise you will have a problem there. You must avoid closing a hole in the dike by making another hole. You will be personally involved, the minister will get involved, the cabinet will get involved. In my opinion, what you really need to do is to draw up an action plan and say how many million euros you will need to put that right. The majority and opposition will approve it and Parliament will give it to you. If you say in good faith that's what you need, then we have to go for it. However, there must be speed in the action, you must have courage and do it. As Secretary of State, I was also responsible for Selor. You need to contact Selor and make it clear that it's a war situation and that you need the people now, not in six months plus five months before the clearance. You have to tell me you'll need the people within a month. It's possible. With me that was then with Marc Van Hemelrijck, a fantastic man, to whom I could say that I immediately needed 15 IT people, on which he swam through all the procedures and provided us with 15 employees. Where there is a will, there is a way, and Parliament will give you the power to do so. So I call on you to take the matter seriously. You have gained sufficient operational experience in your life, otherwise you wouldn't be in the seat you're sitting on. You have the sympathy and enthusiasm of the whole Parliament to do so, but I do think you should do it quickly. I would like to express my solidarity with you for the present misery, but I do not want to be an accomplice if it repeats itself several times. That would also make a hole in the majority here and there. I want to make that very clear. I would go very quickly now, ask for money and solve the problem immediately. Isn't there a merger? Then don't do a merger. Is Selor too loggy? Ask the Minister to consult. If necessary, go to the Council of Ministers and have everyone sign it so that it can move forward. I think that's necessary. I read a cry of despair between the lines here and there, if I may describe it as such. If there's staff going to one shift, there's not enough staff on another shift. We're not gonna get there with the art and flying. Whether that is called Belgian or Flemish, I don't care, but with that craftsmanship it won't work. You just have to be honest and say that you are short of money and that you need money. If you do not want to come to Parliament twice or three times with a similar case, then you should simply go for it. That's the call I want to make here. Success.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic537x.u37	Mr President, Mr Ducrame was talking about responsibilities and he is right. I think this is the first time that I have mentioned this kind of thing because we have been repeating the same recommendations for years: I have the feeling that Parliament has been rolled into flour in this history. And the R Committee too! He states in his report that certain information is not systematically transmitted to him by the SGRS, which had already been known in the past. It is a legal obligation and there could be criminal prosecution. We need to put this on the table and move beyond recommendations or plans. At some point, some – and very few of them – need to know that we must stop rolling Parliament, the R Committee and the institutions in general in flour! It is important, in democracy, in a rule of law, to respect all institutions. We have a democratic role to play here, which is extremely important. I think we have to be able, at some point, to say, "Trop is te veel", as they say in good Belgian, and to act in this field. That seems fundamental to me, and I would like, admiral, Madam Minister, to have information on the follow-up that you intend to give to these heavy responsibilities. Secondly, I hear Mr. Defossé saying: "There is an action plan. He's ambitious. That's right." I wrote down what he said. I didn't see that plan of action. I want to be told he's ambitious. But I'd like to see him before I say he's ambitious. That seems essential to me. Others referred to the question of budgetary means. It is obvious that this will be part of the discussion. But I am still hungry about methodology, minister. I want you to go. If I were you, I'd do the same thing. But I am a parliamentarian and I also intend to participate in the debate, and I also hear that there is a debate on the political, strategic options for our intelligence services. One of the problems we face is that there has never been a real debate on this. We're hearing rubbish. I hear the admiral and thank him for starting the discussion on this issue. He tells us that, for example, we need an intelligence service for external military operations. It is obvious that we need a department specializing in these subjects. However, do we need an administration, a separate service? I keep questioning myself. Can we not imagine specialized officials in a more general administration? I hear, Madam Minister, that you want to develop a career in the army, but why not in the intelligence service? Otherwise, we will always experience difficulties in the passages from one service to another, as well as inconsistencies and information that will not be shared.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic537x.u38	That is what I meant: the unique trajectory and status of the intelligence services, as provided for in the government agreement, with the aim of strengthening this culture of the organization and promoting the passages. This reform will have to be undertaken with my colleague from Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic537x.u39	This obviously seems to me to be a good idea. This is an important step, but it is only a step for me. I'm waiting to see the result because it's been a while since we've been talking about the unique status. I wouldn't say since I was born but almost. You may succeed where your predecessors have failed, but it's easier when there's only one administration. At that point, we have to converge. It's more complicated when services are both – I have to say – sometimes in competition, sometimes with communication difficulties. Like any good parliamentarian, I also let my ears hang out. I hear these services that tell us: "If you go there, in one service or another, you will never have good information." As for the other issue you raised, admiral, which is that we would have the mistrust of external services, I thought that this issue had been resolved internationally because the concept of third-party service had been transformed into a third-country concept. And I hope that today, when the SGRS receives information, it shares it with the State Security when it comes from abroad. This is also part of the recommendations of the Commission of Inquiry into Terrorist Attacks. There's still one last element. With regard to this meeting on 22 March, we do not read the report in the same way. None of the two briefings by the Minister and the Chief of the SGRS referred to the fact that one of these military personnel - that is, they were referred to, not just methodology - being included in the database. So we talked about the military, but we didn't say what level they were being taken over by the OCAM. That is how I read the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic537x.u40	They spoke of the methods and number of military personnel who were the subject of these methods without a name.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic537x.u41	That's not what I'm reading!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic537x.u42	You also do not read that it is stated that I have been informed anyway. Don't worry!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic537x.u43	No, I can read too. I'm just saying that you're talking about the method when there's been a reference to the military.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic537x.u44	Neither of the Minister's nor the Chief of the SGRS's briefings was mentioned because of the fact that one of these military personnel was being recaptured. So that means not Conings!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic537x.u45	This means that we talked about the military, but we didn't say what level they were according to the OCAM and that we didn't say if they were in the database. So we talked about military and not just methodology.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic537x.u46	What the representative of Committee R told us earlier was that you were not informed. I confirm what Mr.Dallemagne says, that there was a member listed at level 3 of the threat. He also told us that there were different versions and that he could not indicate that you had not been told about Jürgen Conings. These are the facts as they were presented to us earlier.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic537x.u47	(...)... I wasn't the one who was there. I'm telling you. You think if I had been told about it, I would have treated things differently. There is also the IG report, which confirms this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic537x.u48	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Annick Ponthier and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Annick Ponthier and the response of the Minister of Defence, - whereas on 17 May a military man active in the barracks in Leopoldsburg, Jürgen Conings, disappeared with heavy military weapons and was recently found dead; - whereas Conings may have suffered the consequences of PTSD (post-traumatic stress disorder) following participation in several foreign military missions; - whereas PTSD, after traumatic military missions, often only arises years later; - considering that these mental problems are often not openly discussed and so the guidance is not always provided by the Defense Department; - whereas, although there is psychological assistance before, during and after missions, this does not appear to be sufficient in practice; - Whereas there is a need for serious adjustment in order to provide effective and systematic psychological support to military personnel both before, during and after military operations at home and abroad; - whereas psychological support services should also be available and proactively available outside the framework of military operations; asks the government - launch an investigation to evaluate existing psychological assistance and services in the Defense Department; - corrects major shortcomings in the psychological follow-up of military personnel, both before, during and after external or domestic operations, and outside military missions; - invests more in all the different components of our armed forces, providing the medical component with the necessary revaluation; - reports twice a year on the psychological follow-up and support received by the Belgian military in the framework of the military missions of Defence on the special committee responsible for the follow-up of foreign missions.' A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Annick Ponthier and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the questionings of Mrs. Annick Ponthier and the Minister of Defence's response, - Considering that on 17 May last, an active soldier in the Bourg-Léopold barracks, Jürgen Conings, disappeared while he was heavily armed and was recently found dead; - Whereas Conings was potentially suffering from the consequences of PTSD (post-traumatic stress syndrome) after taking part in several military missions abroad; - Whereas the PTSD often manifests itself only several years after traumatic military missions; - Considering that these mental problems are often not addressed openly and that accompaniment is not always provided by the Defence; - Whereas, despite the question of psychological support before, during and after missions, such support is insufficient in practice; - Whereas a serious adjustment is needed to provide effective and systematic psychological support to military personnel both before and during and after military operations in Belgium and abroad; Whereas psychological assistance services must be constantly accessible and proactive outside the scope of military operations; - given the importance of an appropriate future allocation plan for the heritage (military, among others); demands that the government - initiates an investigation to assess current psychological assistance and service delivery to Defence; - addresses the major gaps in the psychological follow-up of military personnel, both before and during and after operations in Belgium or abroad, as well as outside the framework of military missions; - invests more in all the different components of our armed forces and in this regard also provides for the necessary upgrading of the medical component. - report twice a year to the Special Commission for the follow-up of missions abroad on the psychological follow-up and support that Belgian military personnel have received in the context of defence military missions." A simple motion was tabled by Mr Christophe Lacroix. A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Christophe Lacroix. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
