ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic625x.u1	Minister, several communes in the Kingdom have communal sarts. The latter consist of property the enjoyment of which belongs in common to all the inhabitants of the commune, such as common woods, plots of land, etc. This system has been present for a long time in Wallonia and Flanders. Indeed, article 542 of Book 2 of the former Civil Code enshrined the existence of communal property and thus of these communal sarts. However, since 1 September 2021, the entry into force of the new Book 3 of the Civil Code, the article in question seems to have been repealed by Article 14. No comment is made on this repeal, nor is there any provision in Book 3 to replace this article. The fate of communal sarts therefore raises questions. There is uncertainty as to whether to conclude that they are repealed or maintained. Therefore, Minister, let me ask you the following questions. What legal status has the reform of Book 3 concerning the assets of the Civil Code reserved for communal sarts? If the existence of these communal property were to be called into question, would it not be advisable to consider a legislative amendment in order to enshrine and perpetuate this system?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic625x.u2	Dear colleague, article 3.45 of the new Civil Code enshrines the principle that property belonging to public persons belongs to the private domain, except in the public domain. The initial version of this article, which set out a definition of public property, was finally amended in order to prevent the Civil Code from deciding how to allocate property to the public domain. The Civil Code is characterized by a desire for neutrality and, as noted in parliamentary proceedings, since there is no longer a definition of what constitutes public or private property, no substantive law changes are made to the statutes of certain existing public property. It is traditionally accepted that communal sarts are considered to be in the private domain of the communes (cf. Judgment of the Court of Cassation of 16 May 1974) and constitute a specific category of this private domain which is distinguished from so-called property by the fact that the municipality - owner - enjoys it through its inhabitants. This remains the case under the new Code. It is also accepted that the definition given by Article 542 of the former Civil Code of communal property (of which communal sarts are part) was incorrect since, contrary to the aforementioned Article, the inhabitants of the municipality are not owners of the said property. The existence of communal sarts is therefore not called into question despite the repeal of article 542 of the former Civil Code.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic625x.u3	I thank the minister for the clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic625x.u4	Madam President, Minister, the aim of the legal framework for gambling is to channel players towards a quality legal offer subject to numerous rules designed to protect players from the risks of addiction and to limit the losses incurred by players. Nevertheless, a balance must be sought between the protection of players and the attractiveness of the legal offer. Otherwise, it is obviously only too easy for players to give in to the tempting sirens of illegal gambling sites that are recording more and more results, especially thanks to advertising. In recent months, many betting agency operators who are often independent franchisees have expressed serious concerns about various issues. These companies have suffered from the pandemic. Like other independents, they had to shut down their agency. A project that is ongoing aims to assimilate betting agencies to casinos. This raises questions for a sector with a declining operating figure. I would remind you that this sector still represents several hundred jobs. In my region alone, 50 to 100 families live from the exploitation of such agencies. It is therefore a question of extending to betting agencies an EPIS identity check which already exists at the entrance of casinos and gaming rooms. It's quite surprising. Practically, how will they organise the control locks at the entrance of the agencies, given the size of the premises? In addition, there is no provision in relation to capped bets, whereas we know that an average bet, in this type of agency, does not exceed 10 euros. In this context, conducting a systematic identity check seems very tedious and risks repelling customers, directing them more towards online gaming systems, including illegal games Moreover, the games of the National Lottery are not affected by this EPIS measure. Maybe we'd need a little fairness. They're games too, even though the National Lottery is the state. The arrangements made for betting agencies should also apply to the products and places where the products of the National Lottery are sold. Minister, I know, because they contacted me, that you were unable to receive representatives of the Professional Union of Bet Agencies (UPAP). Beyond the question of proportionality and fairness in relation to the National Lottery, would it not be useful to have contact with UPAP, which represents more than 500 jobs?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic625x.u5	Madam President, my colleague, the government agreement is clear on this: "The government will take the necessary measures to combat gambling debts." That is why I support the idea of introducing EPIS into betting agencies. In addition, the application of the EPIS control system was already included in the gambling law in May 2019. We are simply implementing what is already provided for in the law. EPIS is an extremely effective tool in the fight against gambling dependency and gambling debts. The EPIS list includes players who are excluded by law, such as persons under provisional administration and persons in collective debt settlement. In addition, EPIS includes persons who request it or persons for whom third parties request it, such as a family member or CPAS, because they are at risk of gambling addiction and/or have financial problems. This government prefers a check-in rather than a check-in at the counter, by analogy with casinos and gaming rooms. A betting agency is in fact very similar to these gaming establishments as it is used only to exploit games of chance or to reap bets. An entry check not only ensures that excluded players, and therefore the most vulnerable, are not allowed to enter the game establishment and that they do not have the opportunity to be tempted, but also to ensure that there is effective control of the minimum age. This age is not systematically controlled in betting agencies, which means that minors are still too often allowed to access these gambling establishments. It is true that in bookstores it is possible to bet up to 200 euros per day. The EPIS system has not yet been introduced. Rather than not controlling bets of less than 200 euros, it would be more efficient to introduce EPIS into bookstores. It would be better to ensure the protection of the most vulnerable players. Legal proceedings are under way before the Constitutional Court. We will wait until the end of the year and take the necessary initiatives if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic625x.u6	Minister, I thank you for your fairly comprehensive answer and for the clarification of the willingness to carry out an entry check. I hear you're also proposing that there be fairness in relation to the National Lottery. That's a good thing, I think. Beyond the proceedings before the Constitutional Court, I will make proposals to achieve this fairness. There is no reason why the game, because it is organized by the State, does not have the same levels of requirement as when organised by the private sector. You're told by a Liberal. Nevertheless, I think it would be useful to discuss this sector, which generates many jobs in our country. In my constituency alone, in the Grand Charleroi, there are 50 to 100 jobs. Could any contact be established with your firm? They are companies like others, who bring a lot to our society, sponsoring sports clubs and carrying out charitable actions. However, I am told that I cannot get in touch with your office. If you explained your intentions to them, as you have just done here, the exchanges with this sector would take place with greater understanding. In any case, I will allow myself to send them your answer, hoping that you can formalize a useful contact with an important sector of our economy, also taking into account the tax revenues it brings to the federal state and the regions. Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic625x.u7	Mr Minister, on 5 October last, the Brussels Correctional Court handed down a decision on a case of collective rape involving six male authors, the images of which were then broadcast on social networks. Prison terms vary from fifty months to five years in prison, all of which are accompanied by probation. If I understand that this stay is accompanied by conditions - such as a ban on the use of narcotic drugs, but also by an obligation to find a job or to undergo training and to start a personal reflection on equality between men and women - I wonder, however, about the practice of a probationary stay of such long-term prison sentences for such serious acts. So, Minister, how useful is the probationary stay for you today? Should it always be structured around the probability of recidivism of the convicted person? Is it covered by the training on sexual violence, which is now provided to all judges? Why does the legislature provide for severe prison sentences for rape cases if the judge can provide for such long periods of stay, thereby eliminating the sentence of its meaning? Do you consider that allowing a probationary stay for sentences of up to five years' imprisonment is justified, in particular with regard to rape, an offence which under the Criminal Code remains punishable by sentences of five to ten years' imprisonment, but which, according to your draft law reforming sexual criminal law, could be punished by a minimum of ten years' imprisonment? Are you possibly in favour of extending the period of stay, for example by allowing a penalty of a stay of more than five years or, on the contrary, do you think that it should be reduced? Are such large penalties regularly accompanied by probationary periods of such length by the magistrates or is this case of an exceptional nature?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic625x.u8	Dear colleague, on your question of legislation, the bill is tabled in Parliament. Hearings have taken place and parliamentary discussions are about to begin. I will gladly respond when this bill is discussed. As for this individual case, it is not for me to comment on the non-final decisions taken. However, I can inform you that the Public Prosecutor's Office has decided to appeal because of the discrepancy between the sentences required by the Public Prosecutor's Office and those imposed by the court. I would also like to recall the principle of individualization of sentences.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic625x.u9	Minister, thank you for your answer even though I have known you more talkative. I can understand that I am asking you about a case which, in particular, is not within your jurisdiction and that, out of respect for the principle of separation of powers, you did not comment on the decision. But in my view, this decision is problematic in that it feeds the public's mistrust of the justice system, since the experts keep saying about your proposed reform of the Penal Code that it is not necessary to increase the penalties, since the penalties for rape are already very heavy. At the same time, the penalties imposed do not correspond to the severity of the penalties provided for in the Criminal Code. Even in the presence of aggravating circumstances (i.e., collective rape of a person forced to drink and use drugs to make him vulnerable) despite this, a stay has been pronounced. I wonder whether we are dealing with an isolated case here or not. If this is not the case, this would demonstrate that beyond the worsening of the penalties provided for in the Criminal Code, there is an important work to be done in the training and awareness-raising of judges. It should be recalled that a few months ago the generalization of training on sexual violence for magistrates was voted. What is the point if we still come to situations that remain extremely shocking? This is all the more true in view of the fact that, as far as the stay is concerned, the courts must be given sufficient means to monitor and ensure that the persons concerned fulfil the conditions. In this regard, I remain dubious. It also seems to me that more work should be done in consultation with, for example, the Legal Psychopathology Unit or support centres. In this way, beyond the sentences imposed, persons convicted of acts of sexual violence could benefit from the full support of these bodies whose results are extremely positive in terms of reducing recidivism. In my view, it is not just training and work that will allow these people to get back on the right track. Therapeutic accompaniment is necessary and must also be possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic625x.u10	Thank you, Minister, for your answer on a subject that is finally discussed too little despite the scale of the phenomenon in prison. I am pleased to have approached you and to be assured that an inmate is regularly received by a psychiatrist and a care team, and that, depending on his or her own needs, he or she may eventually be referred to specialized institutions. When we see that psychiatric disorders are extremely important to inmates at the time of their incarceration, but also during their incarceration, I think this is fundamental. Indeed, the conditions of detention are such that, very often, one does not come out unscathed. In spite of everything, I have the impression that it finally came out of the theory. In practice, on the occasion of my visit to Leuze-en-Hainaut prison, I found that medical personnel, particularly at the psychiatric level, are far below the needs observed on the ground. External physicians and psychiatrists must be employed and this is a problem with the regular follow-up to which you referred. In an interview with the newspapers of the South Press Group, you talked about the function of a detention escort that was created in Haren prison to detect the needs of the detainees. This is an interesting initiative. Can we imagine that this function is generalized to all prison establishments? When we talk about detecting the needs of inmates, are we also talking about psychiatric disorders? With regard to the transfer of health care in prison to the Public Health FPS, I say yes. This is part of your government agreement and a meeting took place two weeks ago. I can only encourage you in this direction, and I hope that we can have a timetable on this. We have been talking about this for too long, and I hope that your government will be the one that will realize this very important promise.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic625x.u11	Madam President, Minister, since August 2021, when a youth judge in the French Community decides to place a young person in an open regime, this young person is in fact simply deprived of his freedom. He actually finds himself in a closed diet. As incredible as it seems, the administration has put in place a system in which minors find themselves ex officio, despite the judge's decision and contrary to the judge's decision, in a closed educational regime (grills, locked doors, remote closed rooms, etc.). The judge's decision is therefore not respected. This is obviously the crime of arbitrary kidnapping. Should it be recalled that the deprivation of liberty of minors can only be decided by a judicial authority? This is a situation which is in no way in conformity with international conventions or the law of 8 April 1965 and which is also not in conformity with the relevant order of the Government of the French Community since, to date, the order has not been amended in any way. What is also particularly worrying is that this illegal practice of the administration comes exclusively from a simple internal instruction, via a simple mail addressed to the IPPJ, which modifies the access to the open sections of the IPPJ, imposing a series of unfounded requirements for the entry of young people. I would point out that the administration also hinders the allocation of available IPPJ places when the direction decided by the judge is not supported by the administration. This is again something unacceptable. The young judges of Brussels and Wallonia are angry - you can imagine it - as well as the lawyers. The Union francophone des magistraciers de la jeunesse has sent you a letter. As I was telling you, minister, such behaviour represents arbitrary detention. This is a failure by the Executive of the French Community of decisions taken by the judiciary. These illegal administrative decisions undermine the most essential principles of the rule of law, including the function of trial. This also has a serious impact on the rights of the most vulnerable persons such as minors. This situation is totally unacceptable. Minister, what answer do you give to the questionings of youth judges and lawyers? As Minister of Justice, you intend to defend respect for the law, the independence of judges, respect for court decisions and the right to judge. As Minister of Justice, do you intend to contact your colleague, the Minister of Youth of the French Community, to stop these illegalities?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic625x.u12	Dear colleague, I have read the letter sent to me by the Union francophone des magistraciques de la jeunesse (UFMJ) dated 21 September, in which they express their concerns about the position taken by the French Community's General Administration for Youth Assistance on the amendment of the IPPJ regime not yet in force. These magistrates also expressed the same concerns to Mrs Glatigny, Minister for Youth Aid of the French Community. I will not fail to draw his attention to the practical difficulties that arise in implementing the ordinances of youth judges. However, I would like to remind you that it is difficult for me to comment on a matter which is not within my competence, as far as Community competence is concerned and, as you will have understood, which falls under the responsibility of my colleague and Minister for Youth Aid. But that does not prevent me from taking the grievances of the judges seriously. I am convinced that the colleague in charge of the IPPJ will take the necessary steps to ensure strict compliance with the decisions of the Youth Aid Judges in relation to all their modalities. One of the avenues for consideration is the provision of a SEVOR section (evaluation and guidance services) in an open centre and in a closed centre, allowing for the choice of one or the other regime according to the decision of the youth judge and for strict observance of the arrangements.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic625x.u13	Madam President, Minister, I thank you first of all for having read the letter from the Union des magistraciers francophones de la jeunesse. Having said that, when you reduce the issue to practical difficulties, I do not agree at all with you. Indeed, these are not only practical difficulties when it comes to an administration whose role is and must remain to execute judicial decisions. You have here an administration that decides itself and arrogates the right to try and detain young people, without the decision of the youth judge. I hear you are now referring the matter to the Minister of Youth Assistance. But this is not just a matter of respect for the powers of one or the other minister. As Minister of Justice, you cannot stay on the balcony and clear yourself by referring the matter to another minister. It is up to you to ensure respect for the independence of the judiciary, respect for judicial decisions, strict respect for decisions taken by judges and respect for the right to judge. That is the rule of law. Mr Minister, of course there are alternatives that are really not complicated. Sometimes the judge decides on an open placement. Indeed, there has been an open regime for years. This is therefore simply an internal will of the administration. And that is what is totally unacceptable. I hope that you will not simply contact the Minister of the French Community and that you will ensure that fundamental principles of our country in terms of law and respect for the law and judges will now be applied and respected.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic625x.u14	Question No 55022334C by Mr Moutquin is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic625x.u15	Minister, I refer to the text of the question tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic625x.u16	Mrs De Wit, as regards your first question, the Working Group on DNA database interveners contacted the NICC during the work, in view of its particular expertise and the fact that it had carried out a study into the creation of such a database. The main results and recommendations of that study were then discussed in the Working Group on the basis of a comprehensive report. That study showed that a number of points needed to be clarified. For example, it was first necessary to examine in a procedural manner how DNA samples can be legally anchored, with voluntary or forced sampling. A second point is who pays the cost of DNA analysis. The third question concerns how the registered profiles may be used in the DNA database. The fourth point is how the procedure for the collection, analysis, registration and comparison of DNA will be carried out. The fifth question is who will manage the database. So you hear there's a lot of questions. At the end of 2018, the Working Group concluded that the legislation on the DNA database intervention should only be amended before it could be implemented in practice. After all, the law was not very concrete. The working party then ceased its work, as a legislative initiative could no longer be submitted before the end of the previous legislature. As far as your second question is concerned, I will certainly look at the conclusions of the working group on the development of the DNA database of interveners, in order to determine the extent to which legislation may need to be adapted in order to meet the concerns of the working group. Before doing so, I would like to ask the area, in particular the police and emergency services, to check whether they are in favour of this new DNA database. At the same time, I would also like to point out that every new DNA database entails costs. Moreover, in the case of the interveners, those costs cannot be considered as court costs. We must therefore also examine whether the cost of implementing the law in practice outweighs the usefulness of such a database. With the NICC, we are currently looking at other possible changes to DNA legislation, which will eventually result in a legislative initiative.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic625x.u17	Minister, I can understand that the route is being taken for a break to see how things are going, but it remains a fact that legislation already exists. I believe that we can assume that this legislation will be implemented. I think it is very important that it be implemented. I am aware that databases are not obvious and that there are also costs involved, but they also have a specific purpose. With the DNA database discussed, it is possible to work faster and more efficiently in certain studies. I would like us to work on this and that the necessary legislative changes will be made quickly, with an implementing decision. In this way, we can help people on the ground to carry out certain investigations more quickly and efficiently, which seems to me to fit in perfectly with your ambition to make justice work faster. I am counting on you to take the necessary steps and follow this up.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic625x.u18	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Geens's 55022433C was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic625x.u19	Madam President, Minister, the prison officers are moving. There was a strike in Antwerp, in Saint-Gilles, but also, as we saw earlier this week, in other prisons. A strike notice was filed for all French-speaking prisons in the country. All report the same problems that have lasted for years, namely a serious shortage of staff and chronic overcrowding. In Antwerp, the already "rationalised" framework of 272 full-time equivalents (FTEs) is only filled to 250 FTEs. The prison currently has 738 prisoners with a capacity of 365. In Saint-Gilles, there are now 903 inmates for 500 places available. This situation has a serious impact both on the working conditions of the officers and on the living conditions of the detainees, who find themselves piled up in confined places with all the problems that this entails: increased tensions, health problems, lack of mattresses for all prisoners, etc. Agents are sick of it. They call for immediate measures to increase the framework and resolve prison overcrowding. Minister, what are you going to do, in the short term, to solve this personnel problem? Are you going to hire agents? If so, how many, and under what type of contract?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic625x.u20	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, my administration is doing its utmost to fill these vacancies. Selection procedures are launched regularly by Selor, but they are very demanding at the administrative level and often do not produce the necessary candidates. This is why recruitment takes place in different ways, both through statutory recruitment and through first-time employment agreements. All means are used to strengthen the staff framework in the short term. A statutory recruitment procedure for the function of prison officer is currently under way for five regions on the Dutch-speaking side. This procedure will be closed at the end of this month. As of December 1st, a new procedure will be launched for the province of Antwerp. A new selection procedure will also be launched in January. Many efforts are also being made on the francophone side. A statutory recruitment procedure has recently been launched. As regards Brussels prisons, a selection procedure has recently been finalized and vacant posts will again be published in January.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic625x.u21	Minister, thank you. I heard that statutory posts were open. This is good news, because the unions denounce the engagement of agents in the form of Rosetta contracts. Indeed, these are the main cause of the turnover, since from the age of 26, it is no longer possible to work through such contracts. As a result, an entire acquisition of experience is thrown into the trash. That is why they are asking for statutory contracts, in order to train the new agents in the long term. So I heard you were going to allow for the hiring of Statutory Officers, but I didn't hear if you were giving up Rosetta's contracts for prison officers. This is one of the essential aspects put forward by the actors on the ground, which require the termination of such contracts which favour turnover and prevent staff from seeing a medium- or long-term perspective.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic625x.u22	Madam Chair, Minister, I had to ask you again about a subject that was the subject of a question on May 5. At this meeting, I asked you about the relevance of the information contained in the criminal record extract, in particular with regard to the reintegration of prisoners into the labour market. You announced that you had commissioned an evaluation of the existing legislation from your FPS, the results of which were expected by May 19. On June 9, I asked you again about this. You then told me that only a first analysis could be delivered on the central criminal record and on the request for rehabilitation. You mentioned three tracks that needed to be analysed with the actors involved. You referred to the amendment to article 595, paragraph 1, of the Code of Criminal Investigation, either with a view to broadening the list of convictions that would no longer be included in the basic model of the criminal record, or to reducing the current three-year period during which criminalizations are mentioned on the extract. You also mentioned the adaptation of automatic erasure and the adaptation of the rehabilitation procedure. On 6 October, you returned to this matter in committee, to one of my colleagues, saying that the above analysis was still under way, with no further details on its methodology and timetable. Minister, what results can we already draw from the work under way? What problems have you been able to identify? Do you already consider a legislative initiative or, on the contrary, would you prefer to wait for all the results of the evaluation conducted by your CPS? In this case, is there a schedule of work and delivery of conclusions? What methodology do you use to analyse the legislation? Have you ever consulted with any of the field players and experts? If so, which, and how did they respond? If not, who do you intend to appeal to? In what time frame? As regards the rehabilitation procedure itself, you mentioned two main criticisms: on the one hand, the slowness of the procedure and, on the other, the lack of awareness of the procedure by the main interested parties. You said that a legislative initiative was not necessarily necessary. Have you taken any initiatives to address these two criticisms? If so, which ones? If not, do you consider doing so?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic625x.u23	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, since our last exchange on 9 June, I have been aware of new information on the criminal record system and rehabilitation in criminal matters, which has been communicated to me by my administration. This includes what is being done in our French, Dutch and Luxembourg neighbours. The three leads were discussed in my office on October 26 with a member of the Central Judicial Case and a member of the Legislation Branch. This task force will then be expanded in the light of the avenues identified, in particular at the level of representatives of the judicial authorities responsible for the criminal rehabilitation procedure or others to be determined by the same task force. No leads have been retained or ruled out and therefore, a fortiori, no legislative initiatives have been taken as a result. I leave it to the think tank to develop the most effective methodology to achieve the best results in this area. As I told Mr Goffin at our meeting on 26 October, let us act in a thoughtful manner and not in haste. Since 26 October, therefore, the Reflection Group has had the necessary information to really start the discussion. This is an important step in my willingness to analyze the current functioning of the criminal record, in order to see what elements of improvement can be removed from it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic625x.u24	Minister, thank you. The work is therefore under way, which is quite positive. It appears that concrete avenues have been discussed and can be detailed with experts and actors on the ground. This is essential because today the criminal record law seems too rigid and disproportionate, as well as the rehabilitation procedure seems too vague and complex. I can only encourage you in the approach you have taken, because today it is absolutely necessary both to respond to the purpose of reintegration and to ensure the safety of all. This is all the more necessary because pilot projects have been launched by some countries to develop a real relationship of trust between the convicted person and his future employer. I hope that these pilot projects can be analysed by the working group that is working on the tracks that you have dealt with very briefly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic625x.u25	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on your first question, I have no objection to the development of an appropriate regulatory framework for this purpose, but I must point out, however, that the development of a regulatory framework for assistance to persons with disabilities falls within the competence of the Communities. I am only competent in the decriminalisation of sex work with a view to ensuring that sexual assistance to persons with disabilities is removed from illegality. To date, these people are also confronted with Belgium's uncertain policy of tolerance with regard to prostitution. As you know, a bill on this subject has been introduced in Parliament and hearings are currently under way. I think we are going to discuss this early next week in our committee. With regard to your second, third, fourth and fifth questions, the answer falls within the competence of the Communities. The policy for the integration of disabled persons is the responsibility of the Communities. On the other hand, recognition and allowances are managed at the federal level by my colleague, responsible for the Social Security FPS, Directorate-General People with Disabilities.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic625x.u26	Minister, I hear two things. First, you are not opposed to the development of a regulatory framework, but in spite of everything, this regulatory framework does not fall within your jurisdiction, but within the purview of the federated entities. It is true that today it is the federated entities that subsidize the associations that implement this sexual accompaniment. I believe, however, that the federal government has a role to play, in the sense that it is absolutely necessary to avoid that, through the development of this new sexual penal code, the aim is, directly or indirectly, to compromise this same activity. I hope, therefore, that, in drafting the sexual penal code, we will be able to take this activity into account, either by consulting with the federated entities or by providing for derogations in the penal code, since derogations may be possible both in practice and in advertising. We could foresee this when it comes to medical purposes, for example. Or we could move towards a legal framework for public health. But for me, the excuse for the division of powers is not valid, because the border may become very blurred between what would result from sexual accompaniment and a prostitution that should be prohibited. Moreover, some people who are ill-intentioned, whether they are traffickers or pimps, could precisely benefit from a regulatory framework on sexual accompaniment in order to pass on their activity as such. We know very well that their primary goal is the sexual exploitation of particularly vulnerable people. This situation is likely to arise. So you should take that into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic625x.u27	Madam Chair, Minister, for years prison officers have not received their uniforms in time. Some deliveries have been delayed for several years. You recently adopted a draft royal decree amending the regulation of these uniforms. A staff member will receive a basic outfit consisting of ten pieces of clothing at the beginning of his/her career and will then be able to order five pieces of clothing of his/her choice each year. In concrete terms, only "oversized" clothing items will now be supplied. Agents will have to choose and supply themselves for the whole bottom: shoes, pants but also jackets and accessories. They will therefore have to advance the cost and then receive a maximum allowance of €235 per year to cover these purchases. As for the main guideline, these items should be dark blue. The current system is based on a point system: 9,954 points/year. For items not received last year, your firm plans to pay agents up to €0.04 per item, which means €398.16 per year. The grant of an allowance of EUR 235 per year is therefore a reduction of EUR 163. Officers estimate the lifespan of these equipment parts to be approximately one year. For example, a pair of safety shoes alone can cost around EUR 100. Minister, what is the motivation of this differentiated system for the top and bottom of uniforms? Does this system respond to the need precisely to "unify" the handling of agents? Do you confirm that this system will have the effect of forcing agents to advance the cost from the bottom of their uniforms? On what basis has the amount of compensation been calculated?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic625x.u28	Mr Boukili, before I answer your questions, I would like to clarify certain points. First of all, this draft royal decree is the result of close cooperation with the trade unions. In order to achieve this, a working group was set up, in which the administration and the three trade unions were represented. The discussions took place in a very constructive atmosphere. I would also like to add that trade union negotiations, which are also constructive, are still under way. The amount of the compensation is, of course, part of it. At the request of the unions, we used the method of work used by the Office of Foreigners in this draft royal decree. In accordance with the Ministerial Order of 13 December 2019, its staff members receive a flat-rate clothing allowance, with which they must purchase the necessary clothing themselves. For reasons of staff safety and recognition, we chose to provide the upper parts. This also ensures greater uniformity in the workplace. I would like to stress that this new way of working is in no way an economy. In order to be able to carry out this project successfully, in 2021 we made available EUR 3 million for the purchase of new uniforms. From 2022 onwards, the clothing budget will be structurally increased by EUR 500 000 per year. As far as the bottom of the uniforms are concerned, it seems to me more difficult to find clothing adapted to each other's morphology. Allowing staff to choose the parts at the bottom offers them more comfort, while ensuring uniformity, since the annex to the royal decree provides very clear instructions. A key argument for focusing on top garments is their recognizable character. For surveillance staff, being recognized as a staff member is important to inmates. In addition, in recent years, we have found that staff prefer to wear their own shoes and no longer want to use the shoes provided by the CPS. Then, in accordance with the Royal Decree of 13 July 2017, the allowance is paid on the basis of the benefits provided. Therefore, it can only be paid after it has been completed. As the allowance is granted once a year, the advance of the cost of clothing is theoretically possible if the agent needs new clothing before he receives his allowance. And again, this reasoning is only for the first year, because after that, a rotation will be installed. The amount of 235 euros you quote has been determined on the basis of market prices and should be sufficient to buy shoes and pants. This amount of the flat-rate clothing allowance is currently part of the negotiations with the trade unions. When you quoted the figures, you said there was a decrease from 398 euros to 235 euros. That's not right. One must add to the 235 euros that these people receive, an amount between 160 and 170 euros. This is the value of the clothing received covering the top of the body: shirts, polos, sweaters and jackets.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic625x.u29	Minister, thank you. I understand your last argument, that the difference lies in the top garments that are provided. I would like to return to your answer to my first question and the reasons why you do not provide the bottom uniform. The reasons you put forward are not convincing, minister. As I said before, before becoming a Member of Parliament, I worked as a guardman in the Royal Museums of Belgium. We had an entire uniform: the top, the bottom and the shoes. Museums have hundreds of employees. Sizes vary from leaner to thicker. We found pants, shirts, jackets and even shoes for everyone. For the latter, one had the choice between different shapes of shoes depending on the comfort of each. This offer is therefore possible and you make another choice. This remains your choice because what I have just described exists in other public services and I have experienced it personally. It's not a testimony I'm being given, it's a matter of my own experience. Your choice makes it difficult to acquire these clothes. Indeed, you tell the workers to advance this money and then they will be compensated. To advance 235 euros for someone who receives an average wage, currently quite low, with all the difficulties of purchasing power that we know today and with the wage freeze that has been voted by your government, is not obvious. Do you think that people will find 235 euros to move forward like this and that this is just a formality? That is not the case, minister. It is complicated to advance 235 euros and it is the role of the State, when it concerns a public service, to take responsibility for the uniform if it wants to impose one. One cannot impose a uniform and not assume the entire supply of it. As I said, from experience, this is quite possible, but you choose not to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic625x.u30	Excuse me, but this new regulation came at the request of many workers, but also at the explicit request of a union, Mr Boukili. We then brought together the various unions in a working group.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic625x.u31	For my part, I hear the unions complaining about this agreement. Does the presence of trade unions in this discussion mean that they have accepted your proposal unanimously? I don't think so. Their presence does not mean that there has been consultation. Concertation requires consideration of their point of view. I sometimes disagree with a vote in committee. My participation in a commission does not mean that I validate his decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic625x.u32	"Mr. Minister, on 3 November 2021, the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office reported that 11 searches were carried out, including 3 in the barracks of Florennes, Saint-Trond (school of non-commissioned officers) and Oud-Heverlee. The Public Prosecutor's Office stated that "persons potentially involved are suspected of having broadcast or made available to the public messages with the intention of inciting an offence related to terrorism".
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic625x.u33	Have the persons concerned been interviewed? Can you tell us more about the current state of the investigation?"
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic625x.u34	I repeat here every week that as Minister of Justice I cannot, may and will vote on an ongoing criminal investigation. That's obvious. Our country has a layered system, especially the intelligence services. They have the task of following up extremism in our country. No distinction is made between left extremistism, right extremistism, jihadism or any other kind of extremism. When an extremist person could commit violence or incite others to violence, he or she is placed on the OCAD list, the so-called terrorist list, and he or she is the subject of a multidisciplinary follow-up by the LTFs and the LIVCs. If there are indications that a person is committing or will commit crimes, it is up to the justice system to open a criminal investigation. It's that system that worked here too. One of the persons in whom a search was carried out by the military was followed by the intelligence service, was placed on the OCAD list and was the subject of a judicial investigation. I can't tell you much more about that. Mr Boukili, since the investigation is under way, I cannot answer your specific questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic625x.u35	Minister, the question of the rise of the far right remains a major problem in our country. In my view, this must be a priority for all of our security services and I hope that the government will do this work, especially after the revelations of recent weeks. I will ensure that this fight is a government priority.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic625x.u36	The next item is the debate on the following motions for resolutions: 55022523C from Mr Ducarme, but we haven't heard from him since.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic625x.u37	Minister, I have already briefly referred to the problem. I do not tell you secrets when I say that the overcrowding in our prisons, especially in the prison in Antwerp's Begijnenstraat, has been thriving for years and days. Recently, however, the Antwerp guards pressed you again with the noses on the facts. A spontaneous strike broke out on 19 October 2021, which in itself is always regrettable. However, when we look at the working conditions of the guards, we can only understand that strike. New employees only receive their training after a few months. Frisk education is done digitally. Newcomers without training must guide later newcomers. At times, one guard is responsible for 70 inmates. If we add all that to the occupation of 738 prisoners, although there should normally be only 365 inmates, and a shortage of 30 inmates in one prison, then that is basically just an accident. Mr Minister, these are accidents, figures and problems apart from the corona crisis. Fortunately, there was a constructive conversation between the guards and the mayor of Antwerp. The work was also resumed. However, the problems have not been solved. The guards have charged that Minister Van Quickenborne is delivering a good news show, but that they do not see anything changing in practice. You visited prison in 2020, but nothing has yet been resolved. In the meantime, there would have been a discussion between the trade unions and the Director-General of DG EPI. However, as our colleague pointed out earlier, the unions of the Brussels prisons have in the meantime also filed a strike notice because of the lack of staff. That lack of staff was already there before the corona crisis, Minister. You also know that there is still a delay in the execution of the sentence due to the corona crisis. You have just solved the problem for the short-term punishments from 1 December 2021. That's not gonna happen again. Nevertheless, Minister, I have a number of questions for you: is the story of the situations described, such as late training and newcomers who are barely trained and then need to train other newcomers? Is it true that there is simply no time to give guards a decent education when they arrive? Is it true that guards have so many inmates in their custody? Is that the case in all prisons? It was planned that consultations would have taken place in the meantime. What is the result of that? In the very short term, you found the miracle solution this morning, in particular the law on short sentences did not enter into force on 1 December 2021. Is that enough? Is that gonna fix it? Even without the short-term punishment, there is already overpopulation in prisons today. What are you going to do in the long term to get the fuse out of the powder keg? What effect does this have on the delay in the execution of the sentence? We already know the effect on short sentences, but what about the rest of the sentence?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic625x.u38	Before answering all your questions, I would like to inform you that the prison in Antwerp was one of the first prisons I visited. Immediately after my arrival I was able to determine the very difficult working conditions, namely the shortage of staff, the overcrowding and the outdated infrastructure. I've been working on these cases since day one. However, it is inconceivable that solutions can be found from today to tomorrow for these problems that have been dragging on for decades. Even after one year, this cannot be solved. Although I understand the frustration of the staff, a spontaneous strike is not the solution. This puts colleagues at risk. The right to strike is a legitimate means for which there is clear regulation. Unfortunately, however, it was not respected on 29 October 2021, which I regret. I'm always willing to talk to the unions. I have already sent a letter on this matter to the trade union representative. As for your first question, no classroom lessons could be organized during the corona pandemic. An online offer was developed. Online lessons start about one to two weeks after taking up office. The startup depends on a number of factors. Next week a new trajectory will start and the entire waiting list will be eliminated. I'll give you some more information on how the training was built up. The first eight days of basic training followed by all new staff, regardless of their status, will be converted into an online package of seven half days of four hours. Staff are invited to this training as soon as possible and usually start two weeks after taking up their duties. Staff covered by a Rosetta contract shall not receive any further training offered by the training centre. The on-the-job training takes place in prison. Staff with a different status will then receive 10 half-day training, followed by 14 days of classical lessons organized over time. The number of inmates to be watched by a penitentiary officer varies from one prison to another. Indeed, in the prison of Antwerp, the population can sometimes reach 70 prisoners per section. In principle, there are two penitentiary officers per section. A shift lift co-ordinates the operation of three to four sections. A centre and a subcentre also supervise via cameras. The trade unions met last week with the Director-General of the Penitentiary Institutions. After that, the Regional Executive Board started bilateral talks. A cooling-off period has been announced until 15 November, which means that some activities for prisoners cannot continue. Social dialogue has been temporarily taken over by the central level. Locally there is a working group in which all levels and also the trade unions are represented. This working group has started with a thorough reflection on how to review procedures and how things can be organised differently in order to reduce the workload. Tomorrow there will be a discussion with the trade unions, but everyone seems to want to give the initiative a chance. As far as your third question is concerned, the policy is of course tailored to the entire DG EPI, but it also has an impact on the situation in the Antwerp prison. As far as the overpopulation is concerned, I refer to the ten-point plan that I explained in the context of the policy paper. I will not go into that now. As far as obsolete infrastructure is concerned, the prison master plan is being carried out further. In addition to the construction of new prisons, the existing infrastructure is also being invested. The Justice budget for building maintenance was increased by 8 million euros. For Antwerp specifically, there is the new prison for which I signed the contract with the competent colleague on 30 September. Furthermore, as you know, we also have the ambition to open a detention house in each province. Despite the budgetary challenges, the government has released EUR 92 million for this purpose. As far as staff shortages are concerned, my administration is making every effort to fill in the vacant posts. Selection procedures are launched at Selor on a regular basis. These procedures are administratively difficult and do not always produce the necessary candidates. Therefore, there are different ways of recruiting, both statutory and start-up contracts. All resources will be used to strengthen staff frameworks in the short term. As from 1 December, a recruitment procedure will be launched for the province of Antwerp. As far as your last question is concerned, the delay in the execution of the corona measures affects not only the prison in Antwerp but all prisons. We're dealing with overpopulation right now. Every day efforts are being made to achieve an optimal distribution of prisoners. Due to the execution of these late prison sentences, we are currently experiencing an increase in our inmate population. This delay will be eliminated by the end of February.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic625x.u39	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You refer to the ten-step plan from your policy paper that dates from last year. We're still waiting for this year's. It should have been there by now, with the new numbers. I wonder if any adjustments have been made, because it is clear that more will be needed. Apart from that, of course, I understand that not everything will be resolved immediately. I don't think anyone expected you to correct the situation in a year. However, if you promise and announce things, they are expected to come. That's the problem. The guards in Antwerp have clearly said this, we hear beautiful promises but we do not see the changes in practice. You may refer to your policy paper from last year, but in the meantime we are almost a year further. That note should therefore be in progress, or at least steps should have been taken to do so. However, we do not see enough of that. You can't solve everything in a year's time, but announcements don't solve anything either. Unfortunately, it is a little too often. Maybe you should pay more attention to that. People are not going to believe those words after a while, and that certainly doesn't get in the way of trust in the Justice Department. So work on the proposed solutions, but pay attention to your announcements. At the end of the journey, you risk being the Minister of Promises, and I don't think that's your ambition. As a member of the opposition, I can still like that, but it doesn't help anyone on the ground. So take care of the action plan, take care of alternatives, take care of that capacity and don't hide behind excuses that don't really mean that much. You know that yourself. We know there's a problem with overpopulation, providing capacity. We have already said here, do not adjust the number of prisoners to capacity, but adjust the capacity to the number of prisoners. That is a very simple principle that you can work with.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic625x.u40	Minister, thank you for the additional time you have agreed to devote to my question. I turn to the resolution of 2019 and come immediately to the important decision that you made this summer with your colleague in charge of the Interior by sending instructions to the population services of the municipalities and to the Directorate of Personal and Civil Status Law of the SPF Justice in order to offer the possibility to the first to ask at the request of the interested parties the one-stop shop set up with the latter, with the aim of establishing whether it is possible to integrate a copy of their personal data, including those relating to their birth, into the data bank of civil registration documents. This is an undeniable step forward and an absolutely fundamental step towards the end of the problem of accessibility to birth certificates. However, this concept of single window control and the fact that most of the procedure remains the responsibility of the victim can be considered vexatious by some Belgian Métis. It is a fact that we are making and I would therefore like to ask you, Mr Minister, whether at the time when the report on the Belgian colonial past was submitted to the House a few days ago, and when a trial is brought in Belgium by five Métis women, this solution seems absolutely optimal to you, and I would like to ask you what, if any, alternatives and/or possible improvements would be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic625x.u41	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have had the opportunity to speak on a number of occasions about this question in this committee – if I recall correctly, on 16 June in response to a question from you. First of all, I must inform you that my administration has received only one request for advice from a municipality following instructions sent to them. As a result, there are currently few reactions to these instructions. As for the role of the Single Window and my administration, it is worth recalling the rules concerning the establishment of civil status documents. Article 164 of the Constitution provides that the drafting of civil registration documents and the maintenance of registers are exclusively within the powers of the municipal authorities. The municipal authorities are therefore exclusively competent for the drawing up of civil status documents and the integration of Belgian acts drawn up before 31 March 2019 into the database of civil status documents. The solution proposed in the instructions is a migration into the BAEC under sections 109 to 111 of the 2018 Act of a birth certificate drawn up by the competent authority at the time of its establishment. In accordance with his competence, the civil registrar shall determine himself whether or not he incorporates the act presented to him in the BAEC. The intervention of my administration, as defined in the instructions of 22 July, has no other purpose than to give an opinion on the documents which are submitted to the commune. The complexity of the'metis' files, in general, and the multiplicity of the types of documents that existed and the procedures that existed at the time, in particular, make these files difficult to analyze. My administration consults with the General Archives of the Kingdom in order to benefit from the fullest possible expertise. The opinion of my administration allows the commune to benefit from a contextualisation of the file. The municipalities therefore benefit from greater expertise in these matters thanks to the opinion of my administration. The purpose of my administration's review of files is also to process files as consistently as possible. It is therefore not a question of exercising additional control, but rather of assisting registrars in their tasks of verifying the acts presented as civil status documents that may be included in the CSB. Furthermore, with regard to a possible alternative solution, as I said earlier, the complexity of the files and the lack of information complicate the search for such a solution. However, this does not prevent me, within the limits of the rules of Belgian law, from continuing to work towards an alternative solution for the missing birth certificates of these citizens. A new alternative solution is currently being considered by my firm in consultation with other relevant firms. Next week, November 18, to be exact, I will discuss this with the College of Attorneys General. In conclusion, it also seems to me important to recall that the principles of the GDPR apply to Métis files. No administration can therefore search for personal data or intervene in an individual file without the data subject having specifically requested and consented to it. Thus, a personal approach is still necessary. Here's my answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic625x.u42	I have taken note of the elements of the answer and thank the minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic625x.u43	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the incident you mentioned involved a boat with 24 transmigrants who had apparently left the northern French coast but were in trouble on the way. At some point they were drifting off the Belgian coast. It was about 24 adults. As for your first question, one of the transmigrants was arrested by the parquet magistraat, after which he was apprehended by the investigating judge for suspicion of involvement in the facts of human trafficking. I cannot provide any further information on this matter. I come to your second question. As far as the magistrate's assessment is concerned, it was indeed decided that there was smuggling of human beings with aggravating circumstances. At least because of the fact that the lives of the passengers were in danger, there is smuggling with aggravating circumstances. The parquet magistraat has given the order to question the transmigrants about their intentions, revealing that they were on their way to Great Britain. During the first contacts with the shipping police and the federal judicial police of West Flanders, which were carried out with interpreters as soon as the transmigrants were brought ashore, it appeared that some of them indicated their intention to make a statement about the smugglers of human beings and to cooperate in the investigation. Within the time limit of administrative arrest, up to 24 hours, as much information as possible was obtained from the passengers and a number of interviews were carried out as victims. As far as your third question is concerned, four people fulfilled the conditions required to obtain the status of victims of human trafficking with aggravating circumstances. Those persons were also immediately granted the status by the reference magistraat, where the specialised reception centres were contacted. As the investigation operations took place shortly before midnight, they were provided with the necessary clothes and shoes and could spend the night at a local reception initiative. The following day they were transferred to specialised shelters, Payoke and VAG-ASA. As far as your fourth question is concerned, four persons were transferred to the centres with the status granted by the reference magistrate. As far as your fifth question is concerned, for the other passengers, the willingness to cooperate in the investigation was less explicit in the first instance, but when they were once again asked whether they wanted the status, most of them suddenly reacted collectively. Once again, contacts were made with a specialised centre. Since there was no immediate place in the specialised shelters to accommodate the entire group, the administrative arrest was settled until the final decision of the Foreign Affairs Office, the day following the incident. The DVZ decided that ten persons would be accommodated in a closed centre. Nine others were ordered to leave the territory. As far as your sixth question is concerned, three of the four victims are still under supervision. One victim who was accompanied by Payoke renounced victim status. The parquet was informed of this. As far as your seventh question is concerned, it is well known that the specialised centres are at their maximum reception capacity. An increase in the reception capacity of the centres is a competence of the Regions. When the 24 transmigrants were found, my cabinet had contact with the cabinet of colleague Mahdi. We have looked together at possible solutions for alternative reception, should they be necessary. As far as your eighth question is concerned, an increase in capacity is a matter for the regions. As part of the new provision on the abuse of prostitution, we are discussing with the Centre against Trafficking in Children and Trafficking in Human Beings to see whether there is a need to extend the powers of the centres and the protection status for victims. As you know, we have provided for a fixed annual funding, which is legally anchored. In addition, we will release additional resources per center. As far as your ninth question is concerned, the creation of such a centre may have advantages, but it does require consultation with stakeholders. During the previous reign, such a treatment centre was established in Steenokkerzeel. A number of criticisms were made at the time, in particular on how the follow-up study could be carried out or on infrastructure issues. The center has now been shut down. So we do not want to go ice in one night before re-opening such a centre. A consultation of the members of the interdepartmental cell is planned. The cell meets twice a year. The next meeting is scheduled for December 2021. It represents all the services involved in trafficking in human beings and trafficking in human beings. Other opinions have also been or are being requested. As a player for multidisciplinary work, as should be done in a handling centre, we have, as far as my powers are concerned, taken a first step towards cooperation between the various services involved in the fight against trafficking in human beings and trafficking in human beings. The creation of the new transit team at the federal judicial police in West Flanders is a first step in this direction. All the services involved, ranging from the primary police service, the federal specialized police service, the reference magistraat, the Foreign Affairs Office and even Europol, work together to detect and identify the criminal networks using the information on the smartphones of the victims of human trafficking, but all the more so on those of the smugglers themselves. We are talking about centralising these data, which opens up the hunt for smugglers and traffickers by means of specific analysis tools. Cooperation between different services is crucial.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic625x.u44	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed reply. According to the information I had, more than four people were willing to enter the statute. I was sorry to hear that, but I understand that the capacity at the centres is under great pressure. When there is extra need, we need to look for additional solutions. There is no doubt that such large interceptions will continue and we cannot allow the victims of human trafficking to be placed. This will put pressure on our famous model, even though the smugglers will not be able to use their testimonies to help roll up the networks. I am convinced that the Transmigration Centre can also play a major role in this. You refer to the problems in Steenokkerzeel, which I recognize. That is why it now needs to be multidisciplinary. You had given me that answer before. We have to do this differently than we did at the time. It can't be a push-through policy like it was then. I have also read that you have kept a new team above the baptismal font, the transit team, including representatives of the DVZ, the public prosecutor and Europol. That team will systematically read out smartphones and cell phones from smugglers. I believe that the Transmigration Centre could also be a welcome addition to this. The P Committee has previously stated that in the past, since the infrastructure was not available, it often did not even have time to read the mobile phones. It also argued in favour of this centre for transmigration. I believe that this centre is really necessary in order to boost the fight against human trafficking. I am counting on you for that, but of course I am also counting on your fellow Minister of State, Mr Verlinden, and Mr Mahdi, who I will certainly ask about this further. After all, I see that everyone is in favour, but that the centre is not there.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic625x.u45	The remaining questions were postponed until the next meeting.
