ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic635x.u1	If the questions are put briefly and forcefully, they can only increase the quality of the debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic635x.u2	Madam Minister, on 30 November, you would normally deliver to the Council of Ministers the full report which, according to the coalition agreement, you had to submit in order to evaluate whether the selected CRM projects were to be abandoned in terms of security of supply and price effects. There are already many coalition partners who have indicated that they are looking forward to that report, in order to determine to what extent the extension of 2 gigawatt nuclear power should or should not take place. You have already made a small presentation to the press about the first part of your report. You have noted that this was not the only thing you wanted to evaluate. In the meantime, I have been able to read some of the other parts of your report. There are still a number of questions open. Can you indicate what elements will be included in the evaluation to ensure that a right choice can be made? Is the report also officially delivered to Parliament? There are mitigation measures, in the sense that other measures would be taken to tackle the problem of the Vilvoorde power station and possibly the Les Awirs power station. However, both the CREG and you have always said that they are not yet available. So the question is: what is the state of the art of this exercise? When can you explain it to Parliament? Finally, what is the calendar for the final decision by the government on whether or not to extend 2 gigawatts of nuclear energy?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic635x.u3	Following on from Mr Wollants' question, I had also tabled a question on the key step, especially since last week one of the chairmen of a majority party put a proposal on the subject again. Pretty late, but okay. His question was, if I understood them correctly, whether we could take between 10% and 20% of the capacity of the two potentially renewable power stations in state hands. He wanted to put the proceeds into an energy poverty fund. This discussion was partly discussed when we talked about high energy prices. We then looked at the nuclear interest rate, which was halved in the previous legislature. I had some questions about that. I have seen the first reactions of the operator, who was not very enthusiastic, but I would also like to hear your response to that proposal, Madam Minister, with regard to nuclear interest.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic635x.u4	Much has already been said in recent days about the evaluation report on security of supply. A number of notes were also worked on within the government. Last Friday they were on the table at the nuclear cabinet, to see how we should deal with the two youngest nuclear power plants in the future and what buttons should be cut. The various reactions in the press indicate that the positions are very far apart. Mr De Croo has also been sent into the field. He's gonna talk to the manager, Engie Electrabel. What is the meaning of that? What about the permit for Vilvoorde? Is that why there is still disagreement at the moment? Does this also have to do with the fact that there is still much to auction in the coming years? What conclusions does the government draw from the report? What impact does this report have on the lifetime extension of Objective 4 and Tihange 3? What are the main concerns of the government? What decisions are being made? What is your response as Minister of Energy to your own government's proposals on the nuclear energy of the future, the SMRs? Yesterday, a colleague made it clear that SMRs should be part of the relay plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic635x.u5	Madam Secretary, last year there has been an incredible amount of work done. The CRM was successfully completed for a price lower than expected. Furthermore, several studies that come together in the report of the FPS Economy show that security of supply and cost reduction for citizens are thus guaranteed. These are two important elements that were included in the coalition agreement. However, there is still a question mark in the file, in particular the gas plant in Vilvoorde which was not licensed. In your note to the government last Friday, you put some possible scenarios on the table. Now it is basically that the government, as set out in the coalition agreement, must take a decision on the basis of the facts that are now before us. Which scenarios are the most plausible to deal with the problem of the unauthorized power plant? Is the government ready to make the decision? If not, what elements are still missing in order to be able to conduct the debate properly?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic635x.u6	Mr President, I would like to ask you about a point of order. Is it possible, in the course of a topical debate, to speak at the time of the replies if no question has been asked?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic635x.u7	You can only speak once, either at the time of the questions or at the time of the replies.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic635x.u8	All right, Mr. President, I will reply after my colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic635x.u9	Mr President, I understand that I have to choose to take the floor when asking a question or reply. I choose to do that with the replies.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic635x.u10	One speaker may speak per political group.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic635x.u11	Mr. Cogolati, do you also reserve yourself for the reply?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic635x.u12	Mr President, this is a dilemma: will I choose the question or the reply? I'm still going to go for the first one.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic635x.u13	Normally, it's one speaker per group. I do not have a problem with this if it does not involve colleagues. But let us be brief and concise!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic635x.u14	Mr. President, don't worry! The government agreement is extremely clear and very good at the work. In one year, the least we can say is that the minister has not been unemployed! The CRM has been approved by the European Union and the first auction is a success - we talked about it just two weeks ago in our Energy Committee. We know Elia's green light. Kris Peeters said, "No, the light will not be extinguished in 2025." The approval of the Electricity and Gas Regulatory Commission (CREG) is known. The price study commissioned at the University of Caen is also known, and it is therefore known that the impact on the cost of electricity, both for households and for businesses, will be marginal. Finally, we also see the report issued by the Energy Administration. So where are we now? Finally, aren't all the cards here? Minister, I am sorry to answer the question at the same time as I ask it, but don't you have all the cards in hand to allow the government to move forward and provide full clarity to investors? When we talk with energy investors, all of us have been asking us for years to stop the procrastination of the past and finally to make a clear and clear decision to offer them a real investment framework for energy transition in Belgium after 2025. This is a huge challenge. Secondly, there is also an issue which is perhaps a little less discussed but which concerns me very much in a personal capacity because I live in the Tihange region: employment. I know that an extraordinary business council was held this morning with Thierry Saegeman, the boss of Engie Electrabel's Nuclear Business Unit, who gave social guidance and who said that jobs would be fully maintained until 2027, but that all people over 45 could finish their careers. How many jobs will be maintained throughout the dismantling phase? Often the closure is associated with a social bloodbath, but in fact it is not really a closure but rather a conversion. We are going to move from nuclear power generation to a very important process, an unprecedented project in Belgium, namely dismantling, and I really think that this must be a priority and a win-win at the same time social and economic.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic635x.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, many of the questions are about timing and transparency. In my reply, therefore, I shall confine myself to that. In this way, I do not make statements which could harm the discussions in the government. In accordance with the coalition agreement, the report on security of supply, affordability and sustainability is, after all, being discussed first in the government, but I had already promised earlier that we could also have an explanation and discussion here in Parliament. For many, the debate is sometimes reduced to the issue of the 2 gigawatt nuclear energy, but there is no contradiction between either nuclear energy or another form of energy. It is about how we can guarantee energy supplies, not just in the coming winter or in the winter of 2025-2026, but in a structural way for the many years ahead, at a time when renewable energy will have an increasing share, in which we will switch to 100 % renewable energy, in which we will be faced with a great deal of flexibility, which must also be incorporated into the system. This not only requires a sound vision, it is also an assignment in the coalition agreement. We are indeed laying a building block with that. The report, prepared by the General Executive Board (AD) Energy, assesses the impact of the auction on security of supply and on prices on the basis of the outcome of the auction. Of course, in its evaluation, the government takes further elements into account, and that is why additional reports and notes have been added to the AD Energy report. Of course, the report of the AD Energy will be published on the website of the FPS Economy. The full report, with the additional elements, will of course also be made public. I will deliver it to Parliament, but in the first instance the discussions in the government will continue. I have not said much about the mitigation measures externally, but I have said a great deal about them in the government. I have also noticed that the report has already gotten its feet and has already found its way here and there. A statement from me was quoted in the report, namely that none of the solutions is the perfect solution. It is, of course, also difficult to have the perfect solution, if one has so little time. That means that every solution comes with advantages and disadvantages. The question is which slope is the most manageable and which solution guarantees supply, is affordable and sustainable. I have not been idle in these three aspects. The CRM has been worked out, the relevant regulations have been finalised, the CRM has been approved by the European Commission and the auction has taken place. In terms of affordability, the energy standard has just been approved by the Energy Committee without any vote against. I have always said, partly on the basis of a slide you have seen several times, that CRM and security of supply are Siamese twins. On sustainability, there are already projects under the Relance Plan, but I also mention the ambition of the objectives to be achieved by wind at sea, the interconnection with Denmark, on which questions are still on the agenda, and the hydrogen strategy. In addition, mitigation measures are needed to alleviate the concerns of the various slopes. These mitigation measures will be discussed further in the government and I will explain them in committee as soon as there is consensus in the government. As far as timing is concerned, we are indeed working towards a decision by the end of the year. With regard to employment issues, I took note of what was announced by the operator this morning. We have always said, and I have repeated here on several occasions, that the closure, the exit that will happen (five of the seven plants will close) is a reality that is binding on us with its consequences for the three aspects: security of supply, betaalbaarheid and sustainability. We always have these questions, and we need to look at them. I have always said that exit and closure must be organized in an orderly manner, both industrially and technically, but also socially and humanly. I am pleased that the operator is taking social measures that go far enough. The first responsibility is that of the operator. I will not interfere; it is up to the workers to decide on this further. I come to Mr Verduyckt's questions. We have just discussed the impact of the high prices under the programme law. We've approved a large part of that. We have taken initiatives and taken care with the government that we could use the additional VAT revenue to finance, among other things, the extension of the social tariff. Your question was mainly about the slopes suggested for further skimming off nuclear interest rates. These slopes covered two aspects, including de facto expropriation of nuclear installations. If we are no longer interested in exploitation, we may be able to allow someone else to exploit it. That does not seem to me to be something that can be imposed by law, but it would amount to a de facto expropriation. However, the right to property is protected by the first protocol to the European Convention on Human Rights. In that sense, I do not know whether this is realistic. Quite apart from the question of whether it is realistic, I have seen that the operator himself has expressed his opinion on this in the press. After all, they are pistes that are mainly suggested in the press. I read one thing first and then the other. Engie's reaction was that it wasn't relevant. In that sense, Mr Verduyckt, I can give you this consideration.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic635x.u16	Madam Secretary, the big question is how you proceed with the story. I hear you saying that there is actually no contradiction between energy forms. I am pleased that you recognise that renewable energy and nuclear energy can go together to ensure the best possible energy mix. At the same time, over the past year, you have not made any visible efforts to keep alive the scenario of extending the life of the two nuclear power plants, in order to ensure that this remains possible. We are now in a situation with an unexpected supply security problem. You cannot tell us today how you will solve Vilvoorde's problem, nor whether Les Awirs will be built as planned, given the pending procedure. There is an urgent need for decisions in this area. You best ensure that all slopes remain open so that the right choices can be made, because there will be work to be done. In any case, we will not wait to ask questions about your notes until you have published them officially.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic635x.u17	For the Ecolo Green Group, it is quite clear that the future is 100 % renewable energy. We need to clear the way for the power switch. The closure of nuclear power plants is an opportunity, an opportunity for renewable energy producers from, for example, the Kempen who are ready to invest. You said yourself that the goal is clear, but that no road to it is the perfect solution. There are important pillars such as security of supply, affordability and sustainability. It is clear that you are working on all three and that you have put on the table for all three runs. The extension of the life of the last two nuclear power plants is not evident either. The cost of the safety of these plants could amount to EUR 1.5 billion, and we are not talking about waste. What are we going to do with the garbage and what will it cost us? Even if we extend the life of those last two nuclear power plants, we will still need additional capacity. Can this be done with the current CRM scheme? In other words, no road is easy, but for us the goal is very clear, namely the energy switch to 100 % renewable energy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic635x.u18	Today, as in the debates we have had on this matter in previous weeks, you are once again turning around the pot. You say that we must look at a structural solution and a structural way of working. That is precisely our concern, and there is no structural solution today. Mrs Buyst thinks that we should make decisions on the basis of the facts that are now before us. On the basis of the facts now before us, I would say that security of supply has been compromised. Everything related to nuclear waste keeps coming back. That is a non-debate, especially when we talk about a lifetime extension. This is not about 40 more years for those old nuclear power plants. We need to stop approaching that whole story dogmatically. You say that no statements should be made that could harm the discussions within the government. You say that, of course, because there is no common ground within your own government. There are members of your own government who come to many committees to say that SMRs should be part of the energy mix of the future. You cannot, of course, say that there is no consensus with your liberal partners. It is starting to be an embarrassing stage, especially when one sees Alexander De Croo being sent out to the operator as a kind of messiah to hear what the possibilities are. Madam Secretary, the people are asking questions, and the companies are asking questions. I believe that there is still little credibility for this government, especially when it comes to the energy supply and the energy mix of the future. You're just buying time. You do not want to say today what the conclusions of the report are, let alone give them the necessary transparency. However, Parliament has a right to do so. I find that a little embarrassing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic635x.u19	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. In the coalition agreement, the core exit was clearly confirmed, but you had to come up with a report on security of supply first. For CD&V, three aspects are important. Firstly, it is about sustainability. The transition has started and we support all possible investments in renewable energy. In any case, five plants will be shut down. Secondly, it is about affordability. Several studies have already shown that there are no large price differences for consumers or businesses, whether there are five or seven plants closing down. In addition, we are taking measures to keep everything affordable, for example the energy standard. Thirdly, there is security of supply. That is where the shoe is pinching, because there is currently insufficient certainty about this. The questions have been asked, but we have not yet received an answer. What happens to the Vilvoorde plant? What's the operator gonna do? Is Plan B no longer possible or no longer feasible? Madam Secretary, you are a technocrat and you are doing very well. We expect you to come up with all the figures, including those of Plan B, and that the best possible scenario can be chosen in all transparency. CD&V will not stick you in the wheels. Nor will we play the father-in-law of this government, the security of supply for families and businesses deserves much better than that. We hope that all possible scenarios can be discussed in the nuclear cabinet and, above all, that a solution will be found very quickly. After all, our families and businesses deserve much better than uncertainty and uncertainty. I hope that a real decision will be taken for New Year, preferably in cooperation with all the energy ministers in this country.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic635x.u20	Madam Secretary, you have correctly outlined the three criteria. As far as sustainability is concerned, we were relieved that only two plants came out of that auction. One power station is still uncertain today, creating a problem for security of supply. That is a matter that the government must certainly clarify. Then there's affordability. EnergyVille's study dates back a few years ago and a new study has been carried out. Today I am no longer convinced that extending the life of the power stations is the cheaper option. In my view, some people are confusing this with the low production price of those deprecated power stations. I have the impression that it poisons the debate. From your explanation of the proposal of the president of the MR, in particular an expropriation, I would say that I had read it correctly. I also thought it was a bizarre proposal. It has become a very fierce debate, especially at the MR and the N-VA, just the two largest parties in the previous government. An energy pact was concluded in March 2018 and it was decided to extend the core exit. What strikes me today is that fierceness against it. It is incomprehensible to me when I see that an energy pact was concluded in March 2018. The agreement in the coalition agreement is very clear, there are criteria. For us, it is particularly important that we cut the buttons, far away from that non-stop policy of recent years.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic635x.u21	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, thank you all for your interventions. I would like to make a few brief remarks. First of all, the transparency and disclosure of all the documents on which this government is based in order to move forward in its decision-making process, which is not yet complete. Today you seem to be expanding the scope by being more open to working on Plan A of the government agreement, which is yours (the CRM, gas plants, the total nuclear output); and Plan B, which provides that if there is an unforeseen problem, at least two reactors are extended, which obviously also requires work that, forgive me, you have been slow to do. Unfortunately, all these documents are in the hands of the government. I can understand that the government has priority. But they are not at all in the hands of the body which must control, nevertheless, in the interests of the citizens, the action of the government, that is to say Parliament. There, it really is a problem; because if we have the documents after the situation, that is, long after the decision, it is no longer strictly useful. Although we will have all the details, we will be ineffective in terms of control and attention to the policy developed by the government. That's the first point. The second point is that there is a security of supply problem, whatever the studies say; not only because of the lack of permits for one of the two new gas plants, but also in itself, in the situation as we know it, as we know our energy system, and when we see the capabilities that it is able to call to pass through a total or even partial exit from nuclear power. Interconnections are very interesting tools, which have developed more and more since 2010-2012. That is why there has been less investment in our production fleet at that time and since that time. But they are less and less guaranteed, because the overcapacity in the countries around us is also becoming less and less guaranteed. So we see this already in the Elias report, which makes an annual report on the evolution of CRM for the years 2026-2027. There was the first report, which we had the opportunity to go through with Elia in committee on 16 November. It was the year 2025-2026. Now there's the new report on 2026-2027. We already see that the interconnections, for example, which were planned in the first report at 1935 megawatts - we can discuss this, but that is the number that is quoted - are now already greatly reduced by 507 megawatts in the following report. For the year 2026-2027, Elia already believes much less in interconnection capacity. That's the second element. The third element is the following. A series of signals are sent to us, not only from within the company but also from within the company. I understand that neither you nor the government have to interfere with what is happening in the company, where we are trying to retain staff by putting on the table significant financial resources. Those over 45 years of age are promised to complete their careers in the company. We promise another year's pay to the others. As we read in the press this weekend, there is still a very large proportion of executives and employees who benefit from a scale that will leave the company if there is no extension of at least two plants, so if there is no extension at all. This will obviously pose additional security of supply problems because, of course, these large infrastructures are operated by people who must at all times ensure their safety, respond to procedures that are extremely complex and methodical. If there are no longer enough personnel to operate in these plants, in a critical way, they may well not be producing now, until 2025. So we're not even talking about the period after 2025, we're talking about the period before 2025. In this connection, as part of the negotiations that you are about to start with Electrabel for the extension of two reactors, what I think is absolutely essential is a special attention to be paid to this staff, who have been providing more than half of our electricity in this country for more than 40 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic635x.u22	Madam Secretary, today the ball is in the government's camp, which is working on it. Of course, I can't sit down or sit down and say I'm worried. We face a great challenge and it is difficult to make a good choice. I am indeed concerned about that. I certainly cannot share the way in which the facts are presented by some of my fellow Members here. My reading of the situation and of the information and documents provided for the vibratory issue of security of supply, affordability and climate impact differs from that. Madam Secretary, you have spoken with great enthusiasm about the CRM. That was necessary, but ultimately the CRM is a necessary evil, which is the result of a difficult and far from perfect process of energy transition, which we started from 2003. I say this with a great deal of modesty, because I am part of a party that sits in the government, now and in the previous legislature with another party, which has also spoken here. If we are in this situation, it is a collective responsibility of all past governments. In this context, there is an evolution, with priorities, attention and a social focus. Now the climate problem is coming to the fore. There is still a lot of discussion about how green nuclear energy is. That only confirms my concern. My personal analysis, when it comes to security of supply, and yes, sometimes we may have to turn off the light a little more often, is that the impact on price is very much underestimated. A classically trained economist said in De Standaard about the labour market that it was enough to pay more so that the problem would resolve itself. I fear that as far as energy is concerned, and I am not talking about short-term fluctuations in the long-term, affordability will remain an issue, apart from the whole climate issue. Everyone can interpret these two sentences in the coalition agreement, but I sincerely hope and wish that we make the best possible choice between two far from perfect options. We must remain realistic, and I say this as an entrepreneur. It is a structurally very difficult situation. After all, a government always reacts too late, because it has to play with open cards, while we live in a country with twelve parties, seven of which are part of the present and other parties of the previous government. In short, the dossier will be on our mind for a long time to come. I wish you and the government much wisdom to make the right decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic635x.u23	Mr President, I should like to point out that you failed to give me the floor when I asked for it. I listened very carefully to every colleague. I will remind you of a series of factual elements. First of all, the debates that have been taking place in this Parliament for several months are within the framework of the 2003 Act, which no government has called into question. Secondly, we are moving forward within the framework of a clear government agreement. If there is a clear element in this agreement, it is this one! I would like to reiterate here the support of my political group for the respect of this path. In the last few weeks, there has been a noise calling for the extension of two plants, sometimes in a peremptory and very assertive tone: to prolong them, it would only have to be decided! The rational management of the State requires transparency and transparency as to the conditions, difficulties and obstacles that would arise under this scenario. Does the law need to be amended? What are the deadlines and implications? Is an environmental impact study necessary? If so, how long is it necessary to do so? What is the time frame for obtaining fuel? What is the risk knowing that obviously we do not have an industrial partner? What are the possible financial implications of an extension? Nobody ever really talks about it! No one is able to argue or support it with figures. What investments would the AFCN demand? What would be the time frame for ensuring security of supply? Is there any impact on nuclear supplies? All these questions find no rational answer today, except speculation or suppositions. I therefore call for transparency: let us answer these questions, clarify this scenario and assess the shortest possible path to security of supply and control of energy prices. Another element that I want to highlight and which we talk too little about is the issue of employment. What are the plans to preserve employment in the best possible way? This is an issue that we are extremely attentive to. I repeat: let us make transparency without calling into question the path we have decided together in the framework of the government agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic635x.u24	Minister, on 23 September 2021, the NGO Oxfam Belgium published a report, "Fueling human rights violations, Consequences of EU and Belgian biofuel policies in northern Peru", which highlights the negative social, environmental and climatic impacts of sugar cane cultivation to produce biofuel in the Peruvian region of the Chira Valley. These impacts include the violation of fundamental human rights, the reduction of areas traditionally used by local populations for food, deforestation, water scarcity and pollution of the population's direct environment. This report indicates that our country would have been involved in the investment in the plantation of the Chira Valley under study – a stake of approximately €6.5 million started in 2010 – and that since 2014, imports of biofuels produced from sugar cane, specifically sugar cane ethanol, have increased by 20. Have you read this report? If so, can we have your return to him? Can we also have your feedback on Belgian investment in the Peruvian plantation under study? Furthermore, the transposition into Belgian law of the European RED II Directive, which deals with the use of biofuels in transport, is planned for this autumn, can we be informed of the progress made in this regard? Can we get information on how to take account of biofuel production conditions?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic635x.u25	Indeed, I have read with great attention the rather disturbing findings of this study. This report provides a concrete overview of several of the direct and indirect negative effects of massive biomass demand for biofuel production, in particular first-generation biofuels. As stated in the Government Agreement, the federal government is constantly focusing on good governance, including the rule of law and human rights. This must also be reflected in our foreign and trade policy. After contacting my colleague in charge of Development Cooperation, Minister Meryame Kitir, regarding the role of BIO in this concrete case, it appears that BIO has already withdrawn from this project after a year. However, the Government is also concerned about the coherence of development policies with other policy areas. In implementing the RED II Directive, the risks of human rights violations, land grabbing, violation of women's rights, slavery, indirect emissions of greenhouse gases are an important aspect that I wish to include in the legislative framework. On Friday, 10 September, the Council of Ministers approved a royal decree which provides for the phasing out of the incentive for biofuels produced from palm oil and soy oil, respectively on 1 January 2023 and 1 July of the same year. The scientific basis for the negative effects of these raw materials on many sustainable development goals is therefore so broad that the federal government has decided to phase them out as soon as possible, taking into account investment security. Biofuels produced from other raw materials must also be assessed on the basis of these criteria. Where appropriate, the legislative framework should be adapted and strengthened. Discussions on this issue are ongoing within the government. I hope I can discuss this in more detail with you in the near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic635x.u26	Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic635x.u27	Question No 55021920C by Mr Daniel Senesael is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic635x.u28	The Roadmap to net zero study presents the vision of the Network Manager for the construction of a climate-neutral energy system by 2050. This study develops an analysis of two scenarios towards climate neutrality: the ELEC (electricity) route and the MOL (moleculars) route - the first assuming an increase of 70% in current electricity demand in Europe; the second, an increase of only 30% due to the integration of a larger share of green molecules into electricity consumption. As regards Belgium, under both scenarios, "about half of Belgium's direct electricity demand in 2050 will have to be covered by non-domestic renewable energy sources". In this respect, however, the study states that "this should not be a problem because Belgium is well situated: it has a coastline of the North Sea where sufficient offshore RES potential is available". Can we have your feedback on Elia's study and, in particular, on the two scenarios mentioned? To what extent could this study influence our country's energy policy in the years to come? Can we also have your feedback on Elia's prediction that about half of our country's electricity demand will have to come from non-Belgian renewable energy sources? The study states that "Belgium will have to establish international partnerships with other EU Member States as well as with the United Kingdom and Norway". We know that several cooperation protocols on offshore electricity and molecules have been signed in recent months. Can we have an overview of the proposed cooperation projects? Have quantified targets been established within this framework? Finally, can we know what follow-up will be given to Elia's recommendations, particularly with regard to the speed of sustainable development and the prioritization of electrification?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic635x.u29	Mr Ben Achour, this study confirms that the future of 100% renewable energy lies both in renewable electricity and in renewable molecules. Elia proposes a number of scenarios and also provides some policy recommendations. The market will gradually specify where the exact balance between electricity and molecules will be. The two paths must therefore be further developed, each where they can best contribute to the objective. Scenarios need to be discussed further with market participants as well as with our natural gas manager Fluxys, who continues to develop hydrogen scenarios. It is important that we achieve jointly defined scenarios. There was already a co-operation between our two network operators, Fluxys and Elia. I find it encouraging that, in a renewable and flexible future, our two network operators are cooperating more, in a spirit of system interaction. As you rightly point out, Elia's study also confirms our policy of continuing to focus on the import of renewable electricity and renewable molecules. With regard to the quantities required, this Elia study gives an idea of the electrical interconnections needed. A new interconnection to the United Kingdom (Nautilus) and Denmark (Triton) is under consideration. The capacity of these projects is examined, for each project, on the basis of available technologies and business boxes per project within the framework of the climate neutrality target in 2050 and the contribution to it by project. As far as renewable molecules are concerned, indications are available in my "Hydrogen" strategy. In this context, a cooperation agreement was concluded with Namibia and the Sultanate of Oman. In our international relations, we mainly choose to create links where there are already companies present in the country concerned. In Oman, DEME has a major project to produce and transport renewable energy and hydrogen in the form of ammonia. In Namibia, the Belgian Maritime Company (CMB) has a project which is rather focused on the greening of our ships and which aims to include hydrogen with regard to the seaway. Oman and South Africa therefore bring geopolitical diversification. You're asking me what my prospects are. Today, there is nothing concrete, but I do not hide from you that I also wish to move towards North Africa. I am thinking, for example, of Morocco or Egypt, which are closer countries and which also offer opportunities for the transport of hydrogen. As far as electrical interconnections are concerned, there is the European Commission's offshore strategy. This makes a lot of noise in the various Member States of the European Union, but also in countries that are not members today, such as Norway. Everyone has projects to develop and, among them, in Norway, there may be opportunities for Belgium. Two projects are already on the table with Great Britain and Denmark. I hope that the cooperation agreements concluded will succeed. There is no point in it remaining only in paper form. There is always a roadplan and we must find the right balance between an idea of partnership and the realization of projects. In addition, electricity is important when it comes to improving efficiency. This is also highlighted in our hydrogen strategy. Electric cars and heat pumps are a clear example of electrification. Both are not only more efficient and sustainable than alternatives to fossil fuels, but can also make an important contribution to the flexibility of the electrical system. Therefore, batteries and demand management are also supported in the CRM context. To further support the flexibility and deployment of electric cars, Minister Van Peteghem has put in place a tax advantage for charging stations. We have worked together to make them intelligent and controllable, so that they can also be integrated into the future energy system. Elia's recommendations go beyond electrification and deserve our utmost attention to be included in the policy. It is also a matter of tripling the development of renewable electricity production. I've already started tripling offshore wind power, but the North Sea offers even more potential than we need to explore further.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic635x.u30	Madam Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive answer. However, there is a lack of information on the timing of collaborations with the countries you have cited. We will return, unless you can give us the answer right away.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic635x.u31	Your question about Denmark follows.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic635x.u32	Yes, it is. But about Oman, Namibia, northern Africa, for example? That's interesting.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic635x.u33	We could organise an in-depth reflection on the various agreements we have reached. This would provide an opportunity to present its perspectives and details. Oman has a trilateral program with Germany also for certification. This is essential. If we import molecules, we must ensure that they are green. For Namibia, it's different. Perhaps this should be discussed in depth. If you propose it, I will come to present these agreements with great pleasure.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic635x.u34	Madam President, Madam Minister, on 23 November we learned of the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding with Denmark. This is an issue that we have already had an opportunity to discuss in committee. The purpose of this protocol is to connect the Belgian and Danish wind farms by means of a direct current submarine cable with a capacity of 1.4 GW Triton Link. In this connection, a study entitled Bon vent: setting sail for a climate neutral Belgian energy system, carried out by the Federal Planning Office in October 2021, indicates that 3 GW could be provided in addition to Belgium and Denmark through the construction of an offshore hybrid hub in Danish waters. Minister, could you give us more information about this? Finally, what are the objectives in terms of the share of renewable electricity in Belgian consumption that can be expected to be achieved through the Belgian-Danish projects? Has a study been carried out on the impact of the connection between our two countries on the energy bill? We have come to the conclusion that this project could reduce price increases and have a positive effect on the price of electricity, something that could benefit businesses, but also and especially households. Can we have you back on this? It should be noted that the cost of implementing the Triton Link was estimated by Elia's CEO between EUR 900 million and EUR 1.2 billion, a cost to be shared between Belgium and Denmark. Do we already know if this cost is likely to impact our citizens and their energy bills? The study by the Federal Planning Office mentions a scenario taking into account the installation of two hybrid hubs in Danish and Dutch territorial waters – the capacity of the first to move to 10 GW against 3 GW in the first scenario, the second to be estimated at 15 GW with links between the hub and the United Kingdom, Belgium and the Netherlands. Can we have your feedback on this and, in particular, on the concrete possibilities of carrying out this second scenario?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic635x.u35	Madam President, Mr Ben Achour, the Triton Link between Belgium and Denmark under study has a capacity of 2 GW, while offshore wind farms connected to the Danish wind turbine will have a capacity of 3 GW in a first phase and 10 GW in a second. The objective of the agreement signed with Denmark is precisely to prepare a detailed study of the Triton Link cost-benefit analysis for both our countries, but also for others such as Germany, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands and Luxembourg. Here too, savings of carbon dioxide will be possible thanks to the Triton Link. This analysis will also show the benefits to market prices, our industries and citizens. Access to renewable energy is essential and will become even more so for investment decisions taken by industries in Belgium. You rightly stated in your question that a sale cost should be shared between Belgium and Denmark. As this project will generate benefits for other countries as well, this cost sharing is necessary. In a later phase, it will be necessary to examine the possibility of committing European subsidies, in particular through the safe money of Connecting Europe Facility, i.e. European funds for projects that have a strategic link to connect different countries. As you say, of course you have to worry about the cost, besides the profits. A business case must therefore be drawn up for this purpose. I must tell you that our two countries believe in this, but also that this project must be supported by more in-depth costing studies that indicate its impact on reality. Moreover, the study by the Federal Planning Office shows the consequences of the scenario for Denmark and the Netherlands. Discussions with Denmark have become more concrete. Denmark has a surplus of renewable energy, so there is a great mutual interest for our two countries. With regard to the discussions with the Netherlands, we understood in our contacts that this should be discussed with the future new government. The Netherlands has very high ambitions: 22 gigawatts under construction. We're following closely what's going on there. Collaboration may develop in the near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic635x.u36	Minister, this is another very interesting and structuring project for our future energy mix. You haven't answered about the impact on the bill, but I can understand that. It's probably a little early. We know our concern about security of supply and the green nature of the energy we consume, but all this must be done in the context of affordable prices for households and businesses. As soon as you have details on the subject, please do not hesitate to communicate them to us.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic635x.u37	Madam Secretary, in the past I have already asked you about methane emissions at Fluxys. We know that this percentage is very low: 0.02% of the volumes transported. However, if you transport a lot of volume, it still remains a lot of gas. That means thousands of tons of gas are lost in that way. Recently, the European Gas Research Group, in which the Netherlands participates, will investigate various techniques to further reduce methane emissions. It seems that Fluxys does not participate in that project, although Fluxys could also draw the necessary lessons from it. Will Fluxys participate in the project? Why is that, or why not? How do the methane emissions of Fluxys evolve? Which slopes will Fluxys follow to further reduce those methane emissions? I mean other slopes than the already announced reduction in pneumatic emissions, the campaigns to search for leaks and the reduction in emissions from interventions, where pipes often have to be emptied with the result that natural gas escapes to the outside world.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic635x.u38	Mr Wollants, Fluxys is committed to reducing its greenhouse gas emissions, such as methane. This is part of its "Go for net zero" project, which aims to halve greenhouse gas emissions by 2025 compared to 2017. Between 2017 and 2020, methane emissions were reduced from 142 to 103 kilotons of CO2 equivalent, a 27 percent reduction. This has mainly been made possible by the three measures you identified, namely reducing pneumatic emissions, leak detection and repair campaigns, and reducing emissions from interventions. Other solutions are also being studied and will be applied if the analysis is positive. Fluxys participates in the European Gas Research Group through its sector federation Synergrid. This group is active in research to improve the natural gas supply chain and is therefore also interested in solutions to reduce methane emissions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic635x.u39	Madam Minister, we need to keep the pressure high enough so that everyone accepts their responsibilities, knowing that Fluxys scores well compared to other transmission system operators, but the company must also continue to score well. I will therefore continue to insist on this point, in order to ensure that we continue to move in the right direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic635x.u40	Madam Minister, I was able to speak at the meeting with the CREG this morning, but I would like to ask you this question. Those dynamic contracts have been a new feature since April of this year. I did hear from the CREG this morning that very few people opt for it. I am a little concerned about this, the same concerns that the CREG has already raised. With what we have been through over the past few weeks and months, I would like to know what the first experience of this is. What do you find out about that? How do you look at that? If I understand correctly, a regulation has been in force since 1 April which will make sure that all the big ones are obliged to offer these contracts anyway. Could you give me some more information on that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic635x.u41	Madam President, Mr Verduyckt, I asked the CREG for an update on your question, so it will be partly the same information. At present, only Engie Electrabel offers such contracts on the retail market. At the moment it is still about a very limited number of contracts. The exact number is confidential information, which we cannot provide without the consent of the suppliers. The price evolution follows the evolution of wholesale markets, but what consumers will pay depends heavily on their individual consumption profile. Indeed, after the transposition of the EMD Directive, suppliers with more than 200,000 customers will be required to offer a dynamic price-based contract. Whether there will be an attractive offer for the customers depends, of course, on the commercial choices of the suppliers. The most interesting aspect of your question is how I look at it. We have talked about this before. I will repeat part of it, but I will also add something new. I met in Glasgow Octopus Energy, an English supplier offering dynamic contracts. This company has put preventive protection measures in the supply of dynamic contracts to customers. The reduction is followed when the price drops, but when the price rises, they have determined that it cannot exceed a certain level. They see that within their customer portfolio the so-called early adopters, the best informed people, go to such a project, but that this does have an effect on customer behaviour, because the potential negatives are flattened. This feedback has also been given to me by the CREG, and we have discussed it before. In terms of consumer protection, we must deal with this proactively. That is one aspect which I expect to be sufficiently developed in the review of the consumer agreement. I believe in dynamic contracts in the context of the energy transition, but I do not believe that we should allow the market to move freely here. After all, I already know what will happen: there will be a price peak and the newspapers will be full of people who are faced with the one-on-one calculation of that price peak. If we know that now, we have to anticipate that. However, I do believe that we should not over-regulation. We should not stop the market in advance, so I am certainly open to suggestions from the market players themselves. However, I have to admit that I have little input from that side. So, Mr Verduyckt, it must come from us, from you here in Parliament and from me in the government. We have already shown that we can set up very efficient cooperation in the field of consumer protection. This was done in the short term if we had to intervene because of something we did not consider desirable and in the long term in order to prevent these practices from being structural. I refer to our joint work on dormant products. That was, of course, a reaction afterwards, but as far as those dynamic contracts are concerned, we should indeed act in advance. Informed choice and informed consent are very important. We can also be inspired by examples from abroad, such as in England. There are already more of these contracts. That is the way the CREG wants to go, by the way. As far as dynamic contracts are concerned, she has always pointed out to me that consumer protection is very important to her. I'm sure she said that here too. We must not only be able to use the opportunities offered by these contracts, but also to eliminate the high risks.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic635x.u42	Madam Minister, first of all I would like to reassure you, the CREG says the same thing to you as to Parliament. That is a good thing. You set a good example, because that is indeed my concern. The early adopters, the people who are really working on it, will effectively see the benefits of these kinds of contracts. I'm not worried about them. I am mainly here for the people who are not very good at dealing with this and who, if this is to be rolled out more widely, may end up with such a contract by some kind of promotion. Then such formulas are interesting. As for the input, my resume always said that I was very dynamic. So it will be possible to come up with something for dynamic products. We're definitely gonna do that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic635x.u43	Minister, this is not the first time that I have asked you about this and, although I am fully aware that the final decision lies with the Walloon government, and in this case with Minister Borsus, who has since the beginning indicated that he would take on his responsibilities. I wanted to question you in the light of a whole series of new elements. At the end of October, the Revolht association, which brings together thousands of inhabitants firmly opposed to the project of the Loop du Hainaut as currently proposed by Elia, had proposed an alternative to the current plan. This alternative was characterized by the burial of DC lines, rather than AC high-voltage overhead lines. A research group from the University of Mons has been asked to do this and has shown that this possibility of direct current burial is feasible subject to certain conditions. This has therefore raised some hopes for the inhabitants of the communes crossed but also of the Revolht association which has been struggling since the beginning. Have you learned of Revolht's counter-proposal? What is your position, as well as that of your firm, on this matter? The final decision will be taken by your colleague, Minister Borsus, but your colleague in charge of spatial planning in the Walloon government has recently said that this proposal should be technically analysed and that any alternatives to the Elias project would be thoroughly studied. Can we be informed of any discussions you have with your colleague? To what extent do you intend to monitor and possibly participate in this work of expertise? What will be the impact of this work on Elia's overall project?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic635x.u44	Mr Prévot, you are asking me about the project of the Loop du Hainaut and I have heard what you are saying. This isn't the first time, and I know you're not the only one at the manoeuvring. Indeed, this project is regularly referred to in committee. I will begin by clearly stressing that the procedure of the Hainaut Loop is currently in the hands of the Walloon Region. The process is therefore under way at the regional level and it is not on the agenda to move forward on the results of this process. Shortly after my term of office began, I was contacted by members of the Revolht group with whom I exchanged views on this project, explaining that the project is part of the Federal Development Plan and that it is now up to the government to investigate and process the matter. I have not received from Revolht the alternative proposal that you are referring to. That is logical, since the position on this proposal does not belong to me, but falls within the competence of the Walloon Government. In addition, for your questions about the content, impact or analysis of this proposal, I also refer you to the Walloon authorities. But with regard to the interaction between the federal level and the Walloon Region, a working group regio overschreidende prijken (transregional projects) has already been set up for two years. Major network infrastructure projects are discussed, such as the Loop du Hainaut and the Ventilus project in Flanders. As soon as this working group was set up, a clear need was identified for coordination and facilitation between the administrative processes linked to the permits of the various authorities in the fields of energy, land-use planning and the environment. In order to highlight the important work of this working group and to enable it to genuinely facilitate administrative processes, I have sent letters to my competent colleagues from the Walloon, Flemish and Brussels governments, inviting them to strengthen their representation in this working group. The working group met last week and I found that my colleagues in the Walloon government - involved in the issue of the Hainaut Loop - were indeed well represented. I am very pleased with this and see it as a sign of a concerted attitude. Indeed, I am convinced that only an attitude of cooperation, consultation and mutual support will enable us to achieve the common objectives of the various trans-regional projects - such as the Loop du Hainaut - which are part of the energy transition and support for the economic development of the regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-07-definitief-55-commissie-ic635x.u45	Indeed, Minister, it is a project that is regularly discussed. I hear that at your cabinet level, deciding on this procedure is not on the agenda. This one's still in progress. You did not officially receive this alternative which was diligently done by Revolht but also validated by the Umons. For your personal edification, I will ask the members of the Revolht group to send it to you personally. I have no doubt that you will find, during the truce of the confectioners, a little time to take a careful look at it. I know, of course, that the outcome of this issue will depend, as I said at the outset, on Minister Borsus. But I have no doubt that this very large-scale project is part of Elia's federal and even international policy. The outcome of this case will obviously have consequences at national level. I promised, especially to the members of the Revolht group, to ask you again. I will certainly come back to you if there are any other steps in the current procedure.
