ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic608x.u1	Mr President, Minister, on 12 July 2017, a code of conduct was concluded between banks and independent bank agents. The code of conduct was signed by Febelfin, bzb and Fedafin with the aim of improving relations between banks and independent bank agents. This concerns, for example, a series of agreements on commercial leases, restructuring and information.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic608x.u2	Mrs Depraetere, the code of conduct has never been evaluated since its introduction on 1 January 2018. In order to make such an evaluation possible, an evaluation committee had to be set up, as set out in the Code of Conduct. That is why the evaluation committee has been set up, which is currently drawing up an internal regulation. The implementation and interpretation of the Code of Conduct will then be monitored. The evaluation of the Code will be carried out in a second phase. The initial intention of the code of conduct was to formalise the relationship between the bank and the independent bank agents in order to protect the agent. Since we are still at the very beginning of the implementation process of the evaluation committee, I do not have all the information necessary to ensure that the code of conduct meets that objective correctly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic608x.u3	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I regularly get the message that the independent bank agents are in a very difficult relationship of power and that the code of conduct does not always provide adequate protection. It's a good thing you're doing an evaluation so that we can follow this up.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic608x.u4	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Joris Vandenbroucke's 55021382C is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic608x.u5	Even if there is no price control in Belgium, it remains important to raise awareness of the sector in order to achieve greater transparency and to ensure that the needs of the customer are better taken into account when placing such products. However, such awareness campaigns are not currently on the agenda. However, actions have been undertaken by the FSMA, in the context of its supervision and the communications it publishes, to highlight the importance of cost transparency and to ensure that insurance distributors offer their customers products tailored to their needs and needs. At European level, the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority is working on the implementation of product governance rules. These rules, which result from the European directive on insurance distribution, aim to protect consumers' interests even better. There are currently no other legislative initiatives. The question will be further examined before any legislative initiative is taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic608x.u6	Thank you, Minister, for your enlightening answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic608x.u7	This morning, Minister, we in this committee adopted a resolution on the right to be forgotten. If it is also adopted in plenary shortly, it will certainly end up with you. It calls on the federal government to investigate a number of cases. One of these is the obligation to notify the right to be forgotten. Now it is very often unclear. This is also reflected in the many opinions that have been addressed in connection with the resolution. For example, the insurer may no longer take into account a number of conditions once the deadline has expired, but it still regularly requests information. Even within the time limit, additional medical information is often requested that is not in fact necessary, or is not required to communicate it to the insurer. There's some discussion about that. In the worst case scenario, this practice ensures that a person is denied his insurance or that his contribution increases considerably. These are practices that are absolutely not just for people who have been ill. I wonder whether the reporting system is sufficiently clear. On this point, an amendment to our resolution has been adopted to examine it, but perhaps you are already working on it, or do you already have an idea of it? Then, of course, it could go a lot faster. Is there not a better way to ensure that there is no longer any need for additional information, once the deadline is over and once someone has been treated and cured? My second question is in the same vein. After the 10-year period, a risk assessment is no longer necessary. However, the law does not speak in terms of a right to erase the data or a limitation of the reporting obligation. In France, for example, it is. There are different rules. It's a lot more stringent. What is your view, Minister? Have you had that checked out yet?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic608x.u8	Mrs Depraetere, the obligation to communicate is a protective measure for the prospective insurer. In this way, it is avoided that a candidate insurance company would wrongly not report certain medical records to the insurer that should have been reported. In such a case, the prospective insurer would be exposed to the consequences of concealment or incorrect communication of data, in particular an amendment or nullity of the contract. In order to protect the prospective insurer from this, the legislation lays down a responsibility not to take certain medical records into account by the insurer. So I do not think it is appropriate to abolish the obligation to communicate. The purpose of the processing of the medical data after a period of 10 years, or, where appropriate, the shorter period, is to enable the insurer to assess for itself which medical records should not be taken into account. The obligation to communicate thus protects the prospective insurer. I do not see the views of the Data Protection Authority on this. Both the FPS Economy and the insurance ombudsman are not aware of complaints.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic608x.u9	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The resolution adopted contains a clear demand from this committee, and from Parliament, for even better protection for people. This may not be done through the obligation to communicate, but there are certainly other ways to extend and better anchor that right. That resolution will certainly come to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic608x.u10	Minister, the inhabitants of my commune, Morlanwelz, are worried, but they are also angry. A few years ago, Belfius closed his agency in Carnières. After the closure, there were no more banking agencies, nor did there be any contact in this locality of 8,000 inhabitants, where I live and which belongs to the municipal entity of Morlanwelz. Today we learn of Belfius' intention to close also its banking agency in Morlanwelz, from 15 November, because of the rationalization of costs. I already found it serious to close an agency in a locality of 8,000 people (Carnières). But now it is a commune with a total of 20,000! Is it really too little to maintain an agency? How many do you need: 50,000, 100,000? A few weeks ago, you replied to my colleague Roberto D的Amico, here, that citizens should continue to be able to benefit from the proximity of banking services. I don't think closing agencies guarantees proximity. It would be shocking if it were the closure of a private bank, but it is even more from a bank wholly owned by the state. This bank belongs to the people, who paid dearly for the bank's protection during the banking crisis of 2008. Minister, the government to which you belong represents the shareholder of Belfius Bank, its decision-maker. So my question is simple: will you prevent the closure of the Belfius agency in Morlanwelz?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic608x.u11	Mr President, I thank the honourable Member for his question. I would like to take this opportunity to reaffirm that citizens must be able to continue to benefit from and benefit from local and near-home banking services. The decline in the number of distributors and agencies throughout the country is unacceptable and the situation is even more worrying in a range of rural areas. I know what I'm talking about, coming from this beautiful rurality, which is part of our country. The problem of the disappearance of ATMs has been known for a number of years and some solutions have been implemented, which continue to be improved and need to be improved, but they are not sufficient. I have had the opportunity to express my concern and doubts in this House. In addition, in recent years, there has also been a gradual and drastic decrease in the number of banking agencies. Some banks no longer wish to maintain their proximity network, and that is unacceptable to me again. Important steps must be taken to ensure that everyone has access to banking services. That is why I have asked the National Bank to analyse certain avenues to ensure the presence of distributors as well as to ensure the best possible existence of a local bank throughout the national territory. The results of this request are expected by the end of October at the latest. I think we will have an opportunity to discuss it again and discuss it in this committee or elsewhere. I also believe that Belfius, as a bank wholly owned by the State, must be exemplary in this respect. In addition to the inquiry in Belfius, I would also point out to you that, as you may know, honourable Member, the seventh bpost management contract provides for a commitment to make available to consumers at least 350 ticket distributors and at least one distributor in the municipalities where no facilities are available. All possible avenues of solution will therefore be analysed in practical terms in order to provide the most appropriate answers to this problem, which is of particular interest to me and to you, Member.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic608x.u12	Minister, you have answered a lot of things, but you have not answered my question. This one was simple, and I made it clear. Will you prevent the closure of the Belfius agency in Morlanwelz? You're the 100% shareholder of Belfius. You have that power. You're the minister. I'm only a congressman. As a member of the government, you have that power. So my question is simple: are you going to prevent this closure on 15 November? That was a clear question and I expect a clear answer, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic608x.u13	The minister replied.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic608x.u14	Mr President, I think the minister can answer my clear question. Or won't he answer? Minister, are you going to stop this closure? You have the power. You're the shareholder. The CEO is only an employee appointed by the government. You can decide. Will you decide to prevent this closure of the Morlanwelz agency?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic608x.u15	What I want, honourable Member, is to ensure that all banks, and in particular the banks owned by the public authorities, maintain a community service for the entire population, whether in Morlanwelz, Rochefort or Antwerp for example.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic608x.u16	Minister, I quote Morlanwelz, but of course I am targeting all Belfius agencies in the country. But here, there is a concrete case of an agency that has to close and you have the power to prevent this closure. But obviously, you refuse to commit yourself. You make nice statements, but you refuse to commit yourself to the prohibition of this closure. I'm sorry because the beautiful sentences make us a nice leg!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic608x.u17	Minister, the FPS Economy has issued a new European tender for the service concession for the delivery of recognized newspapers and magazines. You know my opinion on this, but that is not the issue today. I'm merely asking you for information. Candidates could register until 1 June 2021. How many candidates have submitted a tender? Who are these candidates? When would the concession be granted? What amounts have you budgeted for the period from 2023 to 2027? Are these figures available at all? What amount is foreseen for the concession for the year 2022? For the newspaper distribution there is a separate round for 7.30 hours. Magazines are distributed through the regular round of the postman during the day. The question arises as to whether we can demand a lower price for this, as there is no need to launch a new round. Has that been taken into account? As far as the number of people is concerned, I have often heard the number of 4,000 full-time equivalents. We have now received different figures through articles, statements and searches at the CRB. Turns out there's a lot less. It's 3,200 rounds, but a round lasts a maximum of 2,5 hours. So if it is said that 4,000 full-time equivalents are working on that, then that is not entirely true. It may be 1,000 to 1,200 people who may be in full-time employment, but they certainly do not provide full-time work to 4,000 people. Is this about deception of bpost? Will you do something about that during the discussions with Bpost about the next concession?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic608x.u18	Mr Freilich, the information on the number of candidates and the names cannot be shared by the contracting authority as long as the procurement procedure for the allocation of the next concessionaire is in place. The disclosure of this information may affect the current procedure. The allocation of the concession should take place in mid 2022. The ceiling shall be entered in the budget. It is therefore the maximum concession fee that can be granted to the concessionaire. For 2023, EUR 162 500 000, EUR 156 200 000 for 2024, EUR 150 000 for 2025, EUR 143 750 000 for 2026 and EUR 137 500 000 for 2027. Since magazines can be distributed according to more flexible issuing conditions, they are included in the concession as a separate parcel, with a view to obtaining the best financial conditions. The removal of the concession, whether or not limited to the magazine plot, would have a major impact on the sector, especially for smaller non-profit organisations and small magazine publishers. They count on the concession as a burden resort to be able to get into the buses at a reasonable price. Each tenderer must submit a tender containing a financial plan which complies with the rules of art and which is sufficiently substantiated. The accuracy of the current concession of bpost is controlled by the FPS Economy, consultants, company auditors, the Court of Auditors and even the European Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic608x.u19	Minister, do you have any information on the number of full-time equivalents and the fact that bpost has given incorrect information? No? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic608x.u20	Mrs Dierick, I asked the National Bank of Belgium to examine the possibility of changing the interbank fee for ATM cash withdrawals. I also asked the National Bank to propose other ways of ensuring a better network of ATMs. The results are expected by the end of October. All possible solutions will be analysed to find the most appropriate response to the problem. On the basis of the results of the study, the banking sector will be consulted, including my colleagues Vincent Van Peteghem and Eva De Bleeker. As I indicated in an earlier answer to a parliamentary question, Bpost's seventh management contract contains a commitment to make at least 350 vending machines available to consumers and at least 1 vending machine in municipalities where no vending machine is available. I share the view that it should be clear to the consumer what costs will be charged. This matter belongs to the domain of the banks whose customers use Batopin's services. Batopin uses the cash logo very prominently and visibly as a unique branding element. The Bancontact logo is used by many banks to indicate the presence of an ATM. As far as universal banking services are concerned, I would remind you that the charter provides for a minimum of 24 cash withdrawals per year from the consumer's bank's ATM. That will also be the case with Batopin ATMs as soon as they are operational.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic608x.u21	It is still awaiting the National Bank's answer to your questions, Minister. Hopefully that will be clear by the end of this month. Banking services must remain affordable and accessible to all. I remain concerned about the consumer for various reasons. Firstly, I fear for accessibility and I believe that using the Bancontact emblem can create confusion. Perhaps the consumer does not know enough that there are costs involved in such a collection. It needs to be communicated transparently. Secondly, you are in favour of increasing interbank rates for banks. There too, I am concerned about the consumer. If the banks themselves will have to pay more, there is a good chance that they will pass on the higher costs to the consumer. This certainly does not help the affordability of banking services. We should definitely keep that in mind. I look forward to the National Bank's analysis. The matter will undoubtedly be put back on the committee's table soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic608x.u22	Mr President, Minister, Marco Van Hees mentioned Belfius earlier. I would like to ask you about the BNP Paribas Fortis bank, which recently offered a new card, the Visa Debit card. This card is a problem for many independents. While it is a debit card, the card is recognised by payment terminals as a credit card. This results in a difference in transaction costs of 1.5 euros instead of 18 cents. These independents were not even warned of the change and their only solution to this problem would be to change the terminal, which would create new additional costs for them, while those they use are in perfect working order Minister, like Marco, I will ask simple questions. Have you been made aware of these problems with the new BNP Paribas map? Have you contacted the Worldline payment and transaction services company to solve this problem? Can you assure the independents that they will not be the ones who will pay the consequences of the changes made by BNP Paribas Bank?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic608x.u23	Mr President, Mr d'Amico, I am indeed aware of the problem and I am the situation very closely. My administration has thus contacted Worldline, which explains that this is a technical problem encountered by a small part of their customers. They ensure that they are aware of the inconvenience to the affected traders and that they do their utmost to resolve the problem as soon as possible. Furthermore, Visa is also aware of the problem and is following up on this issue with the buyers, the banks of the traders, who have not yet made the necessary adjustments or are doing so. The aim is to ensure that debit cards are not billed at the credit card rate. Prior to the start of this project, Visa had informed the purchasers of the arrival of Visa Debit cards on the Belgian market to ensure that the pricing of Visa Debit transactions was similar to that of national Maestro transactions. Worldline also confirms that the Visa Debit card is not intended to be billed as a credit card. Worldline assured my administration that it would contact the traders once the technical problem had been resolved in order to reimburse them for amounts they had unduly paid.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic608x.u24	Minister, thank you for your answer. If I understand correctly, all injured independent clients will be reimbursed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic608x.u25	That is indeed what was transmitted to me as information from Worldline. It is the commitment that has been made.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic608x.u26	Minister, I'll come back to you if I don't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic608x.u27	Mr Minister, first of all, I would like to thank you for your availability for this committee this morning, this afternoon and earlier. Bravo! Recently, we learned from the press that the municipality of Sivry-Rance sold 95% of its wood to China. On Thuin cantonment alone, the sale of wood to China is 4,500 m3. If we count that 500 m3 of wood generates a job in Wallonia, then we lost nine jobs for this single sale of wood. Minister, we all have a desire to have a high employment rate and that is one of this government's objectives. In this context of ever more important purchase of Belgian wood by China, how can our Belgian sawmills still work? In my view, it is essential to consolidate our national wood industry so that our resource does not go to the other end of the world to be transformed and returned in the form of furniture, parquet floors, etc., and then put back on the Belgian market. This is both an ecological and an economic aberration, when we have sawmills in our country that are just asking to work. Minister, are you considering further protecting and supporting our national wood industry? It is a federal jurisdiction that concerns us. How can we prevent wood produced in Belgium from being bought and processed by China?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic608x.u28	My colleague, it is always a pleasure to be here in this committee to answer your questions and questions. I would remind you that the government is at the disposal of Parliament. Our wood industry is indeed facing a sharp increase in purchases of wood, among other things, but not only, by Chinese companies. The main reasons for this are the strong economic recovery and the sharp rise in metal prices leading to increased use of wood in housing construction. So, and even if it may be a temporary phenomenon, this situation just like you worry me. However, this is a situation not only affecting Belgium, but also the wood sector at European level, which shows a sharp increase in EU exports to China. The ideal would therefore be to approach it at European level. In this sense, I will draw the attention of the European Commission, which is responsible for external trade, to this problem. Of course, I am also ready to work with my regional colleagues and the sector to see if further action can or should be taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic608x.u29	Minister, thank you. We are in a market economy. We are not like some colleagues around the table in favour of a planned economy. I do not ask that wood be sold at fixed prices to Belgian sawmills, but one can imagine a system as a right of preemption: at the time of the conclusion of the sale, Belgian sawmills would have the right to align themselves with the price proposed. That exists. For example, when agricultural land is sold to a third party, the farmer who operates the land can buy it at the same price. This is not incompatible with our market economy. I think it's a power that the federal government still has in this country.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic608x.u30	Debates of the European Parliament 55022072C of Melissa Depraetere is postponed. Debates of the European Parliament 55021406C by Kattrin Jadin is also postponed, as is their joint questions. 55021673C and 55021768C.
