ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u2	Mr Vice Prime Minister, bread bags with "black" euro notes, mysterious companies in Montenegro and the exchange of Rolex watches: this week we were told in what we now know as the big Belgian football scandal. Revealing systematic tax evasion and money laundering is a real blow: first and foremost for the football sector itself and for its supporters, but also for anyone who pays fair taxes. In this case, the Special Tax Inspectorate (BBI) and the Justice Department will have to do their job. However, structural action must also be taken. Ladies and gentlemen, we all know that it will not come from the football sector itself, so politicians will have to take the lead, no matter what they have done. This week the committee approved the limitation of exuberant brokers' fees, which also improves transparency. That is an important step. In the summer of 2020, the subjugation of brokers and football clubs to anti-money laundering legislation was approved. In concrete terms, they will have to report all suspicious transactions to the Financial Information Processing Cell (CFI), which will then have to carry out further and thorough investigations. This is an indispensable link in the fight against these abuses. In order for this to work properly, two more things are needed: a KB to point out to the football clubs what they need to check and, as far as brokers are concerned, cooperation agreements with the Länder. Mr. Secretary, what are you waiting for? It's time to get the ball in. Hence my specific question: what progress has been made with the development of the KB for the football clubs and with the partnerships in relation to the brokers?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u3	Madam President, Mr Matheï, I am very concerned about the many scandals in football. It is high time to put things in order. First of all, I would like to remind you that the football sector is covered by special legislation on money laundering. Since 1 July 2021, the Royal Belgian Football Association and professional clubs have been subject to the law on various provisions to prevent money laundering. So football clubs are subject to the full anti-money laundering legislation. The law provides that the definition of a football club is to be made through registration in a royal decree, which is currently in preparation. Thanks to this registration, the FPS Economy and the Financial Information Processing Cell will be able to determine exactly who is subject to the anti-money laundering obligations. This does not alter the fact that anti-money laundering measures are already being taken vis-à-vis professional clubs. Football brokers, on the other hand, will not be covered by the law until a cooperation agreement has been concluded between the federal government and the Regions. The status of broker is a regional competence. That is why I have instructed the Economic Inspectorate to draw up the necessary cooperation agreements. That process is going on. Belgium is the only European country that has already subjected football brokers to anti-money laundering legislation. This complicates our legislative action. Unlike sports clubs, it seems easy for a broker to settle elsewhere in the European Union. Unfortunately, he is able to evade the legal obligations in Belgium. It is therefore essential that European anti-money laundering legislation be applied to the entire professional sport sector in the EU. So the European debates on this matter are very important. The Minister of Finance.............
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u4	Mr Deputy Prime Minister, we do indeed share the concerns you have expressed. These issues have already been addressed in Parliament, including the limitation of brokers' fees and the subjection of clubs and brokers to anti-money laundering legislation. So the ball is rolling and has to keep rolling. The royal decision and the cooperation agreements must be reached quickly. That's what we're counting on you to do. Colleagues, the Red Devils are number one on the FIFA ranking. In this way, they are a sporty example for the whole world and for Europe. We must also take the lead in the fight for clean football. That is why we must continue to argue at European level in favour of subjecting money laundering legislation to brokers and clubs.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u5	Mr. Minister, the development of rail is one of the fundamental levers today, as it addresses both important social issues, environmental issues - and I do not have to say this to you - and mobility issues. On October 21, you said here in plenary session: "I made the accounts of this government. Since the beginning of the legislature, in addition to the ordinary allocation, an additional EUR 1.5 billion has already been injected into the rail sector, on my initiative, by 2024." But on Monday, you said that since the advent of Vivaldi, 1.7 billion euros have been injected into the rail. So, in the budgetary debates in the Committee on Finance, I looked at these figures. I looked for your billion and a half, but I didn't find it! As a result, I asked the Secretary of State for the Budget, Eva De Bleeker, to provide me with a summary of all the movements for the rail, which is a table below. We can see in this picture that there's not a billion and a half more. There's even less! There is even a reduction of 21 million euros in the 2022 budget, and a decrease of 62 million euros in the entire legislature. So here you are talking about a billion and a half more, I see 62 million euros less. How can you confuse a billion and a half more with 62 million euros less? As things stand, do you confirm that the budget for 2024 is 62 million euros lower than that for 2020, as indicated in the Secretary of State's table?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u6	Definitely, Mr Van Hees, you have a very special relationship with truth and numbers and have a real ability to rewrite history. I thank you for allowing me to reaffirm the government's ambition for rail, the backbone of tomorrow's mobility, and to detail the budgetary decisions that have been taken for this purpose for the past year. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, the truth has its rights, and here it is. In one year, the government has injected more than 1.7 billion euros into rail, in addition to the 3 billion annual allocation of Infrabel and SNCB. This is first of all the Boost Plan, which totals 615 million additional investments in infrastructure, network and accessibility. Within the framework of the 2022 budget, new means will be granted to SNCB to implement its transport plan. This is how more trains have been running since Monday. Similarly, the aim is to enable Infrabel to fulfil its public service tasks and to develop the international train. In addition, 900 million covid and flood aid are planned, given the painful circumstances that we are going through. And then, I say again, despite the difficult budgetary context, the resources of SNCB and Infrabel are not diminishing; they are increasing. Mr Van Hees, I have detailed all these figures at the committee meeting on Tuesday, 7 December. Unfortunately, you weren't there. Otherwise, it would have prevented you from making approximate or incomplete comments. So, are these means necessary? They are, of course, after years of starvation and linear budget cuts. Are they sufficient? I have already said this: no, because the needs are enormous. Is it over? No, of course: Budgets 2023 and 2024 will follow Budget 2022. There are multiple possibilities for obtaining rail funding, as it is worth it and essential to our mobility of tomorrow, as well as to our planet.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u7	Minister, it's not right! It's serious! In politics, we cannot invent figures. I'll give you the figure from the Secretary of State for the Budget. I do not share her neoliberal options, but at least she is honest at the budgetary level. It gives us reliable figures. You, you come with a smoke screen. You come first with 900 million euros which are aid for rail, covid and floods. I don't see how this will develop the rail at all. But, above all, you come with the positive amounts but not with the negative amounts. However, if we look at all the figures, not just those that fix you but all the figures, we see that there is not an increase of 1.5 or 1.7 billion euros but a decrease of 62 million euros in the legislature. It's the painting De Bleeker! So you can question the figures of the Secretary of State for the Budget, but I am more likely to believe her than you are in this case, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u8	Minister, for football lovers, Veljkovic's testimony about what really happens around the football fields in our country must have been a nightmare. Apparently, there is a deeply rooted culture of total blurring in Belgian professional football, in which it is no longer about sport, but about making money quickly. I hope that everyone agrees with me that it would be totally irresponsible to continue pumping tax money into that system. Minister, over the last few weeks, we have been given a lobby cartel, a cartel of top clubs, of Pro League, of sports journalists and academics, all of whom came in choir saying that we should stay away from the tax privileges of football, otherwise we would destroy football. Ladies and gentlemen, football is already broken and we now know why, because people prefer to throw money and Rolexes to buy foreign players rather than invest in talent from their own young people. That must stop, Minister. I see two options for this. Either we turn the crane completely. We're done with the tax benefits. Either we oblige the sector to put its house in order. I propose that any football club that finds itself still entitled to tax money in the future should be fully vetted in such a way that we are sure that it is purely on its feet. My question to you, Minister, is what you think of that thought trail and what your plans are to put things in order in Belgian football.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u9	Mr Vandenbroucke, in recent days we have been able to follow with great surprise the testimonies of a football broker on television and in the newspapers. We cannot say that we are surprised, because we knew since 3 years ago, of course, after the break-up of Operation Zero, that things were happening that could not be tolerated. Without wishing to comment on the ongoing judicial investigations that are under way, I have to agree, as you rightly said, that we are all a little uncomfortable because of the size of that black money circuit. The amounts mentioned are really vengeful. I think it is important to stress three facts. Firstly, Operation Zero is painfully exposing the uncontrolled power of football brokers in football. I believe that we have taken a first step by introducing a ceiling on the tax deductibility of the broker's fee. Secondly, the fight against black money has been a spearhead of the Special Tax Inspectorate for years. She is therefore an important partner of our court in that fight and in the Operation Clean Hands against various football clubs. A tax investigation is currently under way in various departments of our Belgian football and I am convinced that cooperation between the parish and the BBI will produce results in this respect. Thirdly, we cannot, in fact, allow black money circuits to be set up on the one hand and, on the other hand, allow clubs to decide for themselves how to use taxpayers' money, for example, to pay the high player's wages. The aim must be to use the resources available to the public authorities for what is important, namely infrastructure and youth training. That seems fair to me. That makes sense to me. And so yes, Mr Vandenbroucke, I believe that the government has already taken steps to get the excesses out. At the same time, I am convinced that we need to pay attention in the coming months to keep the approach to these excesses high on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u10	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am also very much looking forward to the outcome of the judicial investigation and investigation of the Special Tax Inspectorate. You have explained once again that you are making plans to reform the tax benefits. You have the full support of Vooruit. I hope that when they come on the government's agenda, no one will feel called upon to be the mouthpiece of the football lobby. This does not please the football lovers in our country, because it is the lobby that destroyed football. The support has never been so great to continue with the coarse brush, to clean up and ensure that every cent of taxpayers' money that goes to professional football is well spent.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u11	Madam President, Minister, I think many of us have strangled ourselves by drinking our coffee, by reading the article in De Tijd that the fight against tax fraud is no longer a priority in the national security plan. It is not you, Minister, who are at the initiative of the National Security Plan, the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Justice. How can one imagine for a single moment the acceptance of the population to whom it is asked to pay its contributions by means of the professional discount retained monthly on the wages of the employees or by means of advance payments for the self-employed and the liberal professions, if it is not made clear to him that we are going to fight against tax evasion? We reach a breaking point, if it is this message that is delivered to him. That is why I have only one hypothesis, that of a lack of discernment, a lack of attention. It cannot be otherwise! Ministers, it is essential to review the copy, which is still to be presented to the government, before being discussed with other levels of authority. Indeed, the fight against tax fraud is not only a matter of basic justice and the equality of Belgians in tax matters, but also a necessity, given the difficult budgetary context that we are experiencing at present.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u12	Madam Secretary, you did not mention the fight against tax fraud this week. Let me refresh your memory: LuxLeaks, Panama Papers and Paradise Papers, scandal after scandal has passed here. That is why we have agreed that we will get EUR 1 billion out of the pockets of cheaters who benefit from the hood of all citizens and businesses who pay their taxes properly. That is totally unacceptable. Come on, everybody's gonna do their part. Those who don't do their part will make others pay too much taxes. Minister Van Peteghem has always confirmed that ambition. Madam Minister, I am sorry but at the beginning of this week I asked myself what those words are worth. After all, you came up with a National Security Plan to set the top priorities for the police. It removed the fight against tax fraud as a top priority. You put the ambition of your colleague Van Peteghem beside you, you just forgot about them behind his back. Ladies and gentlemen, I wonder what we are doing here. After all, we need the police to fight against tax fraud. This fight must be fought on all fronts, both by the tax authorities and by the judiciary and the police. Madam Minister, that ambition seems to disappear if Vooruit does not appeal to you. That's why I'm here to address you. What do you intend to do with the promise we have made to citizens and businesses in this country? Will you also step up the fight against tax fraud? Will this fight be a top priority for the police? Will that also be reflected in the National Security Plan on which you are working?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u13	Minister, Minister, every year our country loses EUR 30 billion because of tax evasion. That amount disappears from the treasury every year because of tax fraud, but we read in the newspaper this week that tackling tax fraud would seem to be no longer a priority for the police. Just when our public finances are moaning under the corona crisis, we take tax fraud from the top priority list of the National Security Plan. Madam Minister, that is incomprehensible and unacceptable to my group. People and companies who pay their taxes correctly must know that fraudsters cannot just get away. The government agreement is very clear on this, and the fight against tax fraud will continue unabated. That is precisely why we need a continued effort by the police. The police need more specialist investigators who can conduct financial investigations. The public prosecutors are asking that and your party colleague, the Minister of Finance, is asking that too. Madam Secretary, tax fraud is a serious crime. Since when were you aware of the new priorities of the police? Why didn't you have an alarm call because tax fraud wasn't in the middle of it anymore? Are you going to sit down again with the police at the table to tell them what the priorities of this government are? In what way are you going to strengthen the police to fight against tax fraud?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u14	Madam Minister, Minister, it's always the same song at Vivaldi, the little man we make pay, the little man has to work longer and so on. The shame is then always that we are going to tackle the tax fraud. For a year there has been a return of EUR 1 billion. A table is then drawn up and it could as well have been EUR 2 billion, so full time. But where are the actions? The first opportunity to continue in the fight against tax fraud was the National Security Plan. However, what does it turn out to be? Last year, there was a large-scale tax fraud in it. Now, however, the Vivaldi government decides that this tax fraud goes into the garbage can, which is no longer a priority. How is it possible that there is such a big difference between the words and the actions of a government? There are 260 billion euros going from Belgian companies to tax havens. Minister, how many people are working on that in your services? There's four men in that cell. There's four men in that cell. Then what are we doing? There are 60 officials disappearing at the FPS Treasury, but to bully sick people, there are up to 60 more. It's always the same with Vivaldi, for the small shrimp it's fries and above it's blah. Madam Secretary, my question is quite clear. How could you make such a decision? I don't understand. Secondly, there is an interministerial committee against fraud, in which you are both in, like Mr Van Quickenborne and Mr Dermagne. Has there been any consultation on the National Security Plan on that committee?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u15	Madam President, Minister, Minister, as we speak, Parliament does not have the honour of knowing this draft national security plan 2022-2025. But what is clear is that the fight against tax fraud is no longer a top priority for the police. Or, more precisely, it is included under the heading "special attention to phenomena". As if the goal was simply to settle for the existing means, without having to incorporate new tools. The question is simple: who is being mocked? Do we have to remember that this Parliament is still waiting for a comprehensive plan to combat tax evasion promised by this government? Do we have to remember that Vivaldi intends to recover a billion euros by 2024? We still don't have the resources for the year 2021. Do we have to remember that every year there is a new financial scandal, the latest of which is that of the Pandora Papers? Minister, Minister, my questions are dramatically simple. Is it true that the fight against tax fraud would no longer be a top priority for the police under this draft national security plan? If so, how is this possible? How do you justify it? Does this not call into question the vast plan to combat tax fraud that we are still waiting for? Will the budgetary revenues you promise us be affected? Finally, if this is not too much to ask, could this Parliament have access to the draft national security plan in order to be able to debate it democratically?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u16	Madam President, Minister, Minister, the National Security Plan was discussed at the Inter-Ministerial Conference and soon there was a lot of commotion on social media and in the media. Fiscal fraud will no longer be seen as a priority by the police. That would be punishment anyway. During the discussion of the policy paper, you said that tackling tax fraud is one of the priorities of the federal judicial police (FGP). However, the plan makes a nuance between themes with permanent attention and themes with special attention. Can you shed some light on that for this House? The central task of the police is to ensure the safety of all residents in our country. A lot is coming down on our policemen today, such as cybercrime, maintaining the covid measures, protests that get out of hand, besides their regular work, of course. Today there are 5,200 policemen all over the country too few. The judicial police are also suffering from serious shortages on staff and also on equipment. Many police zones run at 20 per cent. The Open Vld is also in favour of tackling tax fraud and social fraud. That is a very high priority for the Open Vld. That can only happen by making and maintaining a sturdy chain. In that necklace, everyone has their job: the IRS, the police and the parquet. If one of them has a weak moment, the other are ready to help each other. Can you explain the decision to stop cataloguing tax fraud with special attention? What are the steps to strengthen the FGP? In what way will you guarantee that our police services will make their contribution (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u17	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, last Monday we were all able to read the Latest News research with an unfair story that should come up against all of us. A taxpayer, a certain Hans, lost his job during the corona crisis and got thousands of euros overcharged by the tax authorities due to a miscalculation. The man eventually had to go to court to make his point. So, in the country with almost the highest taxes in the world, ordinary citizens do not get a proper tax bill and have to go to court to get them right. On the other hand, citizens are now told that justice and police no longer make tax fraud a priority. At the opening of the judicial year, the Attorney General of Brussels warned that tax offences would no longer be investigated. Mr Minister, last Tuesday we were able to read in the newspaper that ministers Verliden, including your party mate, and Van Quickenborne no longer regard tax fraud as a top priority of the police. Tax fraud is thus given in the facts a safe passage from the courts and the police. Mr. Secretary, where were you when those top priorities were set? I quote the coalition agreement: 'The capacity of the Justice and Police are being strengthened to deal with major fraud cases'. Can we now delete that sentence from the coalition agreement? Are the many billions of dollars in the fight against fraud, promised for the budget, really nothing more than hot air? What will you do to ensure the quality of the services provided by the tax authorities and to remove errors from the system, as mentioned by the Hans?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u18	Madam President, Minister, Minister, the government agreement provides for the fight against tax and social fraud to continue. Colleagues, the Minister for Finance is doing even more. Its adopted anti-fraud action plan provides for 16 projects that will increase revenue. The Minister of the Interior said in her policy paper that she would fight organised crime. She listed and started that list with the fight against financial crime, including tax and social fraud. Colleagues, a national security plan did not fall out of the sky. Preparatory meetings will take place there. Not only Justice, not only police, not only Home Affairs, but also other departments and other Cabinets, that of the Prime Minister, that of Defence, that of Civil Service, that of Computer Science, and other governments. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a collective effort and it is my absolute conviction that this government and all the departments involved make the fight against tax fraud a priority. Where does the plan say that the fight against tax fraud would not be a priority? Colleagues, whether it is a top priority or a priority with permanent attention or a priority with special attention, it may be a top priority for our group with permanent and special attention. However, I am particularly interested in the results, the figures and the returns. Madam Minister, Minister, how do we guarantee that the figures agreed in the government agreement and in the budget can be realised?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u19	Madam President, Minister, let me refresh your memory. Lux Leaks, Bahamas Leaks, Offshore Leaks, Swiss Leaks, Panama Papers, Paradise Papers, Pandora Papers, Football Leaks, our own football mafia and I'm not talking about Dexia or Arco yet. There are also the FinCEN Files, in which the amount of 2,000 billion dollars, 365 times the name of Belgium and the four banks are mentioned. You are responsible for coordinating the fight against fraud. You are responsible for the lukewarm cooperation between the tax authorities, the public prosecutor and the police. That's what you're saying. On June 10th, you promised reinforcements for the downgraded detective capacity. I hope you will read your own website: "We must not wait to tackle fraud vigorously. Combating fraud is an absolute priority for this government. There is no way that people who contribute fairly and in time will have to pay more taxes because some consciously choose to cheat. Today, a broad-based plan is on the table, and that is particularly important. Fraudsters still benefit too much from the division in the fight against fraud." The division in the fight against fraud! Are you two still talking? Are you still in the same church? Did you guys agree to that action plan? Or is one in the confessional and the other in the sacristy? Is it on the one hand or is it on the other? We are only discussing the fight against fraud in the budget. Everything for which we lack money and have no solution is called for the fight against fraud. EUR 200 million in 2021, EUR 400 million in 2022, EUR 700 million in 2023 and EUR 1 billion in 2024! Bingo! I just have one question. How are you gonna do that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u20	Madam President, Minister, I will not recall the figures: 30 billion each year. Scandals follow each other. In one year in Parliament, we saw the FinCEN Files, the OpenLux, the Pandora Papers. The names differ but each time, the findings come back. First, many taxpayers contribute very loyally to the financing of collective functions, such as schools, roads, trains, and reimbursements of our health care, our daily lives. Secondly, some do not play the game and do not contribute, or do not match their abilities. Thirdly, the State needs means to enforce the rule. And you have made a very strong commitment, Minister, against fraud. Investing in the fight against fraud is very cost-effective. It would be totally incomprehensible not to do so in the context of the crisis we are experiencing today. The perpetrators of fraud must therefore be prosecuted better. Of course, the police play an essential role. In fact, in your anti-fraud plan, collaboration between the various actors, including the police, is an essential and major point – and that is very good. But with what police, minister? Who in the police will you find, to work on these files, if not a priority? Already today, we have heard, in hearings, that the police are taken over by other subjects. This has an impact on the quality and quantity of the files they are able to process. And today, this plan relegates the fight against fraud to the background. But it's unrealistic! We're depriving ourselves of justice and means. For environmentalists, this is not right! As the minister responsible for the coordination of the fight against fraud, where are your priorities? Tell us that with your colleagues, you will change this plan and that tax justice is always a priority!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u21	Minister, you have the floor for your answer for five minutes; Mrs Verlinden will also have five minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u22	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, let me be clear: the fight against tax fraud was, and remains, a top priority of this government. Everyone who is involved in the fight against tax fraud from afar or close by realizes that every link in its approach is important: the tax authorities, the police, the courts and the courts. It is on this chain approach of various links that the policy of combating fraud is based. We have put that into practice in our first plan against fraud, which is currently being rolled out. There is a great deal of focus on coordination and cooperation between these different links in the fight against fraud. Our second action plan is currently being worked out and finalised. The second action plan focuses on international fraud and complex fraud structures. It is clear that no link, not even the police, can and will invest less time or money in the fight against fraud. Even more, there will need to be more investment than is the case today. That is my conviction and it is also in writing in our coalition agreement. The government agreement states that one member of the government will be responsible for coordinating the fight against fraud. That's what happened. The government agreement states that the Anti-Fraud College will reconvene and draw up coordinated action plans. That's what happened. The coalition agreement talks about enhanced cooperation between the parish and the tax authorities, through multidisciplinary research teams. That is what happened: we set it up and our expertise is shared there. Within the tax administration we have also brought together the expertise on complex, international, tax, private constructions. We did, that's what happened. We've reinforced our tax administration with 40 additional inspectors at the BBI. That's what happened. We have indeed included in our coalition agreement the strengthening of the capacity of the judiciary and the police to deal with the major fraud cases. We will not admit a millimeter at that point. The fight against fraud is a fight of all of us, is the fight of society against the fraudsters. Cooperation remains an important starting point. Cooperation is the top priority and will also ensure that it is a success. I keep working on that with the whole government day after day.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u23	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen in the hemisphere and anyone listening in, I can repeat the first sentence and all the following from Mr Van Peteghem in his reply. It's a top priority, it was one and it's still one. Let me be clear: also for the police. Very clearly, I can confirm that the fight against tax evasion remains a priority! It has been since day one of this government. That was in my policy statement last year from day one, and also in the two policy papers that I prepared and presented to Parliament last year. So no, Mr Vandenbroucke, I don't need a commotion, I don't need a theatre. I do not need bingo, Mr Dedecker, to be convinced of that and to do everything in my power to make the fight against fraud a priority for the police too. Those who will read the National Security Plan will not be able to decide otherwise, and come to the same conclusion. It is therefore a good thing that we can discuss in this House on the basis of policy documents, not on the basis of newspaper titles and on the basis of tweets. Let me be very clear: tax fraud is a major challenge for this country. It is important that we continue the fight against fraudsters together. Thanks to the police, together with other inspection services such as the tax inspection and the police, significant progress has been made in recent years on tax, social and economic fraud files. I'd like to give you some figures. In 2020 319 files were followed up and 152 new files were launched, leading to 18 arrests. This year, a corona year, the police followed 328 large files and added 148 new ones, leading to 37 arrests. We are continuing on this upward path, leave no doubt about it. We can never do enough for this. So yes, if the tax inspection through the parquet will deliver the Pandora Papers, or other documents, to the police, it is obvious that the police will do whatever is necessary to deal with the fraudsters. And so, Mr. Laaouej, I too suffocated with my coffee on Monday or Tuesday morning. I also choked in my coffee, when I was put in my mouth the opposite, not least because the police's commitment to the theme has increased considerably over the past few years. We will not be disturbed by what newspaper titles and social media make of it. It is clear that the fight against tax fraud remains a priority. We had a draft national security plan. It is a phenomenon that has been named in this plan and to which the integrated police will continue to address it on a permanent and qualitative basis. We will even strengthen the initiatives that have been taken in recent years. Police anchor their approach in collaboration with the chain's various investigative and prosecution partners such as Justice and FPS Finance. It remains an indispensable partner in the implementation of an action plan for the implementation of a coordinated anti-fraud policy. What's it about, anyway? The National Security Plan, as it is called, contains the contributions of the integrated police to the country's security strategy. The National Security Plan translates the actions into concrete actions for the police. In fact, we could also call the National Security Plan the National Police Security Plan. Let me be clear. Each of the phenomena mentioned in the NVP and in the texts before us today is a priority, including social and tax fraud, and receives a tailor-made approach. To this end, we give the police all the necessary people and resources and invest in new technologies as well as in the recruitment of specialised profiles. I therefore assume that everyone, including here in Parliament, will support the police 100% in a vigorous action and in all the challenges that await it over the coming months and years. After all, the police have expressed the ambition in the National Security Plan to do even better. A lot of involved services and experts have been involved. The services, the federal police and the local police have given advice. There were more than ten meetings of the Steering Committee, in which members of the Prime Minister's Cabinets, Justice, Defence, Civil Service and Mobility were represented, as were the governments of the Länder. So all I can do is confirm the persuasive efforts of the police. The texts that we are now finalizing will show that all these phenomena, including tax and social fraud, remain a priority. So let's keep our heads down now. Overhasty decision based on headlines is....
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u24	Minister, allow me to address the Minister of the Interior more specifically. Madam Minister of the Interior, you are the boss of the police. The police can come with proposals and, with all due respect, of course, to the senior police officer, it is you who set the priorities. These priorities, you will find them in the government agreement, nowhere else. And we expect you to see the government agreement reflected in the priorities of the national security plan, in particular the fight against tax fraud and, more generally, financial crime. Because the problem is very simple: in our country there are courageous workers who, every day, use their lives to feed their families and pay their taxes, while others plant their money in tax havens because they do not want to contribute to anything! That is the problem, Madam Minister, and that is the message that our people need to hear from you!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u25	Thank you for the answers, Your Excellencies. There have been multiple quotes from the coalition agreement here. The promise to tackle tax fraud hard is not just a piece of paper. That is a promise to the citizens of our country to ensure that everyone does their part. We owe that to the people. That promise requires much more than just fine words in policy papers, she also calls for action. Yes, Madam Minister, Mr Verherstraeten, for Vooruit it certainly does matter where that promise is in the national security plan of the police. It must be clear to us that fraud is a top priority for the police in the coming years. We are therefore very much looking forward to an adaptation of the national security plan which shows that the police, together with the tax authorities and the judiciary, will ensure that fraudsters in our country are dealt with thoroughly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u26	Madam Minister, Minister, investment in our hospitals, in our public transport, in our security apparatus, in renewable energy, it is clear that tax revenues serve the general interest. That is why citizens and businesses in our country must be given the signal that fraudsters do not get away with it. This requires efforts, many efforts by the FPS Finance officials, from the Special Tax Inspectorate and also from the police and the court. Every euro that goes to the fight against tax evasion earns itself back and makes society fairer, and that is the essence, a fair society. I've heard you say it's still a top priority. I am counting on you both, Minister, Madam Minister, to continue the efforts towards fairer taxation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u27	Madam Minister, you are actively deciding to remove from the list of top priorities the approach to tax fraud in the document setting out police priorities. That just happens with the delete key on the computer. What do you reply to Parliament? Fiscal fraud will remain a priority. Here's the problem: blah, blah, blah. That's just what we are from right-wing parties. Right side rides for the rich man. Of course. Vous roulez pour les riches. [[Objections to the banks]] But what about the left-wing parties? I heard what Mr Verherstraeten said here today: everyone was aware. And that is not the case, colleagues on the left! That's not right! In the media it's blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. [[Objection]] Are you saying he's lying? Oh, well, apparently the atmosphere's fine. [[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u28	Minister, thank you for your answers. It is interesting to note that of the ten speakers, six come from the majority. In my opinion, that means everything. I have a little theory about Vivaldi, which I'm going to expose to you, if you don't mind. This coalition seems to me to be built not on projects or on prospects, but on renunciations: for example, the renunciation of nuclear power for the MR and the fate of the undocumented for Ecolo. And I can understand that, on the PS or Vooruit side, we are wondering if there was not in the package the renunciation of the fight against the great tax fraud. Maybe it's a little late to ask the question. I think the figures are going to talk and that we will be very disappointed to see that there will not be a billion euros in 2024 – I am already waiting for 200 million for this year. You're not going to do that if you don't afford it. When one sees so much febrileness, one can wonder where these means are.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u29	For Open Vld, tackling tax and social fraud is a high priority. Ensuring security in our country is the key task for us, the first priority of the police. That's what she's gotta do today with a deficit of 5,200 policemen. That doesn't mean we're gonna turn our tax inspectors into detectives. Madam Secretary, you have confirmed that the police continue to play an important role in tackling tax fraud. I am glad to hear that the coalition agreement is being implemented, Minister. Coordination is there, cooperation between services is improved. This is the only way to increase efficiency and the chances of getting caught. Only by working together will the fight against tax and social fraud be successful and continue to be successful.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u30	With the current fighting coalition, the opposition's work will be very easy. In the newspaper we could read that a certain Hans got a miscalculation of his taxes and had to pay no less than 7,000 euros to the tax authorities. In court, he eventually got right, but it cost him thousands of euros in lawyers' fees. Ordinary citizens have to go to court to get them right, while the socio-economic elite in this country can just whistle outside the court in the event of tax fraud. Usually they get rid of it thanks to a statute of limitations and certainly without a conviction. Class justice is what it's called. The fight against tax fraud is only a priority to ensure that the accounts of the budget are accurate, but not in the facts. Deliver our people in this country with the highest taxes in the world correct tax bills and stop the hardworking Flame. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u31	Madam Minister, Minister, thank you for the answer. The texts were prepared in cooperation with various departments, as should be the case in order to implement an integrated anti-fraud policy. They will be presented to the Inter-Ministerial Conference with the regions, which were already involved. Then comes the final version. Some want to formulate the nature of the priority; nowhere did it say that it is not a priority to modulate the approach to tax fraud. That is good for us, we will support it, but rather than a semantic discussion about words, we will count for our group actions, figures and returns. No man less, no less, no less plan for the fight against tax and social fraud. Those who want to support the government to do more will find an ally in us.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u32	Madam Secretary, it is the journalists' fault. They misread it. There was no particular attention instead of permanent attention or vice versa. I always have a hard time arguing that we policemen are short. We have the largest number of police officers in all of Western Europe, 1 in 220 inhabitants. We have 50,000 with CALog personnel. What's this all about? It's about policies and priorities. I hear talk here about the small taxpayer. If the small taxpayer goes to work with his car and gets a fine, people will be called in immediately. It's not about the big one, with their private plane, it's about the little ones. I heard last week that a new prosecutor was appointed to collect traffic fines. There will also be two substitutes, additional people for the local parquets and 55 employees. Do the same for financial fraud and it is resolved, Minister, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u33	Minister, Minister, thank you for your answers. I hear your usual voluntarism when it comes to combating fraud and your intentions, and I would like to stress them positively. As I have already said, whenever initiatives are taken to combat fraud properly, you will find Ecolo-Groen at your side. However, I wonder because this priority, as you have pointed out, in all the links in the chain, is only found differently in this plan. I ask to see the results. We shall therefore come back to the matter at a later stage. Indeed, fraud costs you, me, all the citizens, all the companies that pay their taxes fairly. I repeat, everyone must contribute to their measure because we have everything to gain with solidarity and tax justice. But this is only possible if the means are deployed to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u34	Minister, in December last year, this Parliament approved my bill that saved the union work, following the destruction of an earlier arrangement by the Constitutional Court. It provided employment and social protection for the union worker, who, in addition to his regular job, can earn up to 6,000 euros a year without too much additional administrative burden and taxes. In the past, these tasks were often carried out in black and reimbursed. The sports and cultural sectors make massive use of this scheme to compensate, for example, trainers, youth coordinators and directors but also stage directors. We agreed at that time that the scheme would apply for one year and that the government would then come up with a definitive solution. The application of Article 17 of the RSZ legislation is under way. My party's position has always been very clear, we want association work to remain a flexible instrument, without unfeasible demands or additional taxes for the associations and the union worker. After all, it's not about a steady job. The regulation must also be timely so that everyone on the ground can prepare themselves. I have a proposal ready to extend my bill if necessary to give the government more time. Minister, this legislation will expire within two weeks. There is still no draft law containing the new regulation. I hear from more and more associations and associations that they are seriously concerned about the future. Will you explain to the sector and to the association workers before 1 January how the association work should be dealt with as from 1 January? Can you confirm that it is for the associations and...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u35	Mrs De Jonge, the government has indeed drawn up a definitive arrangement for association work. There is a complete agreement on this. As you said, this regulation should avoid pushing associations back towards undeclared work. We need to create a flexible and solid framework that will enable a lot of enthusiastic people to engage in the sport and socio-cultural sector, while also earning something extra. That definitive scheme will enter into force on 1 January 2022. The problem is that the Council of State stated in its opinion on the government's draft that we should also request the opinion of the Data Protection Authority. As a matter of urgency, I requested the opinion of the Data Protection Authority last Friday, but we will not receive it in time to have the draft law ready for publication before 1 January 2022. However, this does not affect the entry into force, as it is foreseen retroactively on 1 January 2022. In practical terms, I can say that the RSZ has already started developing an application to indicate the performance and to consult the hours worked. The RSZ also prepares communication, which will be published in the short term on the website www.verenigingswerk.be, and RSZ instructions to employers. The RSZ will also inform the organisations concerned by e-mail. Although the publication will take place a little too late, we are therefore doing everything possible to inform everyone properly, as the law will enter into force on 1 January. Thank you, Mrs De Jonge, for your commitment and your support.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u36	Minister, I am glad that this solution is coming and that, in order to stay with sports terms, you are in the last straight line towards a solution. We must not underestimate this. Thousands of teachers are in post weekly to give millions of children and adults a quality education in the association where they are active. Association workers are really the beating heart of an association, they are taking training courses and making a lot of preparations, everything besides teaching with which they earn an average of 10 euros per hour. The social importance of this scheme is enormous. So this deserved a solution. I hope that, with the solution of retroactivity, we will not abandon those people.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u37	Madam President, Minister, the Omicron variant is gaining ground and galloping at full speed. It is enough to see the situation in a number of other European countries - the United Kingdom, Scotland, Denmark and Sweden. It already threatens us and it could become a majority in late December, early January, so in the next few weeks. We have weapons to defend ourselves and our ability to resist the Omicron variant will depend once again on our effectiveness in deploying these weapons 100 per cent. First of all, vaccination and, in particular, vaccination booster is the first of the major keys. I have been urging you to speed up for several weeks now. The decision was finally taken yesterday to shorten the time to four months between the initial vaccination with messenger RNA vaccines and the booster dose. However, precious weeks have been lost. Beyond this announcement, did you draw up yesterday a precise, major plan to guarantee a concrete acceleration and above all a catch-up, which involves the injection of at least one million doses per week? The second key consists of barrier gestures and ventilation. Of course, you are announcing a Ventilation Bill, but a law has never stopped a virus! When will Belgium actually order massively all the necessary equipment - CO2 sensors, purifiers, other ventilation devices - to equip schools, public transport, all public places? The third key is to restore the testing and tracing capabilities that have been exceeded by the events. Is that so? The fourth key is support for our caregivers. It is true that I have been grappling with the same thing for months, Mr.Minister, but decisions are slow and when decisions are taken, the process is still delayed. We're gonna have to go faster, much faster to fight the virus.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u38	Dear Mrs. Fonck, it is absolutely correct that we must now rely on all the lines of defence available against this Omicron variant, and first on vaccination. By the end of December, 4 million fully immunized citizens will have received a booster dose. It's very important! Among adults, 4.25 million still have to receive their booster dose, one million of which are already planned. Yesterday's decision to reduce the interval has already added 1.8 million people to the list. I believe that vaccination centres are fully mobilized. That is one of the reasons why I urged my colleagues, the Ministers of Health in the Regions, to decide yesterday. I had signals, in particular from the Flemish side, that this decision should be taken. So I really asked my colleagues to do it yesterday, which makes it possible to start the machine. Of course, there is a need to re-mobilize immunization centres. Volunteers and professionals are quite exhausted, so we must try to help them by mobilising other categories of health care workers, which is possible thanks to the law passed in the Health Committee. As far as ventilation is concerned, I fully agree with you. I am preparing a bill that I am still discussing within the federal government to frame a medium- and long-term policy. In the meantime, for example in education, it is absolutely and as promised to accelerate this investment. I'm going to have to keep my mouth shut here, but we'll have the inquiry to discuss the other elements that you've put forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u39	Minister, thank you for respecting the timing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u40	Minister, thank you for your answer. I have the impression that we do not measure the urgency of massively strengthening our defences against the Omicron variant. It is contagious as none of the variants has been so far. If we do not deploy, concretely on the ground and not in the texts, our weapons to be, in the coming weeks, 100 per cent of our resilience, we will have to deal with an extremely rapid and contagious virus. You talked about mobilizing volunteers, etc. If the need arises, I think we need to mobilize the army. I fear that 4 million doses, in the current situation, will not be enough by the end of December to arm themselves even more. As far as ventilation is concerned, what you are saying is not what is on the ground. There's an emergency, Minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u41	Madam President, Minister, the Muslim executive is the representative body of the Muslim community in Belgium. At least that's what it says on his website. You and I know this is not the case. I have been warning you for over a year that the operation of the Executive is completely flawed. A chairman linked to extremism, a former Vice-President who turns out to be a Moroccan spy. The Executive insists on our school books of a reprehensible nature, with a scalable content. The imam program is completely failing. Fortunately, you will not pay the subsidies for it. In addition, there are other small lies, such as not buying an expensive Mercedes, of which I have the invoice here. That's what happens with taxpayers' money. In 2020, the Executive received a grant of €647,000 from you. Of that one can buy a Mercedes. On 6 October, you are literally telling me that my proposal for financial and operational audit is not bad, because, on the substance, you agree with me that the Executive does not show the necessary professionalism and transparency. A few defaults later there is a renewal committee. Twice guess who runs the renewal committee? The President of the Executive. It is the CIB, which also has the former Chairman of the Executive, who had to quit. It's all getting a little crazy for words. I'm very curious about your vision of the future of this Executive.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u42	Minister, I have already been able to ask you several times about the rotting situation and the shortcomings found in the Belgian Muslim Executive. Consider this: non-renewal of bodies for almost two years, lack of formation of imams by AFOR (Academie de formation et de recherche en études Islamiques), foreign interference in the management of the Great Mosque, spread of religious extremism, investigation of the State Security to the disturbing conclusions and, finally, public contempt of the authorities since the words of our Prime Minister have been treated as "political interference". I know you're acting in practice. You have again recently asked our intelligence services to investigate the Executive as well as "its associated structures, which are often dubious, in order to detect threats of extremism, espionage and interference". This situation, you will agree, does not augur well for a peaceful, democratic and effective renewal procedure. In any case, it requires genuine political vigilance and clear initiatives at all institutional levels. To this end, an interministerial conference has been held, which has just been organized with the governments of the federated entities. However, some echoes indicate that no decision would have been taken. Therefore, Minister, my questions are quite simple. What initiatives has the Interdepartmental Conference taken? What are the guarantees regarding the absence of foreign interference in the renewal procedure? What are the conclusions of the report you commissioned on the theological formation of imams? Finally, what about the executive's public subsidies for 2022?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u43	Thank you, Mr. Pivin. Minister, you have four minutes for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u44	Since I took office, I made it clear that there are serious problems with the operation of the Executive and I have not stuck to my feet. Last year, we received an alarming report from the intelligence services on foreign interference. The person who was unmasked as a spy was fired. The procedure for the recognition of the Great Mosque in Brussels was interrupted. Secondly, the imam training is not a success. Those are not my words, but those of the principal of the KUL. That is why I decided not to pay the EUR 250 000 provided by the previous government for this training this year. The Executive is not managed professionally. There are many gaps. The Executive is an assembly of 17 members but, de facto, it is five members who make the rain and the good weather. This gave rise to two formal petitions on my part in July and October. Fourthly, there are still indications of foreign interference through shady vehicles around the Executive, which means that certain countries are trying to keep their grip on the body, but also on the Muslim community in our country. That's why I've asked for a new screening of state security. I expect that report by the end of the year. Finally, Mr. Pivin, we took another step forward. This week we met with the regional ministers responsible for cults for the first time. This has never been done in this country. This meeting proved very useful and was conducted in a spirit of openness. We found that our experiences, and in particular our ideas on executive and training, were in fact similar, and we were very clear in the press release that was subsequently released. We have said that the various governments of our country will strengthen their cooperation and that they all want to send a clear signal about the renewal of the Executive, so that the Muslim community in our country can be represented in a transparent and professional manner, respecting our fundamental values. Finally, financial control of the expenditure of the Executive is carried out through the annual accounts presented with a report from the company auditor. That is controlled by the FPS Justice and subsequently transferred to the Treasury and the Court of Auditors. With regard to the car, Mr Metsu, I will give you the facts. There was a tender in 2016, the car was purchased in 2017 and taken back by the seller in 2018. All these facts date back to the previous government, Mr Metsu. You know, moreover, that there is a case before the Brussels Business Court in which certain members of the EMB are suing the opaque effect. As you can see, ladies and gentlemen, our government is not left with its arms crossed. But there's a big BUT! We live, Mr. Pivin, in a rule of law. There is freedom of religion. There is the right of defence and the right to be heard. I will not deviate from these principles. Otherwise, we would move forward on a particularly slippery legal ground. That does not alter the fact that we are doing what we are doing with conviction and perseverance. We're all tired of the executioner's messing and messing around. Only recently we received a grant application from the Executive for 2022, and this is regrettably the statement by the President in the press, a few weeks ago, that he would make it without a subsidy. Well, I can tell you that in the present circumstances I will not release the planned subsidy. The Muslim community in our country deserves better, much better. It is very much abandoned by the body which is supposed to represent it. For us, the commitment remains a transparent, representative and professional body.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u45	Thank you, Minister, for your strong answer. Congratulations too that you will not pay 250,000 euros for an education without students. When I say that that car was purchased, the chairman of the Executive of the Muslims of Belgium denies it. That's the lie, of course. I blame you for not checking that out. Sometimes we have to admit that something is limp, that something is not working. Then, of course, pulling the plug is also an option. I hear very critical questions from Mr Pivin of the MR. I have an answer here from someone from Green, a respected Flemish MEP from Green, Imade Annouri, who says: Cancel that Executive, it represents nothing or nobody, and is of a questionable level. Perhaps we should all dare to do so, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u46	Minister, thank you for the clarification you have given us. I have no doubt that you are acting in this matter with method and determination. We are not the only country to be confronted with problems with Muslim worship since in France, just a few days ago, the Minister of the Interior declared that the French Council of Muslim Worship had died. This situation in Belgium must be resolved and the same findings must be stopped from being made year by year. I therefore sincerely hope that every effort will be made, including within the federated entities, to finally see the emergence of a democratic Executive, subject to our laws and values, and which promotes the Islam of Belgium. Minister, this must be included in your good resolutions for the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u47	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the real estate market has been booming for a year now. With the covid crisis, we had a frenzy of purchases. People who are already owners have wanted another much more adapted to the containment and measures of telework, with the result an increase in demand, an increase in prices and probably an increase in inequalities in access to property. In one year, the average cost of an apartment increased by 4.9% and that of a house by 6.6%. It's huge! For many citizens, access to property is therefore becoming very difficult. This applies in particular to young people who do not have the chance to rely on savings or the help of their families. We need measures to facilitate access to property, especially for first-time buyers, but also for single-parent families and older people. Last March, a study by the Price Observatory showed that notary fees in Belgium are too high compared to our neighbours and that notary fees have increased considerably. As a result, you announced, Minister, that you would want to revise the regulated rates of notaries. My questions are simple. What is the status of this reform? Does this reform contain measures for households with low or medium wealth? Does it contain measures for first-time buyers?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u48	Madam President, Mrs Leoni, 41, this is the time that has elapsed since the last change in notarial tariffs. There's the government agreement. There are different bills, like your party's. There is the study of the Price Observatory. With all this information, we have started negotiations with the sector and are in the process of finalising the details of a major reform. I will submit a concrete proposal to the government early next year. What are the lines of strength? First of all, we want a review of the fees and administrative costs. The aim must be to make the purchase of family housing cheaper at an average price. The vast majority of purchases will become cheaper and those with modest incomes and the middle class will pay less. That's our promise! Secondly, we want more transparency. Citizens must be able to know precisely what the bill consists of at the notary's, how much the notary's fees are, what is the amount of taxes, taxes, fees and administrative costs? Finally, we want to modernize the profession. For example, there is a need for a new status that would take more account of work-life balance. But, ladies and gentlemen, the State itself also has a responsibility. Registration fees continue to account for most of the costs. That is why I welcome the action taken by the Flemish Government, which is halving them. All of this for one purpose: as you say, it is necessary to make the purchase of family housing cheaper.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u49	Minister, thank you for your answers. I hear that you are in consultation with the notaries and that the reform is moving forward. We can rejoice, because yes, we must take measures to help Belgians access the property of their home or their apartment and, in particular, the young first-time buyers. For us socialists, notary fees are far too high. Added to the overheating of real estate, they make it impossible for many Belgians to access the property. The Centre's study has shown, with supporting figures, the need to readjustment the fees of notaries so that they remain proportionate. We are therefore pleased to hear that you are working on this issue. We hope to see an initiative on this matter on Parliament's table in 2022.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u50	Madam Minister, you are undoubtedly aware that our neighbours in the north are opting for nuclear energy in their new government agreement. That makes sense, because that is the technology with the lowest CO2 emissions and the smallest environmental impact. In this way, they protect their citizens from the most extreme energy bill. While the Netherlands takes the first steps in the nuclear renaissance, poor Belgium clings to old forms and thoughts. In poor Belgium, the federal government does not know what it will do. She does call for expensive, polluting gas plants, but she doesn't know if it will keep her light. In poor Belgium you try to keep your coalition partners on board with the promise of small nuclear reactors in the distant future, as a kind of emergency exit from the purple-green tragedy. This morning, Minister De Sutter slammed that door hard-handedly. Madam Secretary, I myself, your coalition partners, politics, businesses, citizens are waiting to see what the verdict is. What will you do? When will the government make a decision? Do you keep the slopes of the small nuclear reactors open and will you therefore amend the law? I have a proposal for that. Or was it really all just a bluff poker? Finally, who are you doing it for anyway? The core exit has no support. Moreover, we have learned from recent reports that the closure will have a major impact on our health; on the climate, on the environment and not least on our wallet. The big question is whether you will then come to the neighbouring countries and hopefully buy electricity at a price. Or do you have another plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u51	Madam Minister, when I read the passage on security of supply in the coalition agreement of the new Dutch Rutte IV cabinet, it seemed as if it was one of my earlier speeches here in Parliament. I quote: "Current energy can complement sun, wind and geothermal energy in the energy mix and can be used for the production of hydrogen. It makes us less dependent on the import of gas. That is why the present nuclear power plant remains open for longer. In addition, this cabinet is taking the necessary steps for the construction of two new nuclear power plants." I couldn't put it any better. The Dutch seem to be able to look with an open mind at the security of supply and affordability of energy. In other words, the Netherlands joins the many countries that want to use nuclear energy to increase reliability, guarantee affordability, avoid imports and fight against CO2 emissions. That is the opposite of what is happening here in Belgium. Earlier this week Prime Minister De Croo warned Russia about massive consequences if the country invaded Ukraine. It is the same Russia, on which you want to be dependent for gas in the future, to guarantee your energy supply. The current government will not be able to point the finger at the corrupt Russia, but it will have to spawn to ensure that the gas plants continue to operate. Madam Secretary, how do you view developments in the Netherlands and France in the field of nuclear energy? Are you concerned about the developments in Russia, which will hypothesize our gas supply in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u52	Madam Minister, on 10 November last I asked you about your plan B following the decision of the Flemish Region not to grant a building permit. You didn't answer me back then. Today, clouds are accumulating as it appears that an appeal will be brought to the Council of State concerning the Awirs power station. We hear Engie saying that it is absolutely no longer possible to restart nuclear power plants and we learn that your government started a legal request the day before yesterday to know what your energy strategy would be. The Flemish Minister's decision is five weeks old and you asked for legal advice the day before yesterday. As the clouds accumulate in our country, all around our country, the energy strategy is being strengthened and we have, in the countries, France and Great Britain, a whole series of decisions that fall, in particular on new nuclear technologies, which we do not do here in Belgium. In Belgium, we are still in full fog and we have the impression that the real energy minister is the boss of Engie. He's in a conflict of interest. It is he who decides that we no longer have time for nuclear power plants and that it is absolutely necessary to make his power plant gas and so much worse for the climate. I hear Minister Nollet telling us that it is no big deal for Belgium, that thanks to the ETS system, the production of CO2 in Belgium will be compensated elsewhere. We know that today it is a false idea and this production of CO2 will be on a net balance sheet at European level. What I'm asking you, ma'am, is to tell us where you are in this strategy. Are we going to get out of this fog? When will we have clear decisions to save our security of supply while maintaining the climate?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u53	Minister, our neighbours are relying on nuclear energy to ensure their security of supply and to achieve their climate goals. We have learned that the new Dutch government, in its coalition agreement, plans to build two new nuclear power plants, while the activity of the Borsele nuclear power plant, located about 15 kilometres from the Belgian border, will be extended. France is also focusing on nuclear energy. Indeed, last November, President Macron announced the construction of new reactors in parallel with the development of renewable energies. In Belgium, the government must decide whether or not to extend two nuclear reactors in the next few days. Indeed, the government agreement is very clear. If the monitoring shows an unexpected security of supply problem, two reactors can be extended. CRM must replace nuclear capability. The first auctions under this mechanism have already taken place. They selected two new gas-fired power plants, Vilvorde and the Awirs. The second auction will take place in 2024, a few months before the planned end of the nuclear power plant. However, there is no certainty that these plants are being set up, given Flanders' refusal to grant a permit for the Vilvorde gas plant, while recourse to the Council of State is announced for the Awirs gas plant. As a result, no power plants selected by the auction are guaranteed. Minister, what are the legal guarantees that these plants will be built? Given these unexpected problems, do you guarantee security of supply?Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u54	Thank you for your questions about the coalition agreement in the Netherlands, ladies and gentlemen. The Netherlands has also decided on a number of energy issues in current cases. That was not just about nuclear energy, it also announced decisions on hydrogen and wind at sea. Ladies and gentlemen, I noticed that you all referred to all kinds of energy generation, but that windmills at sea and hydrogen, two issues on which the government has also taken decisions on our energy transition that is stated in the coalition agreement, Mr Van Lommel, were not mentioned. You have asked me how I see the agreement of the Netherlands. I can sum it up simply: thinking in the long term and acting in the short term. What's in the coalition agreement? That the Netherlands wants to keep the only nuclear power plant open longer. The closure is scheduled for 2033. So the Dutch Government says 12 years before that date that it will investigate it. The same applies to the construction of new nuclear power stations. What does the coalition agreement say about that? We'll take steps. This means that they will facilitate market players in their explorations, support innovations and launch tenders, review the financial contribution of public authorities and put legislation and regulations in order where necessary. They also ensure the safe and permanent storage of nuclear waste. That's what they say 12 years in advance. Anyone who is on the other side of the chair today and says that we should have done the same should have done so at least 12 years ago. What certainty will you provide with the route to be followed to ensure security of supply? I'm telling you, you're gonna get stuck. That's a risk we're not taking with this government. Mr. Dallemagne asked me where I was, and I told him that we're right on track. It has now been a year since we started working to ensure security of supply. Yes, there are uncertainties! Yes, there are problems! We never hid it! Several times here in Parliament, in committee meetings, in hearings, in consultation and dialogue, I have addressed every aspect of the CRM. The result is that we all know very well what that means and what path to take. So no, there is no uncertainty, and yes, we guarantee the country's security of supply. Mr. Wollants, 12 years old and a winding course. You can now ask me to devote everything to new nuclear power plants, but in the previous legislature you yourself have done everything for new gas plants. Just that winding course ensures that the necessary investments are not attracted. This government is working on a prosperous Belgium, because energy has always been the catalyst for prosperity in this country. We are working on the construction of infrastructure to ensure that there is access to cheap and green energy in our industrial centres, such as hydrogen import infrastructure, an energy island in the North Sea and the connection of the new second zone of wind turbines to land. That is the course of this government. So it is not binary for or against nuclear power stations, nor binary for or against gas plants, but we are initiating the energy transition. Mr Wollants, let us stick to the facts. I'm tired of listening to the little rumble about Russia. The debate on Russia, with its geopolitics, deserves all the attention. Mr Van Lommel, you are well aware that today 4% of our gas comes from Russia. The reason why we have so little gas coming from Russia is that we as a country are excellent (...) [[microphone disabled]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u55	You haven't really answered my questions, you've told the story that you tell every time and that apparently has to prove that you're doing just fine. However, you have two new gas plants that should be built but of which there is no guarantee, neither in Vilvoorde nor in Awirs. You say that we need to look far into the future, but in 2008 there was already a bill from the N-VA, signed by Mr Vanoppen, to keep these plants open for longer. That's when I wasn't sitting here. You were sitting here. You are twisting your fingers to hide the fact that there is a problem in the government. What exactly are you going to do? Are you going to decide? You didn't say it. Will you keep an option open for those small nuclear power plants? You didn't say it. You started complaining about Russia to me when I didn't even say it. I know you can't suppress your anger.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u56	Your policy is one of ten birds in the air but none in the hand. However, you will have to rely on gas from abroad, including from corrupt Russia. You will eventually have to deal with Putin and Lukashenko. You ask the Flaming to be more holy than the Pope, while you raise average CO2 emissions in your own country with your gas plants. You shut down nuclear power stations while many countries in the world, such as France, Great Britain and the Netherlands, are just using more nuclear power. What can be done in other countries apparently cannot be done here. The Fleming's wallet will be shuffled when energy becomes priceless. It will be. Stop the experimental policy and take an example to your colleagues from other countries, who do know where the clapper is.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u57	Minister, you're blowing hot and cold. You tell us "We're right on track" but, at the same time, it's full of uncertainty. You blame some Members for showing, but you do not answer the question, this simple equation: when and how are we going to have a very clear plan for our country's energy strategy? I didn't hear that answer from you. As far as Russia is concerned, you are well informed. When we increase our gas consumption here, Russian gas imports increase in Europe by a mechanical effect. It is a market that is now European. It goes without saying that when more gas is needed in Belgium, there is more Russian gas imported into Europe. It's clear, it's clear, you know, that's how it goes. Therefore, this geopolitical argument must also be kept in mind.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u58	Madam Minister, for our group, too much uncertainty remains about leaving nuclear power. It is essential to have all the guarantees. Security of supply is essential to avoid serious blackouts, which would affect Belgian households and businesses in the coming years. I would remind you that there are three essential criteria for a modern, viable and desirable energy policy. One, price, two, security of supply and, three, compliance with environmental and climate commitments. There is no need to emit more CO2 in Belgium and, therefore, to increase our country's carbon balance. However, when I hear a party president saying that pollution should not be calculated at the level of Belgium but at the level of Europe, then I fall naked! Long live solidarity! They're gonna be happy, our neighbors! No, but seriously, think about it, Madam Minister, before you risk making a big mistake!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u59	This concludes the oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u60	Madam President, Minister, two weeks ago I questioned you about the repatriation of IS terrorists, because you and your government chose to bring back six radicalised women from Syria at the expense of the Belgian State. This could cost more than 1.5 million euros. Neither cost nor effort were spared, there was even a plane chartered for it. That is also a provisional amount, because on 7 October I asked you a few questions about the additional costs involved in this repatriation. To my surprise, I have not yet received an answer to that, perhaps that answer will come shortly. You claimed and continue to claim that this action is in the interests of our national security, because here these women would be locked up and we could actively monitor them. There, in Al-Roj and Al-Hol, we have heard how these women often have more blood on their hands than men, so whether they are women or men, they are and remain terrorists. You replied to me perfectly two weeks ago that you guaranteed us that all ISIS women recovered were still under lock and key. The verb "guarding" is of course a very strong word in this respect. It turned out to be a lie. Whether you were misinformed or not, it is extremely disturbing that you fell completely out of the sky. That woman has been free since October, under very limited conditions. So it was someone else's fault, because you were misinformed by the federal prosecutor that day on December 2nd. Knowing that I was going to ask you that question, your cabinet would have looked at exactly what that fork was like. After that, I didn't hear a word. I might have expected a phone call from your cabinet that same evening or Friday, to say that you were mistaken, because mistaken is human................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Not a word! Has it never occurred to you in the past few months to ask yourself: tens, what would it actually be like with those terrorists we repatriated? Don't your services have the automatic reflex to spontaneously inform their minister about such a tuxedo gun? If that minister is genuinely involved, I think we both know the answer. Hopefully last week in Abu Dhabi, you guys were able to work things out. By the way, you should have been here when I wanted to question you. On Thursday we will question our ministers, but the Prime Minister was allowed to come back and take the hot chestnuts out of the fire for you. The fact is that only three months after her arrival in Belgium, one of the women is already at large, and that, as I said, under ridiculous conditions: she is no longer allowed on social media and she has to prove that she has one specific address. So far, your promise... in the meantime, she's still on your national list of terrorists today. That an individual judge judges guilt and imprisonment, that's normal in our rule of law. But you, and no one else, did bring them back. Without your initiative, this terrorist would not be at large in one of our Flemish municipalities. I warned you about it back then. It's incredibly difficult, and perhaps even impossible, to try these women here for facts they've committed over there. Hence my eternal plea, and we will continue to argue so that we do not actively bring back IS'ers, but bring them there before a court of law or an international tribunal. In 2019 it was even literally said by Alexander De Croo: "The last thing we want is to bring those terrorists back to our country." That's what he literally said. Let me ask you the same simple questions as last week to the Prime Minister, which I unfortunately did not receive an answer to. Knowing what you know now, are you still behind this active repatriation? Are there any plans for such repatriations? How will you guarantee the careful follow-up of these terrorists?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u61	Madam President, I would like to thank the President-in-Office, at the start of the interplays, for stopping the bickering between the majority parties, so that the opposition at least has the opportunity to take part in the criticism. Last week, I questioned the Prime Minister about the flawed succession of the jihadists in this country and the incorrect information you provided to Parliament about those six repatriated IS women. I asked him three specific questions. I didn't get an answer to any of the questions. There's a reason why it's called "questioning hour" and not "answer hour." I'm gonna make a second attempt on you today anyway. I start with the period before 4 March 2021, when the government was still of the opinion that IS mothers should not return. The Prime Minister literally said: "The last thing we want is to bring those people back to Belgian soil." We still don't want that. At that time, the Belgian government even successfully brought legal proceedings so as not to bring the mothers with the children you wanted to bring here. Meanwhile, the wind has suddenly begun to blow from a different direction and the Prime Minister in Parliament stated that mothers would also be taken back, even in the interests of national security. When will the government use this security argument to repatriate men in that context? What guarantees do you have that will not happen? After all, repatriation is now safer than trial on the spot. You said it before: they would be assured that they deserved to be punished. Of the six supporters of the terrorist group IS that you had repatriated from Syria in the last summer, one has been at large for months now. However, you guaranteed here that those six ladies are under lock and key. Either you deliberately lied to Parliament or you were not aware of that important dossier. I told the Prime Minister last week that I consider you capable of both. I don't know which one is the most disturbing. My second question to you is therefore to clarify how on earth it is possible that two weeks ago you were not aware of the release months ago of a repatriated IS supporter. Where did it go wrong? How will you ensure that such painful extensions no longer occur in such an important dossier? Thirdly, do you believe that a Syrian gangster who, after only a few months behind bars, has been released from prison in this country has effectively been sentenced to her deserving prison sentence? If not, are you prepared to drastically increase the punishments for jihadists? Fourthly, as fierce and fervent as your claim here two weeks ago that all those involved were still under lock and key, you claimed in your famous fervent and fervent style that they would at least be followed. What guarantees do you offer? This meticulous follow-up has sometimes been delayed in the past. Think of Noura Firoud, a bride of two Syrians, who got five years in prison. After a few months she was released with an ankle bracelet, without any control, and she remained a danger to society. How will you guarantee the succession this time? Fifthly, the return of that IS terrorist and her ISIS friends already cost about EUR 1.5 million to the taxpayer. Please clarify whether the person who has been released is receiving benefits to settle down in a Flemish municipality. Can we know which Flemish municipality it is about? Finally, Minister, I wonder if you are not yet complaining about expensive repatriation. In the meantime, have you not come to the moving conclusion that those ISIS gangsters should have stayed away? Are you prepared to return to that decision? Or are you planning to repatriate other IS mothers? If so, what are the concrete plans in this respect? I am happy to hear it today, now, so that we do not have to hear it from the newspaper, as we did last time, like all Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u62	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in July of this year 10 children and their mothers were repatriated from the Al Roj camp in Northeast Syria to our country. This happened after a careful and professionally prepared operation. We did this because our security services' analyses showed that certain threat files in our country are linked to the fact that children have been trapped in camps in Northeast Syria for years. In other words, the fact that children are held in camps is a vector of radicalisation in our country. Moreover, the situation was deteriorating in Camp Al Hol in such a way that it is, not unjustly, called a mini caliphate. Children must live there in inhuman conditions. Our security services warned us about this in the National Security Council. That is why we repatriated the children, as we did in the past. This time, however, we also repatriated the mothers. We repatriated the mothers for the following reasons. First of all, the mothers are threatening to become ticking time bombs in these circumstances. Secondly, Mrs Pas, the best interests of the child are paramount. Children and mothers should be able to stay together as much as possible. We didn't go ice cream in one night. It was a conscious choice to repatriate only the mothers who renounced ideology, whose threat is called unlikely by the OCAD and who agreed to the other conditions. That's why our security services went on the scene and screened the mothers one by one, with a thorough survey in an interview. After the screening, our services reached 6 mothers. Other countries such as Germany, Finland, the Netherlands and Sweden have done the same. There are still Belgian children and mothers in the camps in Northeast Syria. Our services are monitoring the situation closely and will report to the National Security Council on this. As regards the information I gave you here in Parliament 14 days ago, you questioned the Prime Minister. He has told you that the Minister of Justice has based himself on information which he has received from the federal prosecutor not the day before, Mr Metsu. That federal prosecutor saw that he was wrong. The federal prosecutor also confirmed that the prosecutor had given information to the Minister of Justice which was not correct. I admitted that at once. This was also evident from the press articles that have been published. So I didn't keep my mouth shut. Colleagues, the services were well aware of the situation of the ladies concerned and there has never been any problem of follow-up. On the six mothers in question, an international arrest mandate was issued against them by the Belgian justice system. Five of the six women had already been convicted, and therefore for them it was an arrest order for the execution of the sentence. The sixth woman had not yet been convicted at the time of her return. The woman who was released is the mother of a five-year-old son. She was convicted in absentia on 16 January 2020 for participating in the activities of a terrorist group. She resisted and was sentenced to three years in prison, of which four months were effective. The rest was pronounced with five years probation delay. The conditions of probation relate, firstly, to having a fixed address, secondly, to being at the disposal of a judicial assistant, thirdly, to seeking work, working, studying and providing proof of this, fourthly, to following a deradicalisation journey as long as necessary, but at least two years, and finally, to avoiding any contact with Muslim extremists, both online and offline. The woman remains on the OCAD list. This means, in concrete terms, that it is being given priority and thorough monitoring by the intelligence and security services. For your final question, Mrs Pas, please contact the competent colleague. The judge has ruled on the basis of the offence which provides for a minimum sentence of 1 month and a maximum sentence of 5 years. The criminalisation in the law was approved here in Parliament in 2015. Mr Metsu, your party has approved the criminalisation. If you now complain that the penalty is too low, it is also your responsibility. As Minister of Justice, I do not intervene in a judicial decision. The constitutional independence of the judiciary is a principle which we must not shy away from. I now come to the heart of the matter. The core is that in recent years there has been a lot of change in the field of terrorism, radicalism and extremism, driven by the parliamentary committee of inquiry on 22 March 2016. First of all, the previous government amended the penal code. Departure to a conflict zone and participation in a terrorist organisation were punishable by a correctional prison sentence of up to 5 years. It's that law used by the federal prosecutor to prosecute mothers, and by judges to punish them. That is the frame of reference and not punishment of 30 or 40 years or lifelong. That has been decided here in Parliament. The maximum sentence is 5 years, the minimum sentence is 1 month. That's the fork in which the judge judges. It is up to the judge to judge the matter and not to Parliament or to the Minister of Justice. Other things are pure populism. In that case, it is said that the judiciary has nothing to say and that the executive must do so. This is not in line with the values of our democracy. Make it appear that things should be different, shouldn't be. You are asking whether I think that judgment is fair. But what does the Minister of Justice have to say about a verdict or a judgment? If I were to rule on this, I would question the independence of the judiciary. Is that what you want? A Minister of Justice is not supposed to answer that. He's supposed to respect the sentence that a judge pronounces. Colleagues, that is democracy. That's democracy. That's democracy. Secondly, there has been a great deal of work in recent years to improve the exchange of information. We have indeed learned a great deal. Today there is succession of extremists and convicted terrorists. The succession applies to everyone, regardless of whether the person concerned is in prison or is leaving prison. I do not need to remind you of the OCAD list, the so-called common database on which dangerous extremists and terrorists are placed on the basis of certain criteria, the LTFs or local task forces or the LIVCs or local integrated security cells. These are networks, which exchange information and which, Mr Metsu, also inform mayors about the people who reside on their territory, and which identify which service is best placed to take whatever measure is necessary to eliminate any potential danger as early as possible. This method also helps for convicted FTFs who are released. The lady in question is indeed on the OCAD list. This means that she will be followed by the services of the LIVCs and the LTFs. In the case of conditional release, there is also the supervision of the courthouse and the judicial assistant. This is observed by the Communities, as you know. So you can rest assured. Returning mothers are followed in prison, but also outside prison. This government has, moreover, reinforced that approach. We adopted a strategic note on terrorism and extremism in the Consultation Committee on 8 September. We have also decided to almost double the staff of State Security to give the service more room for manoeuvre in the fight against, among other things, terrorism and extremism. Why is this approach so necessary? Because more than 470 people have been convicted of terrorist offences in our country since the beginning of 2015. That happened under the impulse of the federal prosecutor's office. You know that our crime policy is clear. All Syrian fighters, women and men, are being prosecuted. Mr Metsu, Mrs Pas, you are now pointing out to this one woman and some people are suggesting that this would be the first case. This is not a precedent. Let me give you the example of a case under the previous government. A Syrian fighter returned to our country together with her husband on 8 November 2017. He was known by the services as a hardcore ISIS supporter. The woman was released immediately. She didn't spend a day in prison. Where was your interplay with the government then, Mr Metsu? We didn't hear you then. That's what they call selective indignation. In fact, out of the 41 women who have returned from Syria to our country in recent years, only 12 are currently locked up in prison. They, too, will be released, Mrs Pas, I am warning you about that. They will be released and monitored continuously and closely. I decide. We are doing what is necessary in the interests of our country's security. The repatriation was carried out at the explicit request of our security services because the situation in that camp was evolving so much that it became very dangerous. We will continue to do so. Our services work day and night on the security of our citizens, to detect potential dangers in good time, to mitigate the threat and to prosecute and prosecute terrorists, but also to share with the Communities and the justice houses condemned extremists and re-integrate them, without claiming that this approach can guarantee our absolute security. There's no such thing as zero risk. No one can promise that. However, I can guarantee that our services carry out this work very seriously and thoroughly, for which, of course, I demand respect and gratitude.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u63	Wow, I don't know what to say. I would like to ask another question: should there still be an umbrella? Hello! It's everyone's fault, except for the trade minister's fault. The fact that we have been actively repatriated before is your next lie, Minister. It's a statement you know is a lie. Unbelievable. Indeed, you admitted immediately, after your guarantee last week, which proved not to be a guarantee, that it was someone else's fault. You're always avoiding your own responsibility. It's about your services, Minister. A mea culpa, a little sorry would have been in order, but you refuse. There is a term for such a personality. Madam President, we cannot work in this way. I asked two simple questions. I like to ask yes-no questions, because then there can be no turning around. The first question was whether, knowing what you know now, you regret this active repatriation. The second question was whether repatriations are still planned. We should know the answer to this question. You shut up and don't say anything. What you are saying is that the situation of those children in those camps was very serious and poignant. By the way, a child has also been repatriated without parents. I shouldn't tell you that, or maybe I should. You say those women are ticking time bombs, but also that a child should be able to grow up with the sweet mom. I've heard you say that, and I'm ashamed. We should almost feel sorry for those IS terrorists. This is unlikely. You also say that they must agree to the terms. That's correct. There is one condition: they must sign a charter that they will never do it again. That's unbelievable and naive. I am now addressing my group chairman because we have discussed the kind of motion I would like to table. I wanted to file a motion of censure first. I have absolutely no faith in you anymore. I dare say that while I look you in the eye. But a motion of censure would only end up with a sisser. So we have tabled a motion of recommendation, and I regret that now. After such an answer, you deserve a motion of censure, Minister. This is undersized. In our motion, we ask you to stop the active repatriation of IS terrorists and have them tried on the spot with the evidence available there. We ask you to ensure that security services and justice monitor IS terrorists very closely so that the security of society is not compromised. Thirdly, we are asking for these dossiers to be dealt with proactively and in an up-and-coming manner so that at least the Chamber is not misinformed. Fourthly, we are calling for political responsibility to be taken for the transmission of incorrect information by the services that are in charge. I would like to repeat our fourth request, because I still have some time left: to take political responsibility for the transmission of incorrect information by the services that are in charge. Fifthly, we call for an adequate flow of information between the Minister of Justice and the Magistrate's Summit. Minister, listen to your answer later. And stand, together with me, amazed of stunning.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u64	Minister, I did not expect you to make statements that are not wok at all. You talk about the importance of the mothers, but you keep quiet about the importance of the fathers. I have received no guarantee at all and no answer to my question. I have no guarantee that you will not actively repatriate the men under the guise of the importance of the child and safety in the future. No answer. Secondly, of course, you will not intervene in an individual case, that would still be wrong, and that is not what I have said at all. The judge decides if someone's gonna get jail time, and that's how it's supposed to be. However, this does not affect your political responsibility and the fact that you are at the root of what is happening today. The fact that some people get off so cheap before a Belgian court is only possible because you and your government chose to actively repatriate them to Belgium. That is the essence of the story! All the other examples you mentioned were not about active repatriations by the government, which is comparing apples to pears. The Flemish interest has always said that it is absurd and unsafe to bring these IS terrorists here. We have always warned that all those involved would be far too easy to get rid of, because the penalties are far too low here and because there is often insufficient evidence before a Belgian court for the crimes committed in Syria. We have always argued that those concerned should be tried where they committed their atrocities, where the evidence lies and where they would be punished, and not in the country they literally and figuratively turned their backs on. Minister, I have not received any answers to the questions as to whether there are any further repatriations or whether you intend to stop. Your silence on that is very clear. My group will support the motion for a recommendation which calls on the government to stop these active repatriations, which do not benefit security at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u65	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Koen Metsu and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplays of Mr Koen Metsu and Mrs Barbara Pas and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Justice and the North Sea, - heard the Minister of Justice's reply at the plenary session of 2 December 2021 guaranteeing that all six IS women, who were repatriated last summer, would still be locked up; - having regard to the fact that one of these women has been at liberty since October and the Minister has therefore lied; - heard the Prime Minister's reply at the plenary session of 9 December 2021, stressing that he still supported the repatriation carried out, supposedly in the interests of national security; - having regard to the cost of repatriation carried out in July 2021, i.e. EUR 1.5 million; asks the government - to stop the active repatriation of IS terrorists, but to have them tried on the spot, with the evidence available there; - ensure that security services and justice monitor IS terrorists very closely so that the security of society is not compromised; - pro-actively and in an up-to-date manner to deal with these dossiers, so that at least the Chamber is not misinformed; - to assume political responsibility for the transmission of incorrect information by the departments to which they are headed; - ensure an adequate flow of information between the Minister of Justice and the Magistrate's Summit." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Koen Metsu and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiries of Mr Koen Metsu and Mrs Barbara Pas and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Justice and the North Sea, - having heard the reply given by the Minister of Justice during the plenary session of December 2, 2021, in which he guaranteed that all six wives of Daesh fighters who were repatriated last summer were still locked up; - in view of the fact that one of these women has already been at large since October and that the minister has therefore lied in this regard; - having heard the Prime Minister's reply to the plenary session of 9 December 2021, in which he stressed that he was still defending repatriation, allegedly in the interests of national security; - taking into account the cost of repatriation in July 2021, i.e. EUR 1.5 million; asks the government - to put an end to the active repatriation of terrorists from Daesh and to ensure that they are tried on the spot, on the basis of the evidence available therein; - to ensure that the security services and the judiciary monitor the terrorists in Daesh very closely so that the security of our society is not jeopardized; - to deal with these matters proactively and vigorously so that, at the very least, the House is not misinformed; - to assume its political responsibility for misreporting by the services under its supervision; - to ensure an adequate flow of information between the Minister of Justice and senior judicial officials." A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Maggie De Block and Mrs Melissa Depraetere and Mr Ahmed Laaouej, Mr Benoît Piedboeuf, Mr Wouter De Vriendt and Mr Servais Verherstraeten. A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Maggie De Block and Ms Melissa Depraetere and Mr MM. Ahmed Laaouej, Benoît Piedboeuf, Wouter De Vriendt et Servais Verherstraeten. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u66	Madam President, I would like to ask the urgency of the simple motion that has been tabled and signed by my fellow Members of the majority. [[Assent]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u67	Minister, I was wondering where you were this morning, as we were involved in an essential debate about medical specialists in training. By consulting the doctor's diary's Twitter account, I found out that you were on the ground, meeting with the intensive care teams of the CHR of Sambre and Meuse. Of course, it is very positive that you are going to meet the actors on the ground who are on the front line in order to stop this fourth wave. I sincerely hope, Minister, that this visit will serve as an electroshock. Indeed, the situation in hospitals and, in particular, in intensive care has simply become untenable, since 804 beds are still occupied by covid patients, who are intubated and are therefore bedridden for four to five weeks. The situation is all the more alarming since it is between 60 and 220 beds that are now closed due to a lack of health care staff to supervise them. This means that less than 1,000 beds out of the 2,000 in intensive care that our country currently has can accommodate patients who are suffering from diseases other than covid. This also implies that, in a serious road accident, if the nearest hospital is full, patients will have to be transferred to another facility that is deemed to be closest. However, we know very well that, under such circumstances, every minute counts. To respond to this saturation, it was decided to close everything that is not considered to be within the scope of so-called "vital" care as long as more than 500 patients remain in intensive care. As I indicated in my introduction, there are currently 804. This measure is drastic and also causes organizational problems. First, the required reassignment of operational unit personnel, as well as wake-up rooms, to ensure the full capacity of Phase 1B intensive care may speed up the departure of professionals. Not to mention that the rest of the staff does not always have the capacity to be transferred to intensive care, simply because they do not have the training they need to work in these services. Moreover, this measure does not address the underlying problem, namely the lack of staff to effectively manage these beds. This was well illustrated by the words of Mr. Philippe Devos, the former president of ABSyM, but also by the deputy head of the intensive care department of the CHC of Liège. He confirmed it very clearly on December 3, and I would like to quote: "Today I have no problem with beds but with nurses. Of my 48 ICU beds, 6 are closed for lack of staff. If I was asked tomorrow to go up to 100 beds, like in the last wave, I couldn't. If we were to quickly build a hospital like Wuhan, the patient would have to treat himself." In other words, what is needed today is a real short- and long-term upgrading of the health care staff in order to be able to recruit them, of course, but also to ensure that they are maintained. Otherwise, measures such as the postponement of non-emergency care that I mentioned will continue to be taken, which is well known that the long-term impact on the health of patients and also on the workload of our hospitals will always be very heavy. You confirmed it this Tuesday in committee, Minister. It would take two years and four months to make up for all this delay in so-called "non-essential" care, without accounting for the delay due to this fourth wave and without counting any future waves. I would also like to point out that the classification chosen for this deferral of care is fundamentally problematic. Indeed, what is considered today to be non-vital, non-emergency, can become vital precisely because of a delay in care, a delay in testing or a postponement of surgery. Of course, I am thinking of a cancer that could not be detected in time or of a delayed surgery when it would have prevented the patient from having a fatal stroke. It follows that this distinction is made between essential care, so-called "non-essential" care which does not lead to health problems or limited problems, and finally, the third category, mixed care, this classification is not enough to guarantee the health of patients nor is it sufficient to prevent deaths. It is true that, like some of my colleagues, I have constantly asked you about this, Minister. If I come back to you again today with this inquiry, it is precisely because your answers so far, unfortunately, still do not meet the vital urgency of revaluing all these care professions. Minister, what concrete and structural measures do you think you are taking to increase hospital capacity in an immediate manner? How do you plan to recruit nursing staff, apart from the famous White Blouse Fund? You said this Tuesday in committee that the figures that relate the number of jobs that were created thanks to this White Blouse Fund were not quite certain. Can you tell us why? Could you get a report? How do you plan to improve the profession, both in terms of baraemic and qualitative work environment, but also in terms of compatibility with privacy and family life? Will you also look at the upgrading of nursing studies, in particular by examining the possibility of paying for the last year's internship? What are the approaches proposed by the working group that is supposed to address the issue of upgrading health care staff? What is the status of this work? As for the EUR 100 million budget which this working party has, and whose precision is my responsibility, do you consider that this budget is sufficient today to implement the measures decided upon and which are intended to support the healthcare staff? How would this budget be calculated? Do you also intend to give a signal of appeasement to the nursing staff by opening up, for example, a reflection on the recognition of the tenability of the occupation for access to the pension? We know how taboo this recognition is. This was already the case under the government agreement. You also announced this Tuesday in committee that an agreement on IFIC was on the government table. Can you tell us what the content of this agreement is, or at least give us its guidelines? Has the sector been at least concerted in this regard? When are we entitled to wait for this agreement? When will we be able to discuss it in this Parliament? Why did you choose to focus solely on IFIC, while the upgrading of the nursing profession goes far beyond this issue? Is this not likely to further divide the profession? Are you looking at the development of a reserve system for nurses, as many players in the field argue? Could you clarify what the current study on the supervision of intensive care personnel is? When can we expect to receive the valuable results of this study?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u68	Madam Chair, Minister, caregivers are at the front with courage and determination that force admiration. This is all the more true since the pressure on their shoulders is maximum and is even stronger than usual. It's heavy, very heavy every day. Caregivers are cracking, which is understandable. The situation is so serious that more than 250 ICU beds are closed for lack of staff, that many hospital units are also closed, and that many so-called non-emergency care is postponed. So many patients are involved. It's never before seen! Minister, my belief is that the quality of care is first and foremost well-trained, and in sufficient numbers. Today, however, the lack of caregivers directly affects the quality of care. All caregivers are under pressure. But let me put a special focus here on the nurses who are the most abused. Yet they have called for help! They've been repeating them for months. They have made many constructive, legitimate and reasonable proposals. A year ago, I handed over to the Prime Minister the memorandum of the General Union of Nurses of Belgium. It is not today that I relay their reality and their demands. So you don't listen to the opposition, either. But your job is to listen to the field. So let me relay in this House what the nursing boards and doctors say in their recent open letter for nurses. I will start with the nursing directorates and quote from this open letter that you cannot ignore, minister. "From Codeco to Codeco, or from chrysanthemum to chrysanthemum... when politics signs the killing of the nursing profession." Another excerpt: "You promised to take care of the caregivers in your turn, and without dragging. It was the beginning of the summer of 2020. More than 522 days ago." Still an excerpt: "We are 18 months later, and nothing has progressed. Finally, almost nothing, as the number of departures from the profession and the rate of intention to leave it have increased well. Very sad reality." Again: "So yes, today we perceive only marks of contempt for our profession, of "there is only" in numbers. All you have to do is open a medium care. Just shut down some activities and move the nurses to the ICU. All we have to do is allow other trades to do what we do. They say, minister, there are still a lot of lessons to learn. Elements and recommendations for action. The political world knows them, but it is easier to carry out one or the other new study to objectiveize the debate, because there is no deafer than the one who wants to hear. Let the political world stop showing empathy at a distance, to better show contempt for any decision. Today, the profession is full of it and is waiting for action, support and recognition. These doctors also, intensivists, who are entitled: "Who will treat us when there are no more nurses?" I quote: "In the last two years, we have all seen the heroic dedication of the nursing body, without which we would never have passed through this crisis. He deserves our full gratitude. From our point of view as doctors, without these men and women, hospitals collapse. It is urgent for them to get a real salary increase, to increase the workforce, because the standard of supervision – a nurse for three patients in intensive care – is mostly not sustainable, and to recognize that, yes, it is a painful job that allows early retirement." I'm telling you, it's all the caregivers involved. Doctors and pharmacists do not feel listened to or heard. As a general practitioner once said to me yesterday: "We are hard-wearing and corveable soldiers, destined to be used for sealing." These are very heavy words, minister. I do not remind you of the very recent decision that your majority has made for trainees doctors and dentists, yet permanently on the front for months. I wanted to relay here their word, their anger and their feelings. It is not to me that you must answer; it is to them who, for months, resist the assaults of the Covid-19 and invest themselves without counting for the patients. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u69	Minister, it is not easy for anyone, not for you as Minister of Health, not for our healthcare providers, not for our patients and not for our society. It's a hell of a situation we've been in today for 22 months. It is a health crisis but also a personnel crisis and a bed crisis, with all the consequences. It is not only the health situation that causes these difficulties on the ground. Inefficient use of resources and the sometimes unoptimistic use of people have caused us to have a large staff loss and our available IZ beds cannot be optimally occupied today. Ladies and gentlemen, we started the fourth wave with a disability of 10% in terms of IZ beds. That's huge, given the situation. This corona crisis has been going on for 22 months. The outflow of care personnel has tripled according to a study by KU Leuven and Sciensano. A third of the care staff indicates suffering from muscle pain, headache and stress. That's a hell of a lot, too. That too must be listened to. Minister, between the penultimate survey in June and the last survey now, there has been a 6% difference in care providers who say they want to quit their work today. What are you gonna do about it? How do you look at that? My colleague Frieda Gijbels and I have often asked you in committee, so often that you do not find it interesting anymore. That's how you report it. If we ask you about it, you always refer to the fund for the white blouse. However, in the MAHA Analysis of Belfius we see that the net result of that fund for the white blouse is 558 full-time equivalents out of a total of 45,000 care providers. That's a drop on a hot plate. I come here with this interplay in the hope that you will present real long-term plans, that you will be able to prepare a real revolution for the care sector, to provide them with sufficient resilience and resilience for a next crisis or pandemic. However, if I read the last questioning of Sciensano and I relate the malaise to it, which is evident from what so many caregivers say to me day in, day out, then I dare to question your functioning. At the first wave we weren't prepared, it was new and we didn't know what was coming for us. We may be able to overlook that, despite all the victims and efforts. However, in the run-up to the second wave, when you took office, no switching plans were drawn up and no resilience was built in. I'm really asking myself why that didn't happen. Today, omikron is at the door and the caregivers will write to you, the general practitioners, the oncologists and the clinical biologists. What are you doing? I heard you refer this morning to a law that extends you, which will allow more vaccine workers to work in the vaccination centres, a law that we told you two months ago had to be extended. Minister, I also heard you say this morning that you hope that the medical students will come and help in the vaccination centres. I don't know how long it's been since you've been at university, but that third shot needs to be put today, while my medical students are on the block. There's no way you can turn them on today. I have also asked you many times about the buddy work, Minister. I'm asking you again today. What will you do today for the crisis and tomorrow for resilience?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u70	Minister, on Tuesday, December 7, 2021, 4,000 caregivers were on the street and 10,000 people went on strike to demand more respect for their profession. The dismissal as a penalty in case of non-vaccination was only the drop that caused the vase to overflow. I heard it would have been an antivax manifestation but nothing is less true. On the street, the caregivers together asked for recognition, respect and real revalorization. Discontent is deep, minister. It's time you really listened to the caregivers. The same week, the André Renard clinic in Herstal had to close its emergency room due to lack of staff in the rooms. And now, Minister, you've sent threats. The director explains in the newspapers: "We were hoping for a response other than threats." Under your threats, they reopened the emergency room but closed fifteen beds in the rooms. Minister, how did you dare to do this and react with so little humanity? Not only in Liège, but also elsewhere the care system is on the verge of collapse. Today Professor Eva Goossens testified in Het Laatste Nieuws: "Whoever looks closely sees alarms everywhere. In the UZ Ghent they decided to close fifteen IZ beds during Christmas. That's considered a well-deserved leave, but actually it's a cry for help. They just don't get it organized anymore. I hear it from colleagues in Antwerp, Leuven and Ghent. There is a strong feeling of distress and leave. Many feel pawns with which they are shoved and from one day to the next they have to work on a different shift. It is often said that the system is collapsing, but the system is already collapsing. You can no longer talk about a normal functioning care system when one in three GPs is thinking about stopping or seeing as colleges that nursing students who are in their second year and internship during the corona crisis are losing out massively." All this, Minister, is not the signs of a system about to crack. But the system is cracking. Staff are completely exhausted and ask the government for help, not sanctions. The White Blouse Fund and last year's agreement on salary increases are clearly insufficient in view of what is happening today. We started this fourth wave with 200 beds in intensive care less than during the first wave. The workers left: 19,000 nurses had already left the sector before the pandemic and no longer worked in health care. You haven't been able to attract them to the area. This morning, we read that you are going to put 43 million euros on the table. This amount will be used to address IFIC's shortcomings: €2,300 gross for nurses with a particular professional qualification, such as intensive care. This means more or less 97 euros per month, plus 833 euros per year for nurses with special qualifications, such as palliative care or care in diabetes or psychiatry. Minister, you say this is a start, but no, it will not stop the bleeding. They're crumbs and people have already reacted. Here are my questions. Why did you react to the repression following the closure of the emergency room at the André Renard Hospital? Did you offer any help at this hospital? Have any other services threatened closure? What are you going to do about the emergency? Many people ask themselves this question: What is the status of recognition of the tenibility of nursing work? Do you not think that additional budgetary resources must be made available to put an end to the haemorrhage?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u71	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I think we agree that the situation for healthcare workers, particularly in hospitals, is extremely difficult. Extremely difficult! She's very painful. I think it may also be necessary to be clear about the analysis. First, there is obviously pressure on hospitals, given the number of co-vid patients who are hospitalized day by day and the number of co-vid patients who are in intensive care. It's a huge pressure! The resulting delay in care is not only very sad and painful for the patients involved, but also for the caregivers who know that they cannot function or do the job the way they want to do it. There is also the impact of the pandemic on the presence of staff. The impact of the disease on absences due to covid and, perhaps even more importantly, on the absences of nurses whose children are successively in quarantine. All this also affects the sector enormously. We are therefore stuck on both sides: on the one hand, the hospitalizations due to covid and, on the other hand, the impact of the pandemic on the presence of staff. It is therefore extremely difficult. This is in addition to a fundamental problem of market shortages. This morning, during a very interesting visit again to the CHR Sambre and Meuse, a nurse said that the covid crisis was an accelerator against the background of a deep crisis for our jobs. I think that's absolutely correct. I will therefore provide some elements of answer, but it is not complacent or euphoric. These are objective but obviously not sufficient elements of response. But perhaps I should like first of all to stress the need to combat the pandemic. We must fight the pandemic! Every effort must be made to slow down the circulation of the virus. This is the first challenge for me. Your group may not be very consistent there, Mrs Merckx. You're right to say that the staff are quitting. However, the pandemic has also prevented it. You're telling me kids shouldn't wear masks. If children wear masks, fewer children will be quarantined and fewer classes will be closed. Then fewer parents, also in nursing, will have to stay home for their children. You do realize that, don't you? You're behind that contest, too. Get rid of the masks for kids. Your new chairman wants to relax in the hospitality business. I think the hospitals are a priority. You have to be able to choose. You can't stand behind every contest. You have to choose what you want. My heart lies with the hospitals and so we do not relax in the catering industry and ask children to wear a mask, so that fewer children would be quarantined and fewer classes closed. You must choose and not stand behind every contest. What have we done? I say this without any complacency: we first made a very important budgetary effort. In terms of spending, if we compare what was done for health care in 2019 with what will be done in 2022, we see an increase of €4.9 billion, or almost €5 billion more. Much of the action can be temporary and is intended to help the sector cushion the impact of the pandemic. These 4.9 billion include $2 billion planned on the basis of an increased growth standard, which is significant, and 2.9 billion measures against covid and the impact of the pandemic. This is an increase of more than 10% in real terms. We can't really talk about peanuts! It would be the opposite. I am not complacent to myself when I say this, not at all, and I do not feel euphoria about it, but it is an effort that is both historical and insufficient. Let's recognize him! The social agreement. This is an agreement which the social partners have welcomed. It provides half a billion euros for the revalorisation of wages. They're not peanuts! It's not nothing! We have perhaps worked ten years on this new classification of functions. This was endorsed in a social agreement. The agreement reflects a good philosophy: to encourage those who begin. Priority has therefore been given to revalorisations for those with little seniority. Compensation is provided not so much on the basis of formal diplomas, but on the consequences of the function. It's IFIC. I believe, however, that we must note that there are gaps, particularly in this context of crisis. One of the shortcomings is the situation of specialized nurses – those who have a particular professional qualification or professional qualification – who in the past received premiums that have been eliminated. In particular, when they have some seniority, they earn nothing, they even lose. But let us not ignore what is positive: a nurse A2, with five years of seniority, earns 15% thanks to the social agreement. This 15% is the difference between the official sector scale and IFIC. Of course, hospitals may already pay more, but the intention of the agreement is not to increase what is in hospital coffers. Let us be clear on this point. Is that important? Yes. I heard again this morning that some young people enter the trade, work a few years and then leave the trade. When you can tell a nurse that she's entitled to a 15% upgrade, it's not nothing. A first-time caregiver is entitled to 8%. The problem concerns those with seniority and specialization. At that level, there was a gap. And this is where I propose a first measure: for a person holding a particular professional qualification, there will be a flat-rate supplement of 2,500 euros gross per year additional from 1 January of the year 2022. For persons with special vocational qualifications, one third of this amount is provided for, i.e. 833 euros gross per year. For example, for the last category, this is a nurse who works in palliative care. For the first example, these include those working in an emergency department, intensive care, neonatology, oncology, etc. It is a technical correction but it also affects a little of the IFIC philosophy, because it is based on the diploma. Is that enough? I'm saying no! I have been standing on this subject for a long time because it is not easy to change something in a socially agreed agreement with a substantial budget. Is this the end? No, but it's still important. That is why I said that the social partners cannot afford to stand still in the negotiation of the 100 million to increase the attractiveness of the sector. I also said that, in the public sector, negotiations on IFIC have lasted too long. It has been stressed over and over again to finally reach an agreement, but wages have not yet been increased, which is detrimental to the competitiveness of the public sector vis-à-vis the private sector. What can be said about the public sector is that the scales will also be revalued retroactively from 1 July. Do I show complacent or euphoric? Far from it! I see all the faults and all the work to be done. I believe that the nurse who told me this morning in Namur that this health crisis was never just accelerating a deeper crisis, is right. Are there simple answers? No, because it is not only about organization but also about human resources to create and train. It's not easy! Let's recognize him! But perhaps recognizing that this is a real social choice problem is already a first step. As far as the current situation is concerned, I would like to add a few points. It is important to stabilize hospital funding, which is what we do. Of course, it is money that does not immediately fit into the doctors' or nurses' portfolio, but it is important to stabilize hospital funding – the Belfius study was cited. Thanks to Mrs De Block, the previous government created an advance of EUR 2 billion for the hospital sector, which was actually transferred, to stabilise the liquidity situation of the sector in 2020. This advance was regularised by a first set of measures, which amounted to EUR 1.450 billion. Of course, the fear in hospitals was that regularization was less than the advance, to the point of having to pay to the state. The federal government has applied a little the same method, but not for all factors. To compensate for the financial situation of hospitals in 2021, 408 million euros were paid for the first three quarters of this year. In addition, last Friday, I obtained an agreement from the government to pay $143 million for the last quarter of 2021 and the same amount for the first of 2022. If you do the account, it's more than two billion in advance. In other words, on a macro scale, the advance is fully integrated into measures that will properly finance the situation of 2020 and 2021. It's important. I do not claim that on a micro scale, hospitals will not have to repay a little advance, but it is completely consumed at macro level by successive measures that will stabilize the financial situation of hospitals in 2020 and 2021. I am not euphoric, because it amounts to stabilizing something complicated apart from a financing mechanism that has become fiercely anachronistic – that's for sure. Secondly, Mrs Rohonyi, with regard to the postponement of care, my feeling is, indeed, somewhat shared. On the one hand, like you and many other people who are very worried, I believe that deferring care is, in any case, very bad. From a somatic point of view, one might still consider that to be okay, but from a mental health point of view, no. It's very bad for doctors, nurses, caregivers and patients alike. Unfortunately, however, this has become necessary because of the pandemic. Have specific instructions been given? No. Categories include non-emergency care. But we cannot say that there are no guidelines. The Belgian Association of Specialists has worked on this concept of urgent and non-emergency care. As a result, work has been done and guidelines have been established, but no details have been provided. Indeed, hospitals and doctors must be given the power to decide. Therefore, one does not fall into arbitrariness when one makes a difference between urgent and non-emergency care. But this is still an extremely difficult choice. Therefore, efforts should be made to reduce as much as possible the period during which this type of decision is to be taken. Mrs Fonck, I do not want to be complacent. But it is not true that 250 beds are closed. We asked to make an effort. In intensive care, there are currently 161 closed beds. So the situation has improved a little, even if it is not good. That is a fact and I am referring to it as such. The situation is being managed in consultation with hospital domes, experts and hospitals through the Hospital & Transport Surge Capacity Committee, where hospital couples are represented, as well as the Defence, etc. We are therefore trying to manage this extremely difficult situation in consultation with the field. Is this always a great success? Not necessarily. If I wanted to go to Namur, it was because the doctors of Namur and other doctors belonging to the same network had published a rather critical letter regarding the management of the Hospital & Transport Surge Capacity Committee. So I wanted to meet them to better understand. We are trying to organize things by calling for solidarity, a solidarity that is difficult. That's why my services responded to the action of Clinique André Renard. And I think they reacted correctly. We fully understand the exhaustion of the staff of the Clinique André Renard but the action launched does not help. Unilateral action, without any consultation, without any effort to organize solidarity between hospitals, does not go well. It's getting the others to work. It's moving the problem to other hospitals. Close an emergency department, a PIT, to the patients, Mrs. Merckx, do you think you're okay? Yes? Unilaterally and without consultation, we close. No, it's a crime. I have a duty to say that. When an administrative department tells a citizen that there is an offence, he must say that there is obviously a sanction. We didn't threaten these people. No, we just said, "It's not legal and it doesn't make things right." We will repeat this reaction wherever an uncoordinated unilateral action that does not fix things will be launched, while wanting to help at the same time. That's what hygiene inspectors do on the ground. The situation has been painful for everyone, I think. However, the reaction of my services has been quite correct and will be repeated in the same way a second time if necessary in another hospital. We can't unilaterally say we're shutting down an emergency department. We can't do this on patients' backs, but I understand very well what inspires this. I understand that very well. Let's try to stay in solidarity! I think everyone wants it. Those who have said, like Mrs Depoortere, that we need a perspective on the future are right. I am worried about the future in the medium term, especially if there is still a wave with the Omicron variant; I am worried. This is one of the reasons why I said that the social partners still have to continue working on IIFC. This must be an evolutionary scheme. In the existing budget, it can also be one. That is why I find that they must continue to work on attractiveness. Of course, this does not save the effort of additional budgets, nor of innovative ideas on the part of the authorities. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u72	Minister, thank you for your answers. While I spoke at length on the postponement of care, it was in no way to decry or criticize the measure, but rather to illustrate the importance of responding to its cause. As you have rightly said, this is ultimately twofold: on the one hand, covid - hence the importance of adopting measures to limit the influx of patients into intensive care units in particular - but also and above all, the lack of health care personnel. I sincerely thank you for your answers and I want to believe in all the measures that you have explained to us. Except I still have a doubt. Indeed, you have had a year and a half to upgrade these healthcare professions in hospitals. We know how much the members of these professions are on their knees and solicited today. But not just in hospitals. The whole of the first line of care today deserves to be upgraded. I am thinking of general practitioners, home nurses, kines, psychologists, pharmacists as well. You tell us that, in the field, you have been told how ill-considered caregivers feel, while their profession is essential to our society. We've seen him throughout this crisis. Despite this, this profession remains painful and even ungrateful. Today, caregivers are on the street, at least when they can. Last week, they were still thousands to protest. They are still sending you and the Prime Minister white cards. We also see that they leave their profession prematurely. More than half of the nurses did and left after only a few years. This situation shows that the measures you have put in place so far are insufficient. You mentioned the increase in health care. This is, of course, an excellent thing because, in the end, this increase serves only to fill the budgetary savings that have been decided by previous governments, in particular the Michel government. You yourself acknowledge that this increase is positive and necessary, but that it is still insufficient. You also mentioned IFIC reform. It was time for us to know more about this reform. It is really fundamental to be able to recognize the level of education and, in particular, the hyper-specialized personnel that are needed to manage these beds in intensive care. I understand that there will be a retroactive adjustment. Of course, it was indispensable. We will ensure this, but we will also ensure that this reform is carried out in consultation with the sector. I have not heard any certainty about that. I therefore remain concerned because, Mr.Minister, by pulling on the rope, it cracks. Caregivers are cracking and our health care system is cracking too. I therefore allow myself, minister, to ask you for real consultation with the sector because it has things to say to you. He has very concrete proposals to put on the table and to propose to you, in his interest of course, but also and especially in the interest of the patients. I have heard from you about the measures that you have put in place, but there are also all the measures that are being requested by this sector and for which I have not yet obtained an answer: the nursing reserve system, the recognition of the hardness of the profession or a career planning. You remain deaf to these requests and that is precisely why, together with Ms. Fonck, I am tabling a motion to ensure that you are considering these measures so that they can eventually be implemented. I sincerely hope that this time you won't be deaf.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u73	Mr Minister, you have raised a number of issues, but the first one you wanted to put forward is the budget. It is true that 10% more, in terms of the budget figure, is not nothing. They're not peanuts on paper. But here we have to be able to dare say things. The nurses have still not seen the colour of the 4.2 billion you mentioned at this stage. Do you know that the net salary of nurses is lower than that of a very large number of jobs available without a higher education? It is a figure that must challenge us because the way the state treats its caregivers is also how it will be able to treat its patients tomorrow. You're putting these $43 million on the IFC. It's a case that I've been in since the first day, when nurses - not just them, they'll come back to committee - received their papers and were able to compare their differences. What you are putting on the table today, Minister, is not a re-evaluation of the profession. This €43 million only offsets the deleterious effects of entry into IFIC for specialist nurses. Your announcement this morning, I still have to tell you, we will see very concretely what is happening with the first interested, namely the specialist nurses. I have already had a series of contacts and I still have to tell you that the feeling is heavy on the part of all nurses who are not concerned. Your announcement, you put it forward as a great victory, you presented it to the press as a form of upgrading, but I have to tell you here - because this is where it must be said - that it is felt by the nurses as if they were second-rate staff. At the hospital level...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u74	I don't want to lengthen the debate, but I gave the example of an A2 nurse with a 15% increase. It's also a reality. The problem is not all nurses but specialized nurses.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u75	Minister, we are being questioned, there is no interaction in the replies. Mrs. Fonck, you can continue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u76	I guess I'm gonna have 30 seconds more speaking time. [[Brouhahaha]] May I? Bedankt! Minister, I'm talking about the feeling of nurses in the field. You can always say that you disagree, that what they say is not fair or that it doesn't matter. My job is to come and tell you here. And if you take an example by saying, "Look, there's a 15% increase"... Madam President, I see my speaking time shrinking as we move forward. I only had three minutes left, the minister interrupted me, and now I'm scratched, I'm only given two minutes. That's weird. That's why I'm counting on a little flexibility. Minister, I believe you. You take an example, among many others. Stop hating your head! You refuse, in fact, to accept that nurses tell you what they are living, what they are receiving, what they see as a difference, now for a year, since you've been here. Don't go any further than a year! Yet I have a lot to say. These are facts. These are everyday facts. It is the facts of these nurses who are at the front. As far as hospitals are concerned, you say that their funding has been stabilized. There were advances. They're recoverable. You know as well as I do – I know a little bit about hospital funding – that it is in two years that we will actually see exactly what is happening. I do not think it can be said that funding is currently stabilized. Indeed, we have just experienced a wave of Delta covid, a new wave of Omicron is coming, many treatments have been postponed, which causes a major drop in fees and exacerbates the financial difficulties of hospitals. What I expect in relation to this is a real reform of hospital funding; it is a real reorganization of the organisation of care, in particular. Talking about the budget is one thing. But the reality is also to wonder how to turn to tomorrow. You said we have to give a future. Giving a future for you is the post-covid. I'm telling you as I feel it: the post-covid, Minister, it's too late, it's too far away. In the coming weeks, we must be able to send and give strong gestures, which cannot wait for the end of the crisis of the covid. The covid won't be gone in a month, not in two months, not in three months. I think you know as well as I do. Nurses, this is your armed force against the covid, but also for all other patients. This armed force, you can't let it down. They have put on the table a series of proposals that seem reasonable, logical and legitimate to me, whether in terms of standards of management, penitence, salary revalorisation, attractiveness of the profession throughout the career. It is also like this, tomorrow, that we will be able to reform and re-engage nurses. The reality is that the White Blouse Fund did not allow for the hiring of nurses, who were not available and not trained. These strong actions can only be achieved through concerted action that must evolve. You're probably going to tell me you're taking part in a lot of meetings. The feeling is not that of a real concertation, but that of a consultation which is too often a façade. I think you can bet on nurses and all of our caregivers. But to do this, Minister, it will take strong actions far beyond those you mentioned today. Sophie Rohonyi and I are therefore tabling a motion, which I am not going to move further. You'll have the opportunity to read it, if you need it. I thank you first for the caregivers and for what you will accomplish.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u77	Thank you, Mrs. Fonck. As you can see, we have experienced no difficulty in allowing you the time to reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u78	Mr. Secretary, when I get home, my husband who is a doctor will certainly ask me: and, what did he say? And I will answer him: nothing, nothing new. You're not listening? Thank you for your attention and for your empathy with my husband who is a GP, GPs for which you have so much respect! But this aside. You must fight this pandemic effectively. But you failed to take structural measures for two years to intervene. That's negligence. What are you doing all the time? You're pinting your accomplishments. You announce them as if they were acquired, but you still need to talk to your colleagues. As far as the 43 million are concerned, you indicated on the radio this morning that you should seek an agreement with your colleagues on this matter. This is unfair, Minister. You announce. You're honking. But you're not performing. As far as the 4 billion is concerned, Minister, 1.2 billion is structural. That was already decided under the previous government. Yes, that was already decided in current cases, by all of us together, here in Parliament. You've given it a little shape. Today you are talking about the attractiveness of the profession, but you have not yet done enough to pay the people we have to attract, to pay the people who have to stay in care. The flat rate for the home nurses who go to their patients every day in covidtimes, you want to pay out eight months after date. Respect for care? That is not what I call it, Minister. Advances in hospitals are not a structural policy. They're advances, no more or no less. You don't have a plan for hospital funding. You have no plan to make the care attractive. The deferred care, Minister, you can wave it away, but this is essential for the patient. The shortage of IZ beds is vital, you know that. As far as I'm concerned, and as far as a lot of people in care are concerned, this is unforgivable. Mr. Secretary, I have a motion of recommendation. I have summarised it in 12 points. 12 quick wins that will help you tackle this crisis, help you support care and provide resilience. Investing in the attractiveness of care. I give a list: a link plan for administrative nursing staff, a flexible framework for students and pensioners, a framework for and the creation of health buddies, IZ buddies. A next quick win is the booster shot that will finally start, with which everyone will be vaccinated in March. Get an emergency plan coordinator by hospital. Get to the parliamentary debate, which you may describe as uninteresting in committee. Let's make a plan together for the future of care, we'll learn from each other, I'm sure. Mr. Minister, point 10. What is your view on the use of home nurses at the general practitioner, in practice or in the residential care centres? The administrative assistance for the general practitioner, Minister, when will it come? How'd that happen? Will you organize this? Do you have plans? I didn't think today. Finally, respect. I've got it a little bigger on my document, but you're not looking, because you might not think it's so important. For me this counts and it is the beginning and end for every care provider, for every patient, for every citizen: respect. Someone who respects the care is someone who is working on a resilient plan. Unfortunately, I do not see that in you, Minister, but I do not hear that from you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u79	Mr Minister, let us start with the things that we agree with: what is happening today in the health care sector is also due to years of savings that we have behind us, imposed by previous governments. We don't need the crocodile tears of the N-VA: they were there to undermine health care! Secondly, 43 million, as you said, that is insufficient. That is insufficient in relation to the problem today. I do not understand why you say that this is insufficient and that, at the same time, you do not propose anything else. Why is there nothing else on the table? Why is there not this recognition of nursing as a difficult job? Why is there not a refinancing of the White Blouse Fund on a larger scale? Why are there no more salary adjustments? Next week we vote on the budget. Why is there nothing planned when people are on the street? You talked about Herstal's André Renard Clinic, saying that your services did well to send threats of punishment to this hospital. Imagine what must have happened among those caregivers who had to make this decision. The generalist colleagues I know in the area have understood the André Renard clinic and they prefer to send patients to another hospital, rather than to a place where the patient is not well cared for. I asked you a question that you did not answer, minister: did you offer any help? Did you cooperate with this hospital or did you simply send these threats? A third thing has to be done. In today's Het Laatste Nieuws, the nursing professor makes it clear: people must be involved in managing the health crisis. You need to listen to the healthcare staff and involve them in crisis management. That has been said, widely and at length, and asked in the Covid Committee, but apparently you do not. Last thing: you say that to manage the crisis in hospitals, you have to manage the crisis of covid and reduce the number of infections. I wanted to go back to what you said about the kids. Indeed, children – and not just children, by the way – pay the price of your government's mismanagement. Because it is your failure that we are talking today, if we are neither in the second, nor in the third, but in the fourth, and soon in the fifth wave. You don't have a health plan. The only way to manage the epidemic is by yo-yo. We open sectors, we close sectors, and we don't get out. Where is your health policy? How is it, Minister, that only 50% of the positive Covid cases were contacted by the contact tracking department last week? How is it that this tracing is a disaster in schools, forcing children to wear the mask? Why is it that people are still not entitled to 100% of their income in the event of quarantine, while experts – notably Ms Nieuwenhuys, who intervened in La Libre and who is part of GEMS – ask for it? How is it that there is no breakdown in schools? Why this lack of support for general practitioners? It's not the fault of the virus, it's your fault, it's your government's fault. Frankly, I don't have any lessons to learn from you. With the PTB and our Medical Homes for the People, we've been on the ground for two years to fight this damn virus. Every day, we're in the field! Here in Parliament, but also in other parliaments, we have intervened on many occasions to demand an investment in the front line. Even yesterday, in the Wallonia-Brussels Federation, we again proposed to hire Covid operators to support school medicine, a proposal that was not supported by the other parties. Here, we have proposed that workers retain 100% of their earnings in the event of quarantine, you have all voted against it. A few days ago, we proposed to provide all Belgians with free self-tests in order to allow them to test themselves easily. Here, too, everyone voted against. Frankly, with the PTB, we are not only on the ground, but we are making many concrete proposals. We'll be and we'll be on the side of the nursing staff for real recognition. Following my inquiry, I also have a motion of recommendation, which I will forward to the Chair.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u80	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A first motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Sophie Rohonyi and Catherine Fonck and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplays of the ladies Sophie Rohonyi, Catherine Fonck, Kathleen Depoorter and Sofie Merckx and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Social Affairs and Health, - having regard to the Act of Establishment of the World Health Organisation which provides that "the enjoyment of the highest possible standard of health is one of the fundamental rights of every human person', - having regard to Article 12 of the International Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, which refers to "everyone's right to the best possible physical and mental health," - having regard to Article 23 of the Belgian Constitution, which provides that economic, social and cultural rights shall include, in particular, the right to work and the free choice of work within the framework of a general employment policy aimed at ensuring the highest and stable level of employment, the right to fair working conditions and remuneration, as well as the right to information, consultation and collective bargaining; 2° include the right to social security, health protection and social, medical and legal assistance; - having regard to the disastrous working conditions of health care professionals, - having regard to the COOVID-19 health crisis which has a negative impact on the working conditions of healthcare professionals, - having regard to the fact that insufficient concrete measures have been taken to alleviate these working conditions; - having regard to the prevalence of the burn-out risk, - whereas the number of ic-beds occupied by covid patients is currently estimated at 804; - whereas it is estimated that more than 200 ic-beds cannot be used at present because there is insufficient staff to provide the necessary care; - having regard to the decision to discontinue all care not considered vital as long as there are more than 500 covid patients in the ICU departments; - having regard to the short, medium and long-term adverse effects of the above measure on the health of patients as well as on hospitals; - having regard to the reasons why such a measure should be taken, in particular the lack of care staff; - having regard to the numerous demonstrations and demands of healthcare professionals to improve their working conditions, in particular through the Union4U and the AUVB; - having regard to the numerous questions raised in the plenary and in the committees, the clearly inadequate answers given by the federal government and the weakness of one of the most important measures, in particular the Health Care Fund, in the light of the waterfall system on which it is based; asks the government - take concrete and structural measures to increase hospital capacity without endangering the health of patients without delay; - increase the number of hospital care staff and raise the quality of the framework standards; - the number of relationships to be created in hospitals; - report on the number of relationships in the care professions and non-care professions created by the Health Care Staff Fund; - to re-evaluate the profession in terms of payable allowances, the quality of the working environment and its compatibility with family life, both for hospital nurses and for nurses in home care and in residential care centres; - launch a reflection exercise on recognition as a heavy occupation with a view to access to the pension; - to re-evaluate nursing training, in particular by checking that the traineeship cannot be reimbursed in the last year, - to examine the possibility of setting up a nurse's reserve; - to carry out a genuine consultation with the sector on the improvement of working conditions and on all measures relating to the sector; - establish a clear timetable for the implementation of the measures discussed during that consultation; - report regularly to Parliament on the progress of the work of the working group to examine the re-evaluation of the care staff; - report to Parliament on the IFIC reform currently under negotiation in the government in the most transparent way possible, both in terms of content and timing." A first motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms Sophie Rohonyi and Ms Catherine Fonck and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiries of Sophie Rohonyi, Catherine Fonck, Kathleen Depoorter and Sofie Merckx and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Social Affairs and Public Health, - Considering the WHO Constitution, which states that: "The possession of the highest attainable standard of health is one of the fundamental rights of every human being"; - Considering the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, which guarantees, in its article 12, the right of everyone to the enjoyment of the highest attainable standard of physical and mental health; - Whereas Article 23 of the Constitution states that economic, social and cultural rights include, inter alia: (1) the right to work and to freedom to choose a professional activity within the framework of a general employment policy aimed, inter alia, at ensuring as stable and high a level of employment as possible, the right to fair working conditions and remuneration, as well as the right to information, consultation and collective bargaining; (2) the right to social security, health protection and social, medical and legal assistance (.) - in view of the disastrous working conditions of healthcare professionals; - in view of the health crisis of the Covid-19 which negatively affects the working conditions of healthcare professionals; - in view of the lack of concrete measures in place to address the above-mentioned working conditions; - given the prevalence of burn-out risk; - given the number of intensive care beds occupied by Covid patients, now estimated at 804 beds; - given the number of beds in intensive care that cannot be used because of a lack of staff to supervise them, now estimated at more than 200 beds; - in view of the decision to close down what is not the responsibility of the so-called vital care, as long as there are more than 500 patients co-viding in intensive care; - in view of the adverse short-, medium- and long-term effects of the above measure, both on the health of patients and on hospitals; - in view of the need for such a measure, i.e. the lack of health-care personnel; - in view of the numerous demonstrations and demands of healthcare professionals for an improvement of their working conditions, notably through the Union4U and the UGIB trade union; - in view of the numerous questions asked in plenary and committees in this respect, the obvious inadequacy of the federal government's responses, and the weakness of one of the main measures put in place, namely the White Blouses Fund, in view of the cascade system on which it is based; asks the government - Take concrete and structural measures to increase hospital capacity immediately without harming the health of patients; - to recruit more health workers in hospitals and to raise standards of supervision; - objectify the number of jobs to be created in hospitals; - to carry out a breakdown of the number of jobs created through the White Blouse Fund, between the care professions and those who are not; - to improve the quality of the profession in terms of baraemic conditions, quality of work and compatibility with family life, both for nurses in hospitals and for nurses in home care, nursing homes and nursing and nursing homes; - to initiate a reflection on the recognition of the tenability of the occupation for access to the pension; - to upgrade nursing studies, in particular by examining the possibility of paying the last year's traineeship; - consider the possibility of developing a nursing reserve system; - to carry out a genuine consultation with the sector on the improvement of their working conditions and on any measures affecting them; - to establish a clear timetable for the implementation of the measures discussed in those consultations; - to report regularly to Parliament on the progress of the work carried out in the working group to examine the issue of the upgrading of care workers; - to report to Parliament on the IFIC reform currently being negotiated within the government in the most transparent way possible, both in terms of its content and its timetable." A second motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Kathleen Depoorter and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplays of the ladies Sophie Rohonyi, Catherine Fonck, Kathleen Depoorter and Sofie Merckx and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Social Affairs and Health, - having regard to the late roll-out of the third dose of the COVID-19 vaccines, both in terms of care staff and risk groups and in terms of the broad population, despite the repeated demand by the Flemish Government and the N-VA group in particular, - having regard to the still unremedied legal vacuum in relation to the matter until further notice. the many volunteers (with a medical profile) in the vaccination centres that have been achieved by failing to extend the law of 6 November 2020 in time to allow nursing activities carried out in the context of the Coronavirus COVID-19 epidemic by persons not legally authorised to do so, resulting in many volunteers (temporarily) becoming insecure and risking their liability while remaining unstoppably committed to tackling the covid-19 crisis; - having regard to the lack of an extension of the rules on the so-called care buddies, i.e. helping hands without a diploma in care who, after training through a limited number of actions, can assist the nurses (temporary) in the care of the patient (i.e. all kinds of non-healthy tasks such as handing out meals, changing beds, helping patients contact their family via a tablet, chatting with patients and reading the newspaper, etc.), which means that hospitals no longer rely on the health buddies during the fourth wave, while there is an acute need for helping hands; - having regard to the need for respect for the commitment and thus the legal protection of the many volunteers who supported the healthcare staff during this health crisis and thus helped to ensure that our healthcare system did not hijack; - having regard to the need for respect for the care staff and the fact that every effort should be made to alleviate their work as much as possible and to provide maximum support, given their continuing commitment; - having regard to the massive breakdown of the exhausted care staff associated with the psychological, mental and physical hardships they experienced on a large scale during this crisis; - having regard to the imminent rapid advance of the omicron variant, - having regard to the rapidly growing gap in non-urgent medical care; - in view of the very limited increase in full-time equivalents among nursing staff, despite the creation of the Health Care Staff Fund. - in view of the lack of sufficient figures for the additional staff in the care and the breakdown according to the profiles, asks the government - ensure that booster pricks/re-doses can always be rolled out as quickly as possible and at the most appropriate time, by carefully monitoring the scientific evidence and results in other countries, which have previously been referred to as booster pricks, and by taking seriously and anticipating signals from the Länder; - ensure that there is sufficient support for the care staff, not least through temporary or temporary helping hands in the form of health buddies in the care institutions and volunteers in the vaccination centres, and that the facilitating regulation in this area is constantly followed closely and extended in time, if necessary, so that legal vacuums no longer arise, with all the consequences for the much-needed support of our care system and our care providers; - ensuring that there is always sufficient respect for the care staff and the many volunteers within the government and the public administration; - to keep and provide sufficient information (in particular to Parliament) on the additional care and administrative staff created; - to take structural measures to make the care profession more attractive, within the framework of a reinvestment of efficiency gains; - to focus more on crisis preparation, the resilience of care and a smooth adaptation of the healthcare sector to crisis situations, accompanied by the maximum possible rejection of administrative tasks and a maximum focus on patients and circular switching in times of need." A second motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Kathleen Depoorter and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiries of Sophie Rohonyi, Catherine Fonck, Kathleen Depoorter and Sofie Merckx and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Social Affairs and Public Health, - due to the delayed deployment of a third dose of Covid-19 vaccine for both health-care personnel and at-risk groups and the rest of the population, despite repeated requests from the Flemish Government and the N VA group in particular; - in view of the ongoing legal vacuum faced by the many volunteers (who have a medical profile) active in vaccination centres, a legal vacuum created by the absence of a timely extension of the Act of 6 November 2020 to allow persons who are not legally qualified to carry out nursing activities in the context of the VOCID-19 coronavirus epidemic, which has resulted in many volunteers from vaccination centres being (temporarily) uncertain and having to put into play their responsibility as they continue to engage tirelessly in the fight against the Covid-19 crisis; - in view of the absence of an extension of the rules on "buddies", i.e. helpers without a diploma in health care who, after training, can (temporarily) assist nurses by performing a limited number of tasks in patient care (all kinds of non-medical tasks such as distributing meals, changing sheets, helping patients to get in touch with their families by means of a tablet, chatting with patients and reading the newspaper, etc.), a situation which means that hospitals can no longer use these aids during the fourth wave, despite the acute need for small hands; - having heard the inquiry of Mrs Depoorter; - having heard the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Social Affairs and Public Health; - in view of the need to show respect for the commitment of the many volunteers who assisted the health workers during this health crisis and thus helped to avoid the collapse of our health care system, and given the importance, therefore, of providing legal protection to these volunteers; - in view of the need to show respect for healthcare staff and to make every effort to alleviate their work as much as possible and to support them as much as possible in view of their continued commitment; - in view of the massive defections within an exhausted health-care staff, linked to the mental, mental and physical suffering that he was confronted with on a large scale during this crisis; - in view of the rapid spread of the Omicron variant which we will soon have to deal with; - in view of the delay which rapidly accumulates in non-emergency medical care; - in view of the very limited increase in full-time equivalents among caregivers, despite the creation of the White Blouse Fund; - given the lack of sufficient figures for additional staff in the care sector and the distribution according to the profiles; asks the government - to ensure that booster/recall doses can always be available as quickly as possible and at the most timely time, by carefully observing the scientific reality and results in other countries that have decided to administer a booster dose more quickly, by taking seriously the signals from federated entities and by showing anticipation in this regard; - to always ensure that health-care workers receive adequate support, in particular through the use of temporary or non-temporary aids in the form of "buddies" in care facilities and volunteers in vaccination centres, and that the regulations on the facilitation of such assistance are always monitored and, where appropriate, extended in a timely manner, so that no legal vacuum can be created, with all the consequences resulting from it, in the context of the essential support to our health-care system and to our health-care providers; - to ensure that, on the same basis as public services, there is sufficient respect for the care workers and the many volunteers; - to gather and provide (in particular to Parliament) sufficient information on the additional number of health and administrative staff created; - take structural measures to increase the attractiveness of the healthcare professions as part of a reinvestment of efficiency gains; - to invest more in crisis preparedness, in the resilience of the healthcare sector and in its ability to adapt to crisis situations, while minimizing administrative tasks and focusing on patients, as well as ensuring circular mobilisation where necessary." A third motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Sofie Merckx and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplays of the ladies Sophie Rohonyi, Catherine Fonck, Kathleen Depoorter and Sofie Merckx and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Social Affairs and Health, - considering that the care staff is completely exhausted, - whereas the percentage of absenteeism, the number of sick and burned-out workers in care is worrying; - whereas more than 200 out of 2,000 beds are closed to intensive care because there is insufficient staff; - whereas the influx of new nurses is insufficient; - considering that the care profession does not attract enough people; - whereas 19,000 qualified nurses have left the sector; - whereas nursing students are dropping out on a massive scale; - considering that our health care system is collapsing in several respects; - considering that the workload is immense and the flexibility is enormous; - considering that the care staff has already given three corona waves the best of themselves; - whereas the care staff indicate that they are no longer able to provide the necessary qualitative care to patients; - considering that for years, even before the covid crisis, care personnel have been calling the alarm on wage and working conditions; - having regard to the fact that the funds already made available are not or are not sufficiently translated into the hands of the bed in the field; - whereas current wage increases on the table are insufficient to ensure that people continue to work in care; - considering that on 7 September 2021 more than 4,000 healthcare providers manifested, and as many as 10,000 caregivers ceased to express their deep dissatisfaction; - whereas care workers in the north, centre and south of the country are clearly asking for recognition as a heavy occupation and for real wage increases; asks the government - to work on the revaluation of the entire care staff - to introduce a real wage increase for all staff; - to pursue the recognition as a heavy occupation.' A third motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Sofie Merckx and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiries of Sophie Rohonyi, Catherine Fonck, Kathleen Depoorter and Sofie Merckx and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Social Affairs and Public Health, - Whereas health-care personnel are completely exhausted; Whereas the rate of absenteeism, the number of sick persons and the number of workers in health care suffering from occupational exhaustion syndrome are of concern; Whereas more than 200 beds out of the 2,000 in intensive care are closed due to lack of staff; - Whereas the arrival of new nurses is insufficient; - Whereas the nursing profession is not attractive enough; - Whereas 19 000 graduate nurses have left the sector; - Considering that nursing students drop out of school in large numbers; - considering that our health care system is collapsing in several ways; - Whereas the workload is considerable and the flexibility is enormous; - Whereas health care personnel have already given the best of themselves during three waves of coronavirus; - Whereas health care staff indicate that they can no longer provide quality care to patients; - Whereas health-care personnel have been calling alarms for years, even before the Covid-19 crisis, with regard to wage conditions and working conditions; - Whereas the resources already released do not translate or are insufficiently translated into human resources on the ground, at the bedside of patients; Whereas the wage increases currently proposed are insufficient to ensure that caregivers continue to work; - Considering that, on 7 September 2021, more than 4,000 carers demonstrated and that around 10,000 carers went on strike to express their deep dissatisfaction; - Whereas health-care personnel in the north, central and southern parts of the country clearly demand recognition of their profession as a heavy trade and genuine wage increases; asks the government - calls on the Government to upgrade all health-care personnel; - calls on the government to introduce a real wage increase for all staff; - asks the government to proceed with the recognition of the nursing profession as a heavy profession." A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Maggie De Block and Mrs Melissa Depraetere and Mr Ahmed Laaouej, Mr Benoît Piedboeuf, Mr Wouter De Vriendt and Mr Servais Verherstraeten. A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Maggie De Block and Ms Melissa Depraetere and Mr MM. Ahmed Laaouej, Benoît Piedboeuf, Wouter De Vriendt et Servais Verherstraeten. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u81	Madam President, I would like to ask the urgency of the simple motion. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u82	Madam President, Secretary of State, last Friday we had a long discussion with you on how you managed the hunger strikers' file, after they ended their strike last July. You have explained to us the different phases of this crisis and repeated your policy. On December 13, we had another bell sound. Here I want to talk about the testimony of the emissaries who represented the undocumented of the Beguinage. We were extremely shocked to hear that their story was not the same as yours. In other words, your version differs from that of the undocumented representatives who had been mandated to participate in the discussion. It seems, in fact, that there could be no question of negotiations, that it was, in your opinion, only information, that neither could there be any question of criteria, but of guidelines. Every word was apparently weighed. Together with other political groups, we asked you what was the fundamental element that had brought this hunger strike to an end. You then told us that good information had been given, which had made it possible to unblock the situation. This kind of statement is insulting to the various protagonists who are lawyers specialized in foreign law, who are NGOs particularly active in this topic and who were therefore aware of the problem. If we refer to the situation described by the emissaries, we can say that at some point there was a trigger that led to the end of this hunger strike. We are extremely challenged by this version, by the fact that they feel betrayed by you, by your firm, by your administration. Behind this, it was not their person who was betrayed, it was the strikers who had agreed to lift the hunger strike in a political context that was very delicate since two vice-prime ministers threatened to resign. So there was a crisis at the highest level of government. And probably one element intervened – it is in any case the version that was provided to us – and made this hunger strike stop. That's obviously not what you told us. The people who attended the meeting on July 21 in your presence and in the one of your administration trusted you. They relayed your words to hunger strikers who ultimately decided, because of your commitments, to lift the strike. On that occasion, you announced that if these people had lived in Belgium for a long time, that they were well integrated and that they were proof of their integration, they would be in a situation giving rise to regularisation. This announcement bodes well for the fact that it ignored the current practice of the Aliens Office, which did not take into account the profile of strikers. A framework was then established which includes guidelines with clear criteria such as long stay, profile of applicants, good integration, job promise, training, etc. However, when the first decisions to refuse regularization fell, the emissaries quickly disappointed when they realized that your actions were not in line with your words and that the July 21 guidelines were swept away with a back of their hands. That could almost be a political anecdote, I would say. Except that men and women built great confidence in the word that had been given. In addition, this allowed them to see a possibility, even if it was not ex officio, of possibly being regularized and of living in dignity. Above all, it was also a hope to finally see a clear line in the head of government, in which people could register. Because contrary to what you have often said, it is not a question of creating false hopes, but of the contrary. It is a question of having clear lines through which people can think that they are introducing a file because they are in the criteria. This also makes it possible to set aside a whole series of situations that do not meet these criteria. Knowledge of the law and the criteria of the rule of law is very important. I see you turning very much to your predecessor. I see you smiling. You seem to be surprised at what I'm saying. We are in a particularly important moment. I hope that you will not keep your version and that you will not tell us that in essence you have only given information. I hope that you will not continue to be insulting with regard to the emissaries, the strikers, and the bottom, in relation to a whole series of people around. This is not a demand for mass regularization as some words would suggest. Not at all! These are individual regularisations on the basis of clear and objective criteria which enable each person to make an informed application for regularisation. This makes it possible not to base false hopes on a possible regularisation. Of course, you need to renew dialogue and provide structural solutions that take human dignity into account. The representatives of the undocumented people told us that they were ready to come back to discuss with you, despite what was difficult and that they considered a betrayal. Therefore, Mr Secretary of State, I would like to know how you intend to restore trust with these emissaries, in order to find a dignified and humane solution for the strikers. How do you plan to deal with the ongoing files in light of the guidelines you made at your meeting on July 21st? What structural solutions do you intend to adopt? You said you refused to give false hope. However, you cannot maintain the legal uncertainty resulting from the absence of clear legal criteria and clear guidelines from your administration. In this regard, you have been accused of a lack of transparency and of granting too much discretion to the Director of the Aliens Office. So how do you intend to remedy this lack of transparency and limit the excessive power entrusted to your administration? Some parties of your majority are calling for the establishment of an independent Regularisation Commission, which can decide on the basis of clear legal criteria, while in some cases leaving room for discretion. Are you going to subscribe to this position that I share? It is time, Secretary of State, that we get answers to these questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u83	Madam President, Mr Secretary of State, lies, treason, broken words. The accusations made by the representatives of the hunger strikers in the Beguinage Church at your address are not of the cat. You are accused of making promises to the hunger strikers just to break that promise later. I'm going over the facts. The government was informed by a doctor in mid-July 2021 that one of the hunger strikers was dying. On 19 July, Minister Dermagne stated that in the event of the death of one of those hunger strikers, the PS would withdraw from the government. He was followed by Minister Gilkinet of Ecolo. In the middle of the crisis, the Prime Minister then drew the file. You were asked to work out an urgent solution in order to end that hunger strike. On 21 July, there was a meeting in your cabinet, on which you yourself, the Director-General of the Department of Foreign Affairs and the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless were present. According to the representatives of the hunger strikers, Mr Deswaef, Mrs de Buisseret, Mr Kassou and Mr Alliet, you made commitments at this meeting. They claimed the day before yesterday in this Chamber that you would first have suggested that if hunger strikers did not have a chance of humanitarian regularization under Article 9a, they would better apply for medical regularisation under Article 9b. Secondly, according to the same representatives, it was also stated in the consultation that being integrated into society would be taken into account as a criterion in the assessment of the applications for regularisation, which would mean a considerable relaxation of the regularisation procedure itself. Thirdly, they also claim that exactly that communication of the Secretary of State was the reason why the hunger strike in the Beguinage Church was stopped. That story of the hunger strikers' lawyers is, of course, contrary to the statements made by the Secretary of State here in Parliament, but also in the media, that he has not promised any new directive, any new instruction or any new criterion regarding the handling of applications for regularisation. It is precisely that message from the Secretary of State that the four representatives of the hunger strikers were shot in the wrong throat. That is also why the day before yesterday, in the Committee on the Interior, they thought they should accuse you of breaking words, treason and lies. Those are some harsh words that we in Parliament do not hear every week. Moreover, Father Alliet has added that he has been through a lot of hunger strikes over the past decade, and that he has often meditated on them, but he says that he has not experienced any such deception in the past as he has been represented by Mr Mahdi during his contacts with the current government. Colleagues, the Secretary of State confesses with the regularity of the clock as a great champion of transparency. Mr Secretary of State, you nod. You absolutely want to do better in this area than all of your predecessors. That is good news, because it offers us an easy solution. Let us clarify and find out who is telling the truth here and who is not, by organising a meeting in the Committee on the Interior in your presence and in the presence of the representatives of the hunger strikers, where both sides can tell their stories, we can check both versions of the story together and you too will have the opportunity to defend yourself against the serious accusations they have made to your address. Madam President, it is to this end that we are tabling a motion for a recommendation. Mr Secretary of State, I have only one question for you. Have you declared to the representatives of the hunger strikers that being integrated into society would be taken as a criterion in assessing the applications for regularisation or are the lawyers lying when they put those words in your mouth?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u84	Dear Secretary of State Mahdi, it is no secret to anyone in this room that the Flemish interest is one of your greatest critics. We rarely agree with you, witnessing the extensive intervention I recently made on your policy paper, on which I unfortunately did not have too many positive comments to make. When it comes to limiting the inflow, you do little or nothing. On the contrary, many of the measures that this government is taking are creating an increased influx. The return will not be increased. The closed centres which you called for at the beginning of this legislature are not available. We can't send families back either. Even a law on residential entry, or the watered-down alternative to that, was fired by your left-wing green and red coalition partners. Yet, over the last few weeks, we have had some interesting committee meetings, hearings on the hunger strikers, including a number of activists who have assisted the hunger strikers, sometimes even stirred up. These hearings showed that you have acted correctly, that you have made decisions that we have often been able to fully endorse. You almost didn't give in to the blackmail of those hunger strikers and activists. Nor did you give in to blackmail - as we could call it - or the increased pressure from your coalition partners, for example by saying in the media that they would leave the government if the hunger strikers went even further. Treating hunger strikers differently from other illegals in this country would, as you rightly pointed out, be inhumane. The only humane migration policy is a firm migration policy, with clear rules. The only regret in your speech of the past few weeks on hunger strikes is that you have not continued to do so when it comes to return. A firm migration policy not only ensures that there are clear rules and that some asylum seekers receive asylum and others do not, it also ensures that those who are not entitled to asylum are actually returned to their country of origin. That is where things go wrong, where your speech suddenly stopped abruptly. I return to my point, the only humane migration policy is a firm migration policy with clear rules. For the sake of clarity, I rarely or never agree with those rules, because I believe that migration policy in this country is far too left-wing and far too lax. Our borders are de facto open, colleagues. Democracy in Belgium is not going so well, but there are still some basic rules in this country, in particular that elections are taking place, that people's representatives are elected and that they vote on the rules that apply to everyone, including asylum seekers. How it should not be, is that extreme left-wing activists through asylum seekers, through illegal immigrants and through blackmail pressure politicians and government members and by means of backroom politics and negotiations will enforce exceptions to those rules. That's not how it works. The activists we were allowed to hear on the committee last week did not understand that very well, because they did exactly that. They have sewn up the mouths of people in difficult, difficult situations and, on this basis, put pressure on this government. That is absolutely unacceptable. Then it is those who blame you, how cynical one can be, that you have used negotiation methods that cannot be accepted. It is they who blame you for committing treason. The activists we have been able to listen to came to argue for the regularisation of the hunger strikers and for the widespread regularisation of many illegal immigrants in this country. This will only result in more illegal immigrants coming to this country and even more hunger strikes by people in very difficult situations. It is very unfortunate to see that your government is not in line in this area, because there is now a call for a renewed dialogue and an independent regulatory committee, which will actually ensure that a new migration channel is added. Mr Secretary of State, do you think a new dialogue with people who accuse you of treason makes sense? If so, what more could such a dialogue involve than the dialogue that has already existed? What do you think of the independent regulatory committee requested by some, since new hunger strikes cannot be excluded? Are you and this government going to start again? Are you going to use all the means you can to stop this? To what extent...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u85	Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Matz, Roggeman and Van Langenhove. Honestly, I am quite surprised by the urgency that is being invoked, since we held several hours' sessions on this subject in the Committee on Internal Affairs on 10 and 14 December 2021, when the questions you are now asking were also discussed and answered in detail. In any event, I thank you for giving me once again the opportunity to clarify my position on regularisation and to respond to the erroneous insinuations that are being disseminated. I understand that the subject affects the moods. It's about people's future in the end. But every file in my department is about people's lives, and I'll never lose sight of that. In my department all employees perform a heavy mental job; every day they make decisions about human lives. That's never an obvious job. I would like to stress that in previous committee meetings I have always answered all Parliament's questions in a transparent manner, not least at the meeting of 10 December, which was entirely devoted to the hunger strike and which, as I myself had asked, was not conducted behind closed doors. I have informed you about the content of all the conversations I have had, and that content has not changed and will not change anything. On the question of what was the exact trigger for the hunger strikers to stop the action, you have already received my answer. You can ask Mrs De Block what the trigger was at the hunger strike she went through. You can ask Mr Francken what the trigger was at the hunger strike he went through. Please put the question to those colleagues, including you, Mr Roggeman, I think I know the answer. I can understand that it was not an easy task to stop the hunger strike and I would like to thank all those who put their necks out for it. It doesn't mean I'm just gonna have to steal false accusations about promises I would've made. I would, however, like to speak for a moment on your question, Mrs Matz, and more specifically on the quotation you have taken back. I don't know exactly who you're quoting or who put those words in my mouth, but I can only conclude that they're incorrect. I will not allow words that I have never spoken in any discussion to be put in my mouth. If you listened carefully, the four guests at the December 14, 2021 session also clarified this point. They literally confirmed that no promise or guarantee had ever been made that persons who had elements of integration or demonstrated a long period of illegal residence would by definition be regularized. I propose that those who have been present on Belgian territory for the last 20 years, who present elements of integration, elements of vulnerability, introduce a dossier as everyone does, so that it can be dealt with individually. Yes, of course, that's what I do. Put in a file! I have never said, and I will never say, that these cases will automatically be regularized because there are always positive and negative elements that weigh in the balance. In accordance with my statements for weeks, not months, I confirmed again on 10 December 2021 that I have only clarified what elements can be taken into account, both positively and negatively, when assessing a case of humanitarian regularization. Good integration and a long stay are elements but this does not mean that they are sufficient to obtain the favor of regularisation. Mr Roggeman, you are asking for additional criteria, but there are no criteria, but directives. With criteria we get a different kind of regularization policy. The directives have remained unchanged. Mr Francken himself did the most recent amendments to the directives, since for parents with school children the regularisation policy was relaxed. After that, nothing has changed. Each regularization file shall be evaluated on a case-by-case basis, taking into account all elements of the file, both positive and negative. Both Mr Van den Bulck and Mr Roosemont clarified on 10 December that they have always provided information on the procedure and the positive and negative elements, but that there has never been any commitment to apply certain criteria or to conclude an agreement. Mr Roggeman, in that respect I am somewhat surprised at the fact that you may be able to respond to what Mr Deswaef said in his reply. Of course, that may be true, but these are statements made by the Head of Service of the Department of Foreign Affairs and the Commissioner-General of the CGVS versus statements by Mr Deswaef, a human rights activist, who I do not know very well to whom you believe most. You're free to respond to that. The confirmation at the meeting on 10 December by Mr Van den Buclk, appointed as a envoy, seems to have passed easily by several persons, including the four guests and various Members of Parliament. So I repeat my statement that I explicitly stressed several times during the discussion in July that the current regulatory policy is humane in my view and that I will not change the current policy on the assessment of dossiers today. I will certainly not pursue a different policy of regularisation for hunger strikers as for applicants who do not want to go hungry, but simply submit an individual application. That would be absolutely unjust. I have also had discussions with several people who imagined themselves as those who have solved previous hunger strikes, including Mr Deswaef. They assumed that a solution would now be possible in the same way, in particular a deal under the table. That is why I have been very clear, also to Mr Deswaef. I don't make deals because I'm not such a politician, I've never been and never will be. During the discussion I made it clear that the regularisation policy will therefore not change. I also explicitly asked for that message to be sent to the hunger strikers themselves. That's what I said the moment I saw them. I also said that it was not a negotiation because there is no negotiation. It was about informing, also because there is a lot of wrong information circulating about the regularisation policy and its application. You asked me how I planned to restore confidence with these four people and the undocumented in general, in any case the hunger strikers - because there are far more undocumented people on Belgian territory. I am always open to consultation, but I must note that I keep repeating myself and that the message is often distorted in the end. On the other hand, given the harsh tone and the accusations that have been made to me, but even more so to Mr. Van den Bulck and Mr Roosemont, I wonder to what extent such consultations can still be constructive. Moreover, after the hearing on 14 December, I must conclude that there is only a willingness to meet in order to negotiate on the treatment of the cases of hunger strikers and on the introduction of legal criteria for regularisation. With regard to the processing of the files of hunger strikers, I can only repeat that all the persons concerned were able to file a file which was carefully examined by my services, in accordance with the clarifications given on the regularisation policy. There can be no question of returning to these consultations because some people do not agree with the negative individual decision they have received. There are appeal procedures for this. I can only repeat the information I gave in the run-up to the end of the hunger strike and in the weeks that followed. I can only repeat that there can be absolutely no question of continuing to give people the hope that they will remain in Belgium as long as possible or engage in sufficiently extreme actions and that in the end they will end up receiving the favour of regularisation. I note that it is above all political actions that want to relax the current policy of regularisation or introduce legal criteria. My position on this has been clear from the outset: regularization remains a discretionary power, each case being examined individually. Therefore, I will not establish legal criteria or establish a regularisation committee. Previous regularisation commissions have shown that this is certainly not a magic solution and that it often does not lead to faster processing. Regularisation remains an exception to the rules contained in other migration statutes. That's philosophy, and she's gonna stay that way. This also means that all requests for humanitarian regularisation of ex-hungry strikers and other persons are dealt with in accordance with this regularisation policy. Mr Roggeman, you asked me whether I would have suggested that hunger strikers who did not have a chance of regularization should submit an application 9b to obtain a medical right of residence. My colleagues and I, as well as Mr Van de Bulck and Mr Roosemont, have also provided information on the 9ter procedure on several occasions. There are indeed legal criteria for this procedure. We have clarified these criteria, and we have always stressed that they would not be deviated from them. If promises had actually been made there, more people would have applied 9ter. I hope you will at least be able to believe Mr Roosemont and Mr Van de Bulck if you do not believe me. I was also asked for structural solutions. I have also dealt with this here, in Parliament, on a number of occasions. My services, staff and I work on it every day. For the first time, transparency was provided regarding humanitarian regularisation with figures, examples and elements that can be charged positively and negatively in the assessment of regularisation dossiers. For example, the report of the Foreign Affairs Office will now take place annually. In addition, I am committed to ensuring that humanitarian regularisation remains an absolute exception procedure. Categories that don't belong there don't belong there either, and they need to be taken out of there. In the short term, the handling of the files should be accelerated by strengthening the service and a policy of return for those who receive a refusal decision. After all, everyone agrees that an illegal stay is of no benefit to anyone. Anyone who receives a negative response after the stay procedures have been completed will be accompanied in the new procedure in an intensive and sustained way to return. Before that, I was in Antwerp this morning, where the regional return office was opened. In this exciting return perspective there is an eye for tailor-made guidance and per target group, with special attention to vulnerable profiles. That requires a human approach and a close approach. To this end, we are committed to the recruitment of more than one hundred return escorts, the development of a network of different organisations and the local presence through the development of a network of return points and regional return guidance offices, the ICAM offices. Since a few weeks there has been an ICAM office in Brussels. Today one is also open in Antwerp. There will also be in Ghent, Namur and Liège. Over the last few months, a great deal of progress has been made towards transparency. There was a clear demand for the activity report of the Foreign Office. It was in the coalition agreement. It's been done, too. I also note that on 14 December the four guests again stated that they are able to assess who is or is not eligible under the current regularisation policy. I'm glad to hear they know what that is. I am only a little surprised when I find that a lot of people have also applied for serious public-order acts, ranging from very serious violence over arms to other facts that are not at all appropriate in our society. If the guests know what is going on, they should know that these public order facts are not only very serious but that they do not qualify for regularisation. The debate therefore seems to me to be mainly about the fact that some people think that this policy is too strict and that there are mainly differences of opinion. Finally, I very much deny that there would be too much power on the part of the Director-General of the Department of Foreign Affairs. There is, of course, regular consultation between my staff and myself and the services, on both the general regularisation policy and all the files we deal with together, with the CGVS, Fedasil and the DVZ. I would also like to emphasise that I have every confidence in Mr Roosemont and I am surprised to see the attacks on his person. That there were attacks on politics, didn't leave me. That there were attacks on my person, didn't let me. I would ask, however, that my administration, our administration, the men and women of the Foreign Office be looked at in a respectful manner, that day in, day out, dealing with files, in a human way, and looking everywhere individually at whether or not someone is eligible for the favor of regularization. They do not deserve to be mocked as some unfortunately do, who then give their account at a hearing. I put my trust in the Director-General and in my services which work very hard and well. Colleagues, I realize that I haven't said anything new here. Mrs. Matz, that's a little what you had planned and you've planned it well. I keep repeating myself, but if you keep asking the same questions, unfortunately, I will continue to give the same answers. I am always open to a good debate in Parliament and we have already spent many hours on this subject. I can only call for the necessary calm in this story, not to give people false hopes and let my services deal with individual cases as must be the case today and in the future. I stand for a controlled and transparent migration policy with clear rules. The exception to the rule can be applied through regularisation, but always individually, in specific humanitarian situations, never for everyone. For many people, the only sustainable option will be a return to the country of origin. Those who do not want to recognise this are actually ignoring all the migration rules. That's not the policy I stand for. I ask you to work together on this better migration policy, a controlled migration policy that is not just about hunger strikers, which is not just about people without papers, but about the thousands of people who come here and want to come here and work in our society as a worker. I want to work on a migration policy that concerns the thousands of people who come here to study and want to learn new skills at our universities, to fill their backpack and to strengthen themselves. I want to work on a migration policy that concerns the thousands of people who want to use the many legal migration channels to move from one place to another in a controlled way. And yes, that is also about a humane return policy, in which people are accompanied, correctly explaining procedures, providing sufficient staff to accompany people in them. Yes, migration also involves a return policy. That's not easy. They are humanly difficult decisions that my service often has to call, but they are done in a correct way, in a humane way. I can only hope that we will not only focus on these issues, but hopefully, over the coming months and years, we will also be putting our energy into a better migration policy. There is still work to be done and I hope for the support of all of you, because together we will have to ensure that people get a migration policy that they are asking for and that they deserve. For the hunger strikers themselves and the many undocumented people who have lived very often in this period in a very animated debate, I think it is time to give serenity its place. Those people deserve that, too. They deserve individual treatment of their file and we give it to them. Please let us give them the serenity and peace they deserve.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u86	Thank you, Secretary of State. I listened to you without speaking, but in my speech you were taking advice from your predecessor. You just said these people deserve serenity. These people also deserve respect for the word given. So I'd like to ask you a question. You put Alexis Deswaef and Freddy Roosemont in the balance and stopped the N-VA asking her which one she believed. Are you telling us that four liars came to Parliament to testify? There were of course Mr.Deswaef, but there were also other protagonists, who all four said about the same thing. So there were four liars? That's what I hear. If you say at some point that we're trying to oppose each other, I'm not saying that Roosemont lied, I'm asking you for explanations. I'm interested in it politically. You're the politician. I'm not questioning your administration, I'm asking you the question. So there were four liars? We had four testimonies that were all in the same direction, saying that there was, at some point, a trigger for this hunger strike to stop. You are telling me that you have already answered on 11 December and you are asking me why I am asking you about points you have already answered. Don't you think there has been a new development since December 11th, that is, these testimonies in hearings, in complete transparency, as you like them? The committee has asked for additional hearings. You do not think that this is a new element which justifies today that we are three parliamentarians to question you? You seem to say I always come back with the same things, but no! If I'm questioning you, there's gotta be some new stuff. I have heard what you have said in relation to the fact that the same policy has always been carried out, that you have not changed from an iota, and that the last one that has changed things was Theo Francken who adjusted the regularization policy for school children. You have the impression that it is to the one who will have the biggest muscles, who will be the most severe, the firmest, etc. You have just said that this is what the population is waiting for and that we must meet that expectation. Don't you think it's part of the population waiting for us to be firm and pack up? I'm not saying we have to accept everyone. I'm really tired of this binary reasoning, which makes that at some point, either you're lax and you want everyone, or you're firm and you don't want anyone. We are not saying that at all! We continue to ask for individual regularization of the files, but with known criteria, so that people can decide whether or not to register in this procedure. That's what we're asking. We are not asking for mass regularizations. I would remind you of the 1998 law on regularization. It was signed by former Minister Duquesne – peace to his soul – and by Mr Verwilghen. In my opinion, neither of them was leftist. I would also remind you of the existence in our texts of a Committee on Foreigners. It is not activated at the moment, but it could be activated in order to give a supplementary opinion on the regularisation files, since the final decision is obviously yours. This additional opinion would focus on the regularization files, with a view to clarifying them further. It is not a question of accepting people who have problems of public order. We must never be told that. We simply want the criteria to be objective and to respect the dignity of everyone. We will return to the subject and continue to question you, hoping that in your Migration Code you will incorporate more objective elements for such exceptional situations. Indeed, what matters to us is dignity.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u87	Mr Secretary of State, in your answer you asked the key question in this debate: who should we believe? Should we believe the representatives of the hunger strikers, not only Mr Deswaef, but also Mrs de Buisseret and others? Or should we believe you, the competent Secretary of State? One case is certain, at least one party is lying. Someone's lying to the Chamber, and that's why they're lying to the people. You're washing your hands in innocence today. We are of good will and want to give you the benefit of the doubt. Then why don't you respond to our proposal to come to the Home Affairs Commission, along with those lawyers? Take the confrontation and check those stories. You are in favour of transparency, so are we. Let's run those stories against each other. Why would you refuse confrontation with people who call you a liar and a traitor if you're telling the truth? Pick up the glove, I dare you. Come to the committee and expose them as those who mislead the people and Parliament. Who are we supposed to believe? I believe that the error and the problem is not in your administration. In fact, I believe that this dossier is not the fault of your policy, Mr Secretary of State. The mistake lies within your government, especially with your coalition partners PS and Ecolo, who give false hope to the people involved over and over again, stir up the situation and therefore saw the legs from under your seat and undermine your policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u88	Madam Chair, I forgot to say that I have tabled a motion of recommendation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u89	Mr Secretary of State, to a large group of North Africans, most of whom we already know are not entitled to asylum, because they have so often rejected their application, of whom 40% have criminal records and are often driven by extreme left-wing or sometimes even communist activists, who sometimes go to stitching people's lips in difficult situations to create political consequences, you said earlier that these activists are driven by political considerations and rarely by humane considerations - the message must be clear that they will not be treated differently than any of the 150,000 to 200,000 illegals in this country. Let me make it very clear that anyone who wants to have consequences on the hunger strike, albeit by regularizing the hunger strikers, or by regularizing it by many other people, individually or collectively, is actually calling for more and new hunger strikes. This also applies to the members of the CdH Group, who want political consequences to be linked to it and who want us to set up a new regulatory committee with so-called new criteria. After all, they signal to the extreme left-wing activists and to the hunger strikers that they must continue in particular and that in the future if they want to obtain something, if they want to achieve political change in this country, they should not vote and should not do political or metapolitical work, but they should force people to starve, not drink and sew their lips shut. That is the signal you give, if you are in favour of collective or individual regularisation or for the creation of a new regulatory committee. If we really want to be firm and truly humane, we are treating asylum seekers in exactly the same way. In that case, Mr Mahdi, you should also follow up on what you have said here today and in recent weeks. You will then have to return to the country of origin any illegal person whose application has been rejected and may have been rejected several times. You will then finally have to use all the levers you have at your disposal to actually send those involved back to their country of origin. You also have a lot of levers, including at the federal level, because you do not always have to refer to the European level. That will be the most important signal, to finally achieve a firm and humane migration policy. You yourself talk about a migration policy that people are asking for. That's what you want to bring. However, this becomes difficult in a federal government with a Flemish minority. Nevertheless, I hope that you will be able to take steps in the right direction, after which we will finally be able to draw the sprint we need in 2024. Mrs Matz, you say that only a group of people want to roll with the muscles and want a much stronger migration policy. However, even in Wallonia, where people often still vote left and far left, often for lack of better and choice in the party political landscape, that is not the case. Why don't you ask people? Do a survey, if you dare. Ask every Fleming, Waal or Brusselser in this country what they think should happen to the 150,000 to 200,000 illegals in this country. The vast majority will indicate how to send these people back to their country of origin. Because we are very hospitable. A large proportion of the applications are approved, as we have just heard. We don't have to do any more, we've been hospitable enough and our country is now more than full. I am sorry, Mr Mahdi, that you did not or almost did not answer some of my questions. What do you think of a dialogue with the people who have called you a traitor and even a liar? After all, I must confess that some people may not be happy to hear that I do attach more importance to the speech of your administration, to Mr Roosemont, to Mr Van den Bulck and to yourself, than to the speech of someone like Alexis Deswaef or those activists, who were directly or indirectly involved in this matter, I shall say again that they are seizing people's mouths in difficult and desperate situations. I attach very little importance to the words of such people. I would also like you to be very clear about the fact that we are going to have a new committee on regularisation; that is to say, a new channel of migration of this kind, because that is what it comes down to in the end. There are already objective criteria, for the sake of clarity. Someone has the right to asylum or not, and those who are not entitled to it must return to their country of origin, unless, in exceptional cases, they can proceed to regularisation. Nor have you spoken any hunger strike or plain language that you will take immediate action from the beginning and that you will track down the people involved in (...).
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u90	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A first motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Vanessa Matz and reads as follows: "The Chamber, Mr Vanessa Matz and Mr Tomas Roggeman and Mr Dries Van Langenhove and the reply of the State Secretary for Asylum and Migration, in charge of the National Lottery, attached to the Minister for the Interior, Institutional Reforms and Democratic Renewal, - having regard to Article 9a of the Law of 15 December 1980 on entry into the territory, residence, establishment and expulsion of foreign nationals, - having regard to the rejection by the Committee on the Interior of the draft law amending the law of 15 December 1980 on entry to the territory, residence, establishment and expulsion of foreign nationals in order to supplement that law with clear, fair and precise criteria for the regularisation of the situation of people illegally residing in the territory of the Empire and for the establishment of an independent Regulatory Committee; - having regard to the debates held in the Committee on Home Affairs on 11 and 13 December on the treatment of the regularisation dossiers on the basis of Article 9a and in particular on hunger strikers; - having regard to the constructive talks between the Secretary of State, the Administration and the Sans Paper spokesmen on 21 July and the atmosphere of confidence prevailing there; - having regard to the finding that such short-term confidence was due to the apparent failure to take account of the discussions held on 21 July in the first decisions refusing regularisation; - whereas dialogue between the Government and the Sans Paper spokesmen should be resumed, on the one hand, in order to find a humane and humane solution to avert a new hunger strike and, on the other hand, in order to provide a structural and transparent solution for dealing with the regularisations; - whereas a number of majority parties have voted against the above-mentioned bill, although they now want clear legal criteria and the establishment of a regulatory committee; calls on the Government to introduce, for the sake of transparency and legal certainty, a 9a regularisation procedure which - is applied to each case individually on the basis of an individual analysis of each situation, - contains clear legal regularisation criteria, such as the permanent link, the right to family life or an abnormally long procedure, but which leaves sufficient margin for exceptional situations not covered by the established criteria; - set up an independent regulatory committee to monitor the application of these criteria in a transparent manner and to give advice to the Minister within strict time limits.' A first motion for a recommendation was tabled by Ms. Vanessa Matz and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiries by Mrs Vanessa Matz and Messrs. Tomas Roggeman et Dries Van Langenhove and the reply of the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, responsible for the National Lottery, Deputy to the Minister of the Interior, Institutional Reforms and Democratic Renewal, - having regard to Article 9a of the Act of 15 December 1980 on the entry, stay, establishment and removal of aliens; - having regard to the rejection by the Committee on the Interior of the proposal for a law amending the Act of 15 December 1980 on the entry, residence, establishment and removal of aliens with a view to inserting clear, fair and precise criteria for regularisation for persons in a situation of irregular residence in the territory of the Kingdom and establishing an independent regularization commission; - having regard to the debates held on 11 and 13 December last in the Committee on the Interior on the processing of regularisation files on the basis of 9a, which focus on hunger strikers; - in view of the constructive exchanges between the Secretary of State, the administration and the spokesmen of the undocumented on 21 July and the confidence in them; - having regard to the fact that this confidence was of short duration on the ground that the first decisions refusing regularisation did not take account of trade on 21 July; - considering the need to renew the dialogue between the government and the spokesmen of the undocumented in order, on the one hand, to find a dignified and humane solution in order to avoid the resumption of the hunger strike and, on the other hand, to provide a structural and transparent solution in the treatment of regularisations; - considering certain parties of the majority who had voted against the above-mentioned bill and now wish to establish clear legal criteria and a regularisation commission; calls on the Government, in the interests of transparency and legal certainty, to put in place a regularisation procedure 9a - applies on a case-by-case basis, on the basis of an individual analysis of each situation; - contains legal and clear criteria for regularisation, such as long-term ties, the right to live with a family or an abnormally long procedure, which leaves sufficient room for manoeuvre to meet exceptional situations which do not fall within the criteria as defined; - establishes an independent regularization commission to verify the application of these criteria in a transparent manner and to deliver opinions to the Minister within strict deadlines." A second motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Tomas Roggeman and reads as follows: "The Chamber, Mr Vanessa Matz and Mr Tomas Roggeman and Mr Dries Van Langenhove and the reply of the State Secretary for Asylum and Migration, in charge of the National Lottery, attached to the Minister for the Interior, Institutional Reforms and Democratic Renewal, - having regard to the clumsy settlement of the hunger strike, - having regard to the contradictory statements made by the competent State Secretary and the four representatives of the hunger strikers in connection with commitments made or not made by the Government; - having regard to the transparency always advocated by the relevant State Secretary for Asylum and Migration; - having regard to the Secretary of State's policy not to be blackmailed by hunger strike to obtain residence papers; - in view of the many uncertainties in this file and the role of the competent State Secretary; asks the government - to hold a new session in the context of transparency for the Committee on the Interior of the Chamber of Representatives in which the relevant Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration together with Mr A. Deswaef, Mrs M.P. Mr Buisseret, Mr Kassou and Mr D. Alliet are invited to clarify whether or not commitments have been made to resolve the hunger striker crisis; - at least clarify what has now been the trigger which has stopped the hunger strikers from taking action; - to continue the policy of regularisation and to make these files subject to the discretion of the Minister or his agent as currently registered in the law and certainly not to legally anchor any criteria for this, as some parties are now asking." A second motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Tomas Roggeman and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiries by Mrs Vanessa Matz and Messrs. Tomas Roggeman et Dries Van Langenhove and the reply of the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, responsible for the National Lottery, Deputy to the Minister of the Interior, Institutional Reforms and Democratic Renewal, - in view of the awkward management of the hunger strike; - having regard to the contradictory statements made by the competent Secretary of State and the four representatives of hunger strikers concerning any commitments made by the Government; - in view of the constant transparency advocated by the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration; - in view of the policy of the Secretary of State to refuse the blackmailing of the hunger strike to obtain residence documents; - in view of the numerous inaccuracies in this matter and the role played by the competent Secretary of State; asks the government - in the interests of transparency, to hold a further meeting of the Committee on the Interior of the House of Representatives, to which the Secretary of State responsible for Asylum and Migration and Mr. A. Deswaef, Mrs. M.P. will be invited. Buisseret, Mr. Kassou and Mr. D. Alliet to clarify agreements and commitments made or not to resolve the hunger strike crisis; - to at least clarify the element that triggered the cessation of the action of hunger strikers; - to continue the policy of regularization and to bring these matters to the discretion of the minister or his delegate, as currently provided for by the law, and above all not to legally anchor criteria for this purpose as some parties now request." A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Maggie De Block and Mrs Gitta Vanpeborgh and Mr André Flahaut, Mr Benoît Piedboeuf, Mr Wouter De Vriendt, Mr Gilles Vanden Burre and Mr Servais Verherstraeten. A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Maggie De Block and Mrs Gitta Vanpeborgh and Mr MM. André Flahaut, Benoît Piedboeuf, Wouter De Vriendt, Gilles Vanden Burre et Servais Verherstraeten. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u91	By letter of 7 December 2021, Alexandra Jaspar, Director of the Knowledge Centre of the Data Protection Authority, presented her resignation as a member of the Management Committee with effect from 10 January 2022. By letter dated 7 December 2021, Ms Alexandra Jaspar, Director of the Data Protection Authority Knowledge Centre, announced that she would resign as a member of the Management Committee from 10 January 2022. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 41 of the Act of 3 December 2017 establishing the Data Protection Authority, the Chamber shall, in the event of a vacancy of a member of the Management Committee for any reason, proceed to its replacement for the remainder of the term of office (until 23 April 2025). In accordance with Article 41 (1) of the Act of 3 December 2017 establishing the Data Protection Authority, in the event that a mandate of a member of the Knowledge Centre is open for whatever reason, the Chamber should replace it for the remainder of the term of office (until 23 April 2025). In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 40(1) of the same Law, the Director of the General Secretariat and the Director of the Knowledge Centre may not belong to the same linguistic role. Since the Director of the General Secretariat is Dutch-speaking, the new Director of the Knowledge Centre must be French-speaking. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 40 (1) of the same law, the Director of the General Secretariat and the Director of the Knowledge Centre may not be part of the same language role. Since the Director of the General Secretariat is Dutch speaking, the new Director of the Knowledge Centre should be French speaking. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 41 of the same Law, the vacancy must be published in the Belgian Moniteur no later than one month after the vacancy of the term of office. In accordance with Article 41 (2) of the same law, the vacancy must be published in the Belgian Official Journal at the latest one month after the opening of the mandate. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 15 December 2021, I propose that you publish at the Belgian Monitor a call for French-speaking candidates for the term of office of a member of the Management Committee (Director of the Knowledge Centre) of the Data Protection Authority between 10 January 2022 and 10 February 2022. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 15 December 2021, I propose that you publish a call to French-speaking candidates for the mandate of member of the Management Committee (Director of the Knowledge Centre) of the Data Protection Authority in the Belgian Official Journal between 10 January 2022 and 10 February 2022. No observation? [[(Non]] [[)]] Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] That will be the case. Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u92	The Government requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when introducing the bill amending the Act of 20 July 2006 on the establishment and operation of the Federal Agency for Drugs and Health Products, No. 2366/1. The Government requested the urgency statement, pursuant to Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure, when submitting the draft law amending the Law of 20 July 2006 on the establishment and operation of the Federal Agency for Medicinal Products and Health Products, No 2366/1. I give the floor to the government to develop the emergency request. I give the floor to the Government to explain the urgency question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u93	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to everyone. As I had already indicated in the Conference of Presidents, the government is asking for urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure for text No. 2366/1 on the establishment and operation of the Federal Agency for Medicinal Products (AFMPS). This bill includes the so-called AFMPS funding law which provides that all contributions and contributions will be paid by the actors, in principle before 1 January 2022. As the full funding of the Agency and health products depends on the approval and coming into force of this bill, the government is asking the Honourable Assembly to obtain urgency and begin work in the Health Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u94	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u95	You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. If there are no comments on this subject, I consider that these proposals have been taken into account. I refer the proposals to the committees responsible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If there is no objection, I consider the consideration of these proposals to be adopted. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be forwarded to the committees responsible. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u96	These questions have been developed in plenary today. These interviews were held in today's plenary session. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 206/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Koen Metsu; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Maggie De Block and Mrs Melissa Depraetere and Mr MM. Ahmed Laaouej, Benoît Piedboeuf, Wouter De Vriendt et Servais Verherstraeten. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 206/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Koen Metsu; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Maggie De Block and Mrs Melissa Depraetere and Mr Ahmed Laaouej, Mr Benoît Piedboeuf, Mr Wouter De Vriendt and Mr Servais Verherstraeten. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Vote result / Uitslag van de steming.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u97	Yes 82 Yes No. 52 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 134 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u98	These questions have been developed in plenary today. These interviews were held in today's plenary session. Four motions were tabled (MOT No. 209/1): - a first motion of recommendation was tabled by Sophie Rohonyi and Catherine Fonck; - a second motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Kathleen Depoorter; - a third motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Sofie Merckx; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Maggie De Block and Mrs Melissa Depraetere and Mr MM. Ahmed Laaouej, Benoît Piedboeuf, Wouter De Vriendt et Servais Verherstraeten. Four motions were tabled (MOT No. 209/1): - a first motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Sophie Rohonyi and Mrs Catherine Fonck; - a second motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Kathleen Depoorter; - a third motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Sofie Merckx; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Maggie De Block and Mrs Melissa Depraetere and Mr Ahmed Laaouej, Mr Benoît Piedboeuf, Mr Wouter De Vriendt and Mr Servais Verherstraeten. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Résultat du vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u99	Yes 82 Yes No. 57 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 139 Total The simple motion was adopted. As a result, motions for recommendation are overturned. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motions of recommendation lapse.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u100	These questions have been developed in plenary today. These interviews were held in today's plenary session. Three motions were tabled (MOT No. 215/1): - a first motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Vanessa Matz; - a second motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Tomas Roggeman; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Maggie De Block and Mrs Gitta Vanpeborgh and Mr MM. André Flahaut, Benoît Piedboeuf, Wouter De Vriendt, Gilles Vanden Burre et Servais Verherstraeten. Three motions were tabled (MOT No. 215/1): - a first motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Vanessa Matz; - a second motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Tomas Roggeman; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Maggie De Block and Mrs Gitta Vanpeborgh and Mr André Flahaut, Mr Benoît Piedboeuf, Mr Wouter De Vriendt, Mr Gilles Vanden Burre and Mr Servais Verherstraeten. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Vote result / Uitslag van de steming.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u101	Yes [[85]] Yes No. 58 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 143 Total The simple motion was adopted. As a result, motions for recommendation are overturned. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motions of recommendation lapse.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u102	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u103	Yes 112 Yes No. [[22]] No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u104	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u105	Yes 87 Yes No. [[18]] No Abstentions 36 Abstensions Total 141 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u106	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u107	Yes 88 Yes No. 1 No Abstentions 55 Abstensions Total 144 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u108	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u109	Yes 133 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 11 Abstensions Total 144 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u110	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u111	Yes [[114]] Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 29 Abstensions Total 143 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u112	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u113	Yes 144 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 144 Total Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent. Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u114	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u115	Yes 142 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 142 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be forwarded to the Senate. Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be sent to the Senate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u116	Vote on Amendment No 6 by Wim Van der Donckt cs to Article 2.(2376/7) Vote on Amendment No 6 by Wim Van der Donkt cs on article 2.(2376/7) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u117	Yes [[47]] Yes No. 96 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 143 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 10 by Raoul Hedebouw to Article 2.(2376/7) Vote on Amendment No 10 by Raoul Hedebouw on article 2.(2376/7) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u118	Yes [[29]] Yes No. [[114]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 143 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 9 by Barbara Pas cs to Article 2.(2376/7) Vote on Amendment No 9 by Barbara Pas cs on Article 2.(2376/7) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u119	Yes [[18]] Yes No. 90 No Abstentions 35 Abstensions Total 143 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 7 by Wim Van der Donckt cs to insert an Article 3(n).(2376/7) Vote on Amendment No 7 by Wim Van der Donkt cs to insert an article 3(n).(2376/7) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u120	Yes 57 Yes No. 86 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 143 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 8 by Wim Van der Donckt cs to insert an Article 4(n).(2376/7) Vote on Amendment No 8 by Wim Van der Donkt cs to insert an article 4(n).(2376/7) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u121	Yes 57 Yes No. 86 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 143 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u122	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u123	Yes 110 Yes No. [[11]] No Abstentions 18 Abstensions Total 139 Total Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be forwarded as a bill to the Senate. Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be sent to the Senate as a draft. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u124	We must approve the agenda for next week's sittings. We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for next week's meetings. "Pas-d-d-observation"? Are you sure you don't mind?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u125	Madam President, we agree with the agenda, but there are a number of people who are not familiar with the work of the committee. That determines what we can actually do.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip148x.u126	Are there any other observations? [[No]] The agenda was approved. Are there any other comments? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Tuesday, December 21, 2021, at 9:00 a.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting at 9 a.m. on Tuesday 21 December 2021
