ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic441x.u1	Mr President, Minister, I would like to take you back in time to 24 March 2021, to be precise. At that time, the Consultation Committee introduced an Easter break to impose a number of additional measures to prevent the further spread of the coronavirus. One of these measures was that non-essential shops would not be obliged to close the doors, but to receive customers by appointment. This measure will expire on 26 April 2021, but I still think it is important to keep this interplay. Almost immediately after the measures came into force, we saw clearly that there was a real drain in shopping streets and shopping centres. The images spoke for themselves. In a press release, COMEOS, the Federation of Belgian Trade and Services, made it very clear that shopping by appointment caused a dramatic situation in the shopping streets. They even asked around a count. There was talk of turnover losses from 60% to 85%. They were very concerned. We are also very concerned about this. After all, there is talk of a loss of revenue of EUR 1 billion and of many jobs that would be at risk. We also see that even before the corona outbreak, the retail sector was already in particularly difficult papers. This situation has only got worse over the past year. We also often found that shopkeepers, when people went shopping, acted as some kind of glorified secretary who only recorded the customer's name and phone number upon entering. Then one can ask oneself questions about the meaning and nonsense of things. That is why I have a number of pertinent questions today. There has been a significant loss of income. Do you, as Minister, acknowledge the concerns expressed by Comeos? They reported that the situation was particularly dramatic. What compensatory measures have you, as a government, put against this? What are you doing in the event of such measures to prevent further failures in the retail sector? I would also have liked to have heard from you that in this case the shopkeepers would be responsible for the further spread of the coronavirus and whether those income-reduction measures were also effectively necessary for them. Or were they merely a deterrent? I would also like to know from you what discussions you have had with your government and the federations concerned and what they have led to.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic441x.u2	Mr President, Mr Van Lommel, thank you for your question and for the delay. I am aware that the situation is very difficult for traders, and in particular for all sectors affected by the crisis. As you know, non-essential shops will be able to work again without an appointment on 26 April. However, the health situation remains very serious and the Consultation Committee takes the necessary measures, on the basis of expert advice, to avoid overloading our hospital capacity. If capacity were to become saturated, it would mean a real health disaster. The situation in Brazil shows painfully what an overload of the hospital system can lead to. I am aware that the decisions made are difficult for the population, but they do save lives. At present, more than 500,000 people are vaccinated every week. The vaccination gives hope and will also make it possible to regain our freedom without endangering the health of our citizens. I also know that the economic situation is difficult for business. Indeed, the first figures show a significant decrease in turnover for almost all sectors of the specialised retail sector in 2020. We are paying attention to the difficult situation. Companies and employees can count on the various support measures to get through the crisis. Affected traders can still count on the existing support measures, such as temporary unemployment due to force majeure and the right to bridge if the monthly turnover is 40% lower than in 2019. For companies that cannot work by appointment, have to stop their activities or can only operate via Click & Collect or delivery, it is possible to rely on the double bridging right for the months of March and April 2021. As part of its powers, the federal government tried to compensate for the losses resulting from the lockdown measures of the Consultation Committee. There are many questions for support, and we try to answer as many questions as possible by listening to the difficulties and responding as appropriately as possible. That was on the table of the nuclear cabinet this morning, and we are working on new support measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic441x.u3	Mr. Secretary, I think your answer is a skinny one. You say that you are aware of the difficult situation, of the seriousness of the health situation, of the need to safeguard hospital capacity. Now, there is no doubt about that and I do not think anyone in this House is questioning it. If measures are to be taken, they must be taken. I don't want to put the economy above health. There must indeed be no play with the health of the people, and every dead is one too many. But we must not play with the chances of survival of our merchants, because there must also be an economy after corona. And that is why I think it is particularly important that no policy of trial and error is pursued. During the past year, the Consultative Committee has tried to take many different types of action, each time different. It is particularly important to me that measures have a scientific basis and are targeted. If there is no evidence that shopkeepers are responsible for the further spread of the corona virus, then I do not think that we should impose income reduction measures. I point out this need for a scientific basis over and over again, but as a government you cannot give a satisfactory answer. Nor could your colleague, Mrs Verlinden, in the topical and urgent debate a few weeks ago. That is very unfortunate, because that actually indirectly indicates that you are taking measures that are not really substantiated and that you are actually doing things just like that. That's very dangerous, isn't it? We can't do trial and error. That is why I have prepared a motion for a recommendation. I'll hand it over, too. In this we are clearly asking for action to be taken on the basis of demonstrable scientific evidence. That scientific evidence is not that there are more people on intensive concerns or that there are more infections. By scientific evidence, I clearly mean that those affected by these measures are also effectively responsible for higher levels of contamination. In the absence of that scientific evidence, there will be no income-limiting measures that harm our economic fabric and also ensure that those people get into even more trouble after corona. I would also like to make it very clear that the measures taken are being communicated with tact and with one voice. Also when it comes to traders, we see very clearly that different views of government members appear in the newspapers, making it more difficult for both traders and consumers, not only to understand what these measures are, but also to maintain their support. I would also ask that the prospects set out be honoured.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic441x.u4	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Reccino Van Lommel and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mr Reccino Van Lommel and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Economy and Work, - having regard to the measures adopted pursuant to the decisions of the Consultative Committee of 24 March.; - having regard to the absence of scientific evidence of causality and correlation showing that shopping contributes to increased corona contamination, - having regard to the loss of turnover resulting therefrom, - having regard to the press release of Comeos, the Federation of Belgian Trade and Services, - gelet op de precaire situatie van de retailsector; - having regard to the statements made by Minister Frank Vandenbroucke that "a shock effect must be created"; whereas our companies and the resulting jobs must be protected; asks the government - take measures on the basis of demonstrable scientific evidence, - in the absence of such measures, not to introduce tax-restricting measures which cause serious damage to the economic fabric; - tactful and not to fail to communicate the measures taken from a mouth; - to honour prospects set out. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Reccino Van Lommel and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr Reccino Van Lommel and the response of the Minister of Economy and Labour, - in the light of the measures taken following the decisions of the Conciliation Committee of 24 March; - in view of the lack of scientific evidence in terms of causality and correlation, which can demonstrate that shopping contributes to the increase of contamination in covid-19; - in view of the loss of turnover resulting from this measure; - having regard to the press release of Comeos, the Belgian Federation of Trade and Services; - in view of the precarious situation in the retail sector; - in the light of the remarks made by Minister Frank Vandenbroucke that "it is necessary to create a shock effect"; - Whereas it is necessary to protect our enterprises and the jobs they generate; asks the government - to take action on the basis of clear scientific evidence; - in the absence of such evidence, to refrain from adopting income-reducing measures which seriously harm the economic fabric; - communicating the measures taken with tact and ensuring that they are expressed with one voice; - to respect the announced prospects. A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Leslie Leoni. A simple motion was tabled by Ms. Leslie Leoni. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic441x.u5	As you know, a few weeks ago, the committee asked for an exchange of views with the Secretary of State on the plan that was developed. The Secretary of State had obviously said he was ready to come to committee to discuss it. Ladies and gentlemen, we have asked you to provide as much information as possible to make the exchange of views useful. You received the comprehensive plan last weekend. I hope everyone's been able to read it. That was very extensive and very detailed. There was also an opinion in the media from the Federal Planning Office. We have also requested this advice, but it is not yet final. However, we have received the power point from the communication of the Federal Planning Office. We have also delivered them to you so that you know the main lines of the opinion. I think that we have sufficient basis and documents to have a useful debate. Since it is an exchange of views, we will proceed as follows: the Secretary of State will give an introduction to the plan for up to half an hour and then the interpreters and the questioners will be given the floor in the order of submission. A number of questions may have already been answered in the presentation, but perhaps some elements have not yet been answered. Then you can ask additional questions or respond to what you have heard. You are free to do so. It is an exchange of views, but let us not take half an hour per person to discuss and go to the heart of the discussion. The Secretary of State will answer the supplementary questions, knowing that the last word is always for Members of Parliament. We'll work that way. This will be a fruitful discussion. The Secretary of State has prepared a powerpoint presentation. Mr Secretary of State, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic441x.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am glad to be back here. Before we start, as proposed by Mrs Houtmeyers and Mrs Van Bossuyt, I brought sugar beans for the birth of my second daughter. I will try in half an hour to give you a small overview of our plans, which you received this weekend. This overview consists of four points: firstly, a very brief overview of the development process of the PHV; secondly, the guidelines of our plan; thirdly, the opinions and the first impact analyses made by the Federal Planning Bureau, the Institut pour l'égalité des femmes et des hommes and various federal administrations and, finally, the conclusion and presentation of the next steps in this important process for our country. Firstly, what we all need to know is that we are very much behind in terms of public investment in Belgium. Over the last 20 years, the average public investment rate in Belgium has been 2.5 %, 1% below the European average. If we walk through Belgium, drive through our streets and use our rail network, we can see that we are lagging behind compared to other countries. The European plan is therefore a first step towards moving the trend in a different direction. Today we are at about 2.6 percent of our gross domestic product in terms of public investment. The government has the target of achieving 4% by 2030, with an intermediate target of 3.5% by the end of the current legislature. To achieve that 3.5 percent, we need an additional push of €13.1 billion in public investment for all levels of public investment. So you can quickly calculate that with Europe's EUR 6 billion, we can achieve just under 50% of the route, namely EUR 6 billion compared to EUR 13.1 billion. So it is very important that all the governments of this country give an extra push or boost of investment on top of the envelope we get from Europe. For example, our Flemish colleagues have their plan for Flemish resilience for an amount of 4.3 billion euros. I read the message on Belga last night from Jan Jambon. Up to 50% of these EUR 4.3 billion will come from Europe. The extra push of EUR 2 billion will come from own resources. This is really needed to reach the target of 3.5 %. The same applies to Wallonia. At federal level, too, we have already made decisions on investment on top of the European envelope. It must always be borne in mind that when we talk about the national recovery plan - made up of European financial resources - we are talking about some of the strategic investments that will be made during the parliamentary term and some of the reforms that will be carried out. In fact, this envelope is partly integrated into some regional recovery plans. For example, as mentioned above, 50% of the Flemish plan is financed by this envelope as well as a significant part of the Walloon and Brussels plans. It all corresponds to an integrated recovery policy. We started working very quickly on the process and now, six months later, we come up with the final plan. We started in October with the architecture and the broad guidelines of the plan. In November we launched a call for projects, together with the Länder. We have always worked very openly and constructively with all the Länder. In December and January we had interesting discussions on the allocation of resources and on the selection of projects and reforms. In February and March, we had all the projects evaluated by various bodies at the federal level. It was very important to us that our project and our reforms were evaluated by external competent sources. Since last month we have been engaged in a permanent dialogue with the European Commission to ensure that we can submit our plans by the end of April. It has been a very intensive process for which we have worked with the Länder. More than 40 thematic working groups have sat together, with people from the Flemish Cabinets, Walloon Cabinets, Brussels Cabinets, Cabinets of the Fédération Wallonie-Bruxelles and Cabinets of the German-speaking Community. We had more than 15 technical sessions with the European Commission. The plans we are submitting at the end of April will therefore contain nothing new for the Commission. We discussed everything in the technical sessions and wrote everything together. Each document submitted to Europe was approved by the OCC. Together with colleagues from the Flemish, Walloon and Brussels Governments, we have worked on the text and the precise content of the plans. The next part of my presentation is about the great guidelines of our plan. We have an envelope of EUR 5.9 billion for 87 investment projects and 34 reform projects, which are structured in 17 components. The following slide gives you an idea of the structure of our plans, classified according to the five axes sustainable, digital, mobility, inclusive and productive, plus a sixth, which is technical, namely the spending reviews. I'll try to do a small deep dive in the five axes. There are many more details in the nearly 500 pages of our plans. So if you have any questions about a precise project or something else, please do not hesitate to ask us. My cabinet is prepared to answer any technical questions about the specific projects. The first priority is sustainable, - sustainable development: there are three sub-chapters, the first of which concentrates a lot of resources - almost a billion - on the energy renovation of buildings and on the reduction of our CO2 envelope by renovating public buildings and creating an incentive framework for private buildings. Emerging technologies will benefit from 600 million investments. In this respect, what is interesting is coordination at the federal level, often responsible for infrastructure. For example, the construction of the CO2 capture or Backbone Hydrogen infrastructure (pipes) falls under federal jurisdiction, while industrial applications fall under the jurisdiction of the Regions. As a result, coordination with our Walloon and Flemish friends has been necessary with regard to the strategy for emerging technologies. On the climate and the environment, there are 400 million projects. The first is the Flemish Blue Deal funded through these European plans. The second axis - digital transformation: many investments at the federal level are dedicated to cybersecurity and shared between Defence and Justice. Many projects of up to EUR 585 million will be targeted at the public administration, of which entire parts of the federal administration will be digitised, including Justice and certain social security processes, where needs are acute. The third component of this digital axis concerns the digital infrastructure (mainly otic fibre and 5G). You can be surprised at the small amount of EUR 100 million for the digital infrastructure. The reason for this is that most of these projects have been set up in partnership with private telecom operators we know. The public share comes in addition only to allow projects financed by private money. The third axis - mobility: almost 400 million are for pedestrian or bicycle infrastructure projects, whether in Wallonia (creation of bicycle corridors) or in the Brussels and Flemish regions. Through Beliris, we will benefit from federal investments in certain priority infrastructures in Brussels, particularly around the Schuman roundabout. What we take up in Model shift are mainly investments in rail for infrastructure by the Walloon Regional Transport Company in the metro networks around the major Walloon cities but above all federal investments in railway infrastructure such as developments around the port of Antwerp or around the maintenance of the network in Wallonia or accessibility in Brussels. Secondly, we have a series of measures, but also reforms on the greening of our means of transport, particularly via regional transport companies. In this presentation, you will be asked each time to look at the examples of investments and the examples of reforms. This plan is indeed a whole, which includes both elements of investment and elements of reform. On the so-called Inclusion axis, we find teaching projects called "Education 2.0", which consist essentially of introducing digital technologies into education, whether through reform projects or investment projects carried out by the different levels of competent authority, i.e. essentially the Communities (the French Community and the Dutch-speaking Community). Among these important inclusion and training projects, with a particular focus on the most vulnerable audiences, there are projects carried out by the Federal and Flanders on the fight against the digital divide, a federal project on the reintegration of ex-prisoners, a gender project also carried out by the Federal Government and a series of reforms carried out at the Flemish and Federal levels. A budget of EUR 227 million will be allocated to social infrastructure projects, including crèche or social housing projects. The last axis of the plan is important because it concentrates mainly on reforms, but also on certain projects. This is the axis we call Productive, which aims to reverse the trend of declining productivity – or rather of increasing productivity which is observed in Belgium, but which is less important than in our neighbouring countries. As a result, Belgium's productivity gap, which has been very important for a long time, has tended to shrink in recent years. We must therefore continue to invest and reform to keep this high productivity, responsible for a high level of well-being in our country. We will have projects on training in the labour market, particularly on digital skills but also on certain sectors (pharmaceuticals, biotechnology) that are areas of excellence in our country. At the same time, federal and regional reforms for support, lifelong learning and the question of training account in the federal government agreement. We will have specific support for certain parts of the activity, particularly at the level of research. Research projects will be funded to make our aviation industry, which is important, greener and to support research excellence projects such as nuclear application for medicine, particularly around the SCK CEN in Mol, as well as projects around the Wallonia diet. Then, a whole series of projects are carried out, in all regions of the country, at the level of the circular economy. If we look more broadly and look at the big aggregates, what do we see? We see that about 55% of our projects are projects with an infrastructure dimension. The Plan for Recovery and Resilience offers a unique opportunity to build the future of our country. So the plan is to a large extent about our country's infrastructure, which is a great opportunity for our construction industry to play an active role in this. Just under 30% are digital technologies, 25% are investments in the future of our human capital and the training of our employees, 16% are research and development of technologies that will be important in the future of our country, with a focus on green technologies that are important for our transition. The minimum share of green projects required by Europe is 37%. For projects with a digital tag, this is 20%. We can be very happy that we do almost 50 % more than the minimum contribution: 57 % of our projects get a green tag and 31 % of our projects get a digital tag. Our plan is greener and more digital than what was minimally requested by the European Commission. Finally, I would like to give some information on the timetable of the implementation of our plan. We all know it's a re-launch plan. We must rebuild our economy after the corona crisis, a very difficult period for our economy. We therefore need to invest quickly in order to have a maximum impact on the economy. Europe says we have to invest all the money by 2026, but we want to invest as much as possible in the short term, i.e. 2021, 2022 and 2023. The graph shows that we will invest more than 60% of the total amount in the first three years to give a maximum boost to our economy in the post-corona crisis period. The third section deals with impact assessments. As I said to you, we did not want to work only between political cabinets, even though we have mobilised more than sixty – that is, almost all of the governments of this country and whose powers were involved. We wanted to evaluate the various projects that had been submitted to us. The objective was to identify priorities on the basis of evidence, not only on the basis of subjective or political criteria. To do this, we asked several institutes to evaluate the content of the plan. The Federal Office of the Plan has been responsible for the macroeconomic impact; the Social Integration Programme, the social dimension; the Economy FPS, the digital dimension; the Gender Equality Institute; and the Federal Council for Sustainable Development, from an environmental point of view. The Planning Office has also taken an interest in the latter aspect, referring – and this is a first – to a criterion called "do no significant harm", to ensure that none of the projects included in this plan will result, from any angle whatsoever, in a negative impact on the environment. The first criterion led to a lot of ink in the newspapers last week: macroeconomic analysis. What does the Planning Office tell us? According to him, we will have an average increase of 0.21% of GDP. We can estimate that it's not much, but it's actually mechanical. Belgian GDP reached between EUR 450 billion and EUR 500 billion. Therefore, when you invest 6 billion – which is the European envelope – you invest 1.2%, to be spread over six years. This gives 0.2% of additional GDP. That is why I told you that the important thing is both this plan and ensuring that it is well built, but it is also the direction that this plan gives on a sustainable trajectory of increasing public investment in Belgium. This plan is therefore not the entire boost of public investment on which we are working. We must rejoice at what Flanders is doing, in particular, what Wallonia is going to do, going beyond these amounts to give a larger boost. What the Plan Office is also telling us is that for the first time in more than 20 years, it is a plan that focuses primarily on increasing the productivity and growth potential of our economy. However, we know that this is a very important challenge, especially in the light of new technologies and the transition. If I repeat the quote from the Plan Bureau: over the last five years, productivity growth has been zero or even negative. For the first time, measures are being taken which must have an inverse effect on productivity. What is interesting is that this effect on productivity goes up to 2040. We give a boost, but it has a persistent effect over time. The last item had not been asked of the Planning Office, because it was not one of the things that it could evaluate. This is about employment. I know it's something that's been commented on in the press. Everyone was amazed at this figure of only 3,900 jobs related to this plan. What we need to know is that the Planning Office did not assess the potential of the projects. The 3,900 jobs correspond to the jobs that will be mobilized mainly in construction for the realization of the projects. I will take a very simple example. If you build, for example, a research centre - and research centres will be funded through the recovery plan - what is quantified by the Plan Office is the masons and people who will work on the projects to build the research centre. But it is by no means the job that will be created by innovation, increased productivity and researchers who will develop projects within the research centre. The 3,900 jobs are therefore partial and only linked to the boost in the construction sector linked to the implementation of the projects. It is for this reason that there is a peak in 2023-2024, because it is at that time that we will see the maximum execution of the construction sites. If we want to calculate the impact on total employment - and we are going to ask the Planning Office - there is both this, which is minimal, impact on the construction sector for the implementation of projects. Then there is the impact of the projects, i.e. when I build training centres, when I invest in industry, etc., what will be the job? The multiplier must be calculated on the private sector. We must also calculate the international side effects, because we know that there are important multiplier effects linked to the fact that all European countries have recovery policies at the same time. This has a certain impact on Belgium, which is a small open economy. The second element is the social dimension. The SPP Social Integration provided us with a series of elements. Overall, a whole series of very important social issues in Belgium are taken into account in the plan, even though there are always elements that we can learn, and which we will use to enrich the plan. These issues include dropping out of school, access to public services, improving the housing situation, combating discrimination, and combating the digital divide. Third dimension: the impact on gender reduction. Here too, it's a first. We asked the Institute for Gender Equality to evaluate all projects and reforms against the gender equality criterion. What does this analysis tell us? It is clear that 18% of projects have a certain impact on gender equality, and 52% of projects have a potentially positive impact on gender equality. It will be necessary to be vigilant in the implementation of these projects, to ensure that this impact is realized. The remainder of the projects, i.e. 30%, have a neutral impact. There is therefore no project that will have a negative impact and that will strengthen gender inequalities, and it is important to mention this. I think here too, we can rejoice. We should be vigilant and ensure that this kind of study and analysis applies in the future when making major public policy plans. The next dimension is the environmental dimension. We've been working on buildings, transport, new technologies. Here too, we have ensured the integration of the RRP (this recovery plan) into the National Energy-Climate Plan to ensure that both are mutually reinforcing, even if they are not part of the same exercise vis-à-vis the European Commission. As for the digital impact assessment, I will make sure to send you the PowerPoint which forms a synthesis of the document you have received. Here too, we asked the SPF Economy to assess the plan against the country's digital priorities. These relate to connectivity, i.e. infrastructure, white area coverage, 5G, fibre, schools, and digital skills. We know that in view of the changes that digital will bring about in the labour market, it is important to invest in this point. The plan will also focus on digital business transformation, support for the R&D sector, innovation, and the numeration of public services. How can digital be used for the accessibility of our public services? These elements are included in the recovery plan. The fourth and final point of this presentation includes the conclusions, the points of attention and the next steps. To start me on the next steps, it remains our goal to submit the Plan for Recovery and Resilience by 30 April 2021. Over the next two weeks, we will update the plan on the basis of the feedback we receive from you and from the European Commission. The aim is therefore to have the final version by 30 April. After submitting our plan, the European Commission has two months to evaluate it. It is the Commission's objective to send a signal this summer so that the first projects of our plan can be implemented in September. It is therefore a short process and we will work with the Commission over the coming weeks and months to ensure that our plan meets the expectations of the European Commission. I come to the three points of attention. The European part of the plan is the first part needed to invest in the future of our country. To achieve the target of 3.5% of public investment by 2024, an additional 13 billion must be invested. The European Recovery Plan provides us with 6 billion, 45% of the total. I am therefore delighted when I see that the Regions go beyond what is provided for in the European Investment Plan. The announcement by the Flemish Minister-President, Jan Jambon, that 2 billion would be financed with the moneys of the Flemish Region is exactly in line with this temporality. For its part, the federal government has already committed itself to other projects financed outside the European Recovery Plan. Here I am thinking in particular of the defence project for neighbourhoods of the future in Wallonia and Flanders, the project for scanners at the port of Antwerp to combat drug trafficking and the project for the renovation of certain important federal public buildings such as the Palais de Justice in Brussels, the buildings of the 50th anniversary and certain police buildings. EUR 328 million is earmarked for these projects. The federal government has already made a budgetary commitment that goes beyond European money. In addition, it is realized that the implementation and implementation of projects will be important, beyond the current phase of drafting the Plan, with major attention to the construction sector, which I encourage you to relay. As can be seen, 55% of the projects are infrastructure projects, which implies public orders for the construction sector. If the latter is overheated or if it does not follow, there is a risk in terms of timing of the execution of the projects, but above all we will miss a very good opportunity for this sector to have a significant stimulus effect at the country level. Indeed, we know that this sector can play a role in terms of integration, socio-occupational integration and that there will be work in construction for 30 years, if we want to make all our buildings more efficient. Finally, I would like to say that we propose that this committee should monitor the implementation process. Just as we have to report to the European Commission at least once every six months – as I recall – on the implementation of the projects, we suggest that you take stock of the progress of the projects on a regular basis. If I may, Mr President, I shall end with a slightly more philosophical note which will certainly interest several of our colleagues in this House. What does this process finally say about the state of our country? What does this process say about the state of our country and about the fact that we can still work together? Over the last six months, we have worked very intensively with colleagues from all the Länder. I am very pleased that cooperation with the Länder has been very positive. A targeted cooperation, focused on our future, can be very productive. I am convinced of the possibility of a federalism of cooperation, where our different regional entities can work together, hand in hand, to build the future of this country, with fundamental issues such as the digital transition and the environmental transition. It was worth pointing out in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic441x.u7	Mr Secretary of State, I would like to thank you for this clear presentation, which summarises the broad lines of the plan, so that everyone has the essentials. Anyone who wants can consult the extensive documents.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic441x.u8	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your excellent presentation. You clearly have a background in management and managing large processes. It is reassuring that this is being addressed in a professional way and that you are clearly supported by professional support. I would like to suggest that the method of monitoring the Flemish plan, "Flemish Veerkracht," should be taken over in the long term: there it is shown with graphs in colour how many percent of a project has already been realized.The Flemish plan has apparently already started at 93 %.This is useful to quickly see where the project is on schedule or not. Maybe you should include this as best practice in project management? It is tempting to begin with your philosophical remark that you made at the end, but I will keep this for the end of my speech. We could talk for a long time about the European Relance Fund. I would just like to make a brief comment on this. There has been a whole debate on the way in which the agreements are made, whether we have been given a proportional share and so on. That debate is closed, not entirely to my satisfaction, but it is what it is. Yesterday, in a French-speaking medium, I read an article on aid measures in Greece: the country will soon receive EUR 30 billion, which is about 20% of its GDP. The Greek authorities themselves find this incomprehensible and consider the risk of abuse to be very high. You have the responsibility for the management of our resources, namely EUR 5.9 billion, of which EUR 1.2 billion are federal funds, and you should be accountable to this House. In addition, together with Minister Van Peteghem, you also have an international responsibility. You are participating in the European negotiating table in order to ensure that the means of recovery are properly used. It is also your responsibility to keep an eye on the fact that there is no abuse there and that everyone uses these resources in the most efficient way. I have built up my questions on four themes, namely transparency, timing, impact and budgetary costs. We've already talked about transparency on Twitter. It stayed with a polite exchange, but I honestly admit that the situation irritated me very much at the time. A few weeks ago there was an extensive file in l'Echo, containing a lot of information about the relay plan. Last week, we suddenly saw tweets from journalists who apparently participated in a press conference without livestream, in which you gave a lot of information, supported by a powerpoint presentation. I do not think that is normal, and certainly not for a government that is so committed to transparency and claims to respect democracy and Parliament. In this committee, too, you promised to come forward with information. Now, everything is a learning process, and I can understand that and be lenient about it, but I really hope it's the last time I have to make this point. I do think you agree with the argument that Parliament should be the first to be informed of important issues such as the European Recovery Fund. In the meantime, we have received a lot of information, including a note of 520 pages. However, we have not received a number of documents. The note refers to an Excel document that would be attached to the note, but that was not the case. The file has been accessed from the cabinet through the services. We'd love to have it. That is the second question. Thirdly, once again in the press, we read on 2 April 2021 that a new version was delivered to the European Commission. It is about an article in L'Echo, in which, for example, we discussed the Ecology section and everything that has to do with it. Sixteen technical sheets were reported, which would also be delivered to the European Commission. I do not know whether they are all in the 520-page document that we have received, or whether that is additional information. However, it seems to us desirable that these sheets should also be delivered to Parliament, if they exist, of which I am speaking, because L'Echo will certainly be well informed. Fourthly, in the context of transparency, I would like to take up the presentation you have just given, in which you gave the metafigures and the macroeconomic figures. You say that 13 billion euros of investment generates 3.5% of gross domestic product. If I look quickly at the figures of the Monitoring Committee, this shows that 3.5 percent of gross domestic product in 2024 will require an amount of EUR 18.6 billion and therefore not EUR 13 billion. So there is a delta or gap of EUR 5 billion. You may have an explanation or explanation for that difference. It's important to know that. As far as your presentation itself is concerned, it is a good idea that we should not so much add up projects but, above all, set the objectives. Where do we want to go? One of the objectives can only be measured if we have the macroeconomic impact target: EUR 13 billion or EUR 18 billion will save us a drink. One final point in the section on transparency is the following. It is very good that we are having the current discussion here in committee before the plan is submitted to the European Commission at the end of April 2021. Once in European democracy and, above all, bureaucracy...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic441x.u9	You said democracy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic441x.u10	There is a European democracy. There are even several European democracies. Once the plan ends up in the European bureaucracy, we have largely lost it. I have established this a number of times in the past. It is therefore important that a number of debates be held in advance. It's a good thing we're doing that here. Mr Secretary of State, I would like to call on you, in the context of the section on transparency, to go one step further. It's a good thing we're all coming to you today. However, it would be even better if you went to the various committees. It would be good if you would give a brief presentation on what is in it for the members in each committee involved in this relay plan. Now we are obliged to come here and ask a number of questions about Defence, the aviation sector, etc., while the specialists are present on the various committees. There are many on the Economics Committee already. In addition, there are a number of committees which are particularly subject to this plan. I recognize it because I also sit on many committees, such as Budget and Relance. They are horizontal themes. People are addressed to everything. That is how I address Mrs De Bleeker to everything. At the same time, we also know that you cannot know everything. I would therefore like to call on you to engage directly in this debate, especially in the standing committees, and preferably in all the committees involved in this plan. This way they know what it means and can also do project management. This not only ensures that Members are informed, but also that you are responding to your fellow ministers. You set up project management, but your colleagues will be very responsible for implementing it effectively. Therefore, let them be responsive. So let them record the ownership of their part of this plan. The second part is about timing. You state that the plan should be submitted by 30 April 2021. There was a meeting yesterday between the President of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, and her recovery task force. It already leaked all kinds of information about it. The purpose of that meeting was to prepare a state of affairs in the run-up to the date of 30 April, to see how far one stands, whether all the countries have delivered their sheets and whether everything will be all right. There was also an interesting passage in the text: "The commission does not seem to be a stickler for the deadline. If a plan comes in somewhat later, and it is of better quality, it will be easier, and there quicker for the plan to be approved. Let us not overstate the importance of this deadline." The date shall be nuanced within the group around the President of the European Commission. It is considered that it would be preferable to propose a better plan than a plan that respects the deadline of 30 April 2021. What will you do? Will this date remain a hard deadline for you? A lot of work has been done. There is a text of 520 pages. At the same time, I note that there is still some work to be done. I'm sure this plan isn't finished yet. Is April 30th a hard deadline for you, or not? Thirdly, the impact and then, of course, we come to the Federal Planning Bureau and to everything that has appeared in the media. Again, unfortunately first in the media. The analysis of the Federal Planning Office has not yet been made public. We understand that the committee has requested it and that a powerpoint presentation has been delivered, but not yet the note. We assume the Federal Planning Office will deliver it. Having said that, you're a bit nuanced about the results of the Federal Planning Bureau, but they're a little thin, aren't they? You focused on the labour impact and the number of new jobs: 3,900 in the top year, after which the number will be reduced again. Cumulated over the entire legislative period, about 13 000 or 14,000 jobs are created, whereas we actually need 700 000 jobs to reach an employment rate of 80% in 2030. You have given a number of explanations. You have said that the multiplier effect must be taken into account and that the international aspect must also be taken into account. The results of the Federal Planning Bureau I usually nuance fairly strongly because they work with very Keynesian models. I'm not a great Keynesianist, I admit it. The models used by the Federal Planning Bureau are specifically Keynesian and therefore have less attention to the supply effects. You come up with a plan that is Keynesian, which is judged by Keynesian models. The result should therefore be very positive, because these models are modulated. But even so, the results are actually quite thin. Isn't that what you're worried about? I'd like your opinion on that. Then there is the question of budgetary costs. You will have to forgive me, Mr President, but there is little opposition in this House. The opposition must have her say. So I would like to talk briefly about the reforms. Additional investments? Yeah, but how much do they cost? We see that the budget goes deeper and deeper in red. At the same time, the government says that there will be reforms that will save money and then that money will be used to reinvest it. Those reforms will also be necessary, because we are just a car on the international train. If the German economy is to be encouraged, we must be ready to stick to it. I also note that the Minister for Finance said very clearly in the press that the most important measures are the reforms. When I look at this plan, I read nothing new in terms of reform. There is a chapter on pensions, but that is actually a summary of the government agreement. It is easy to say: that is what will happen in September. There is a chapter on labour market policy, but that is actually still in the general principles. How exactly we should reach the target employment rate is still not in place. With this horizontal competence for the relance plan, you are jointly responsible for all your colleagues. I put the question to you because you are the one who is holding the debate with the European Commission. Once again, we read in the press that the Commission is not satisfied with the number of proposals currently in the plan. Some 50, as we read, credible reforms should be dealt with. Minister, can you give us more information on the European Commission's criticism? How exactly did the European Commission express this criticism? What else does the Commission expect to see? One final point is budgetary costs, and I have two questions. First of all, when are the pennies coming? I am sure you will say that only when the European Own Resources Decision has been adopted in all the European countries will there be some funding. By my question, however, I mean in particular whether you will certainly not wait for those European cents to take action already. For example, projects have already been launched at Flemish level, knowing well that European funds will come at some point. So the question is not to wait for that European money, but to start already. My second budgetary question concerns the forthcoming reduction exercise that you mentioned, which we have read again in the press. 130 % of projects are planned, while we knew that we only had 100 % budget, that 5.9 billion euros. There should therefore be a reduction exercise, but in fact it has already been agreed within the government not to delete that 30%, but to finance it through the regular budget. I put a question to the Secretary of State for the Budget and she confirmed it in Parliament, although she could not say exactly what the amount is. I'll make a quick calculation based on your calculation and presentation. You are talking about 5.9 billion out of a total of 13.1 billion. This means that, in order to get to the 13.1 billion, we still have to find some EUR 7 billion. You refer to the 2.1 billion of Flanders. In your powerpoint presentation, you're talking about 328 million, which already includes federal government engagements. There will still be 4.7 billion left. What part of it does the federal government plan to take over? The budget will be subject to additional burdens, or will the money be found in a different way? So how much of that 4.7 billion is still federal? I will conclude with a very short message. I greatly appreciate your philosophical-political approach when you say you believe in federalism for cooperation. I also believe in this, provided that it starts from the notion of responsibility, which I believe can certainly be successful. That's exactly what we're seeing right now. There are partners at the table who are responsive in their mission. Member States will be charged for their investments and have their own skin in the game when they invest their own resources. This gives you responsibility and that is the best guarantee of cooperation in this country. At the same time, that is what is most missing in this country. After all, policies can still be pursued on a number of issues today, without always having to bear the consequences. That's where it's wrong. So let us take the right lesson from your relaunch plan, especially giving more responsibility, especially to the Länder.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic441x.u11	Thank you, Minister, for the explanation. It was a very clear PowerPoint presentation, which has already answered some of my questions. However, I would like to make the following comments. The first draft plan involved 130 % of projects compared to the total amount. The list of projects was shortened, but the federal government would like to implement all projects, including the 30% projects not submitted to the Commission. Can you give us more details on what exactly are the projects involved? How will these projects be financed? It's not just the government that invests. Private investors are also attracted. How did you get these private investors involved? How will you convince anyone else to invest in the rescue plan? You have also given the broad lines of what has already been calculated and what the impact will be on the different factors. That's definitely useful to take. I am also glad that the gender dimension is not forgotten. It's a good thing we're gonna bet on that. We fully support the objectives set in this area. We now know the projections of the impact, but how will the impact be further monitored as the plan is implemented? How will it be adjusted if certain objectives relating to job creation, on gender, on ecology are not met? How will you keep your finger on the wrist to ensure that we see the expected impact achieved? We've already worked our asses off to respect the timing. We appreciate that, of course. However, it is not only a good plan that is needed; it must also be implemented. We note that Belgium is ambitious. We fully support what Belgium wants to achieve in the first three years, but how will you ensure that we achieve the timing? How will you, as the competent minister, ensure that the projects, involving many partners with a great deal of shared responsibility, are implemented? If you notice that certain projects are not feasible because of procedures or difficulties, which may always arise, how can they be switched off? Can new projects be submitted? Is there a spare list? How will you ensure that as much as possible is achieved and that the timing is achieved? We have received a general good PowerPoint presentation and it was intended that we should now have a general discussion on this issue. You have also expressed the commitment to reconnect six months in our committee. It is important that there is proper feedback and cooperation with Parliament. There has to be a basis for the plan. However, I remain a little hungry, because every six months I come to Parliament for a feedback, I find little. It's also about a lot of projects. If we, as Members of Parliament, wish to follow up on the substance of the matter, then we must be able to do so in greater depth and we must be able to play on the ball for a shorter time. I would therefore ask you, Mr Secretary of State, Mr President, to look for a method whereby the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs can play a shorter role and follow the plan more closely. It is very crucial that the relaunch plan succeeds and the committee members have an important role to play in its follow-up. So I'm still a little hungry about feedback. If we always have to ask parliamentary questions per project, then we will have a tsunami of questions. So perhaps a different method can be sought, so that we can make a more regular automatic return to our committee and carry out our task as a Member of Parliament to the full. Thank you in advance for your proposals and for the documents we have received, Mr Secretary of State. It was a useful PowerPoint presentation. I look forward to further cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic441x.u12	I note your question to consider the methodology, Mrs Dierick. Mr Loones pointed out that, if the plans are really specific and detailed, for example on defence and mobility, we could then consider whether the relevant ministers could explain these plans in more detail. We can talk about that. Perhaps you should take a look at this with your colleagues, Mr Secretary of State. After all, it may not make sense to always deal with all the issues in our committee. If a discussion becomes very specific, it might be more useful to organise it in the relevant committees. The Minister concerned is therefore likely to be able to explain very precisely the progress of certain projects. Let us give it some thought in committee. I also invite the government to do so so so that we can find a good methodology in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic441x.u13	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, first of all, I would like to thank you for your very comprehensive, very pedagogic presentation which shows the important work that has already been done. In fact, we sometimes tend to forget it, but it has been since October (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic441x.u14	Mrs Leoni, we can't hear you very well. If you could keep your microphone away, the sound should be better.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic441x.u15	Of course. That's it, that's it. So I was saying, Secretary of State, that PowerPoint has shown the important work that has been done since your designation last October. We sometimes tend to forget that you have had little time to carry out this Belgian Plan of Recovery and Resilience. It was necessary, first of all, to carry out an important task of coordination and consultation with the various levels of power. Important back-and-back work with the Commission also had to be done, but also selection. In fact, it has been necessary to make successive choices and to retain structural projects for our economy, for the environment, for the digital transition, for tomorrow's mobility, for training. In addition, much work has been done to transparently assess the impact of this plan on employment, the environment and equality between women and men. I must confess that I do not agree with what my colleague has said about transparency. Indeed, you have come to this Parliament to take stock of every important step in the progress of the plan, as you are still doing today on the eve of the April deadline. This is a clarification that I wanted to make, because it is clear that you have shown transparency. Our group, of course, fully adheres to the objectives you have presented: to succeed in the digital transition by leaving no one on the edge of the road – it is very important – to move towards production methods, lifestyles, ways of moving more environmentally friendly, to ensure productivity, solidarity. We share the diagnosis of challenges and strongly support these objectives. The Recovery Plan is obviously one of the major projects of this legislature. It was therefore necessary to work with conviction and energy, which you undoubtedly did. I had planned to ask many questions but your presentation was so pedagogic that you answered most of them. (....) You have shown the backlog over the years in terms of investments in Belgium. The Recovery and Resilience Plan is therefore a first step. We'll have to continue the work. We had a debate on the involvement of the insurance sector in this crisis a few weeks ago in committee. As such, the insurance sector is committed to investing in the recovery process. In concrete terms, the insurance sector is involved in funding the Transition Fund created within the Federal Participation and Investment Corporation. What can be achieved at this stage? The plan has been analysed by various bodies such as the Federal Planning Office, the National Labour Council or the Institute for Equality between Women and Men. After the analyses, will there be evaluations to quantify the impact, to see which project has created added value? Finally, Europe demands that all appropriations be committed and liquidated by 2026, which is a famous challenge. What about preparation? (...) and the execution of projects? You talked about the issue of preparing the construction sector, so that the recovery plan would have a maximum leverage effect on local employment. With this in mind, the Central Economic Council, the National Labour Council, the Federal Council for Sustainable Development have issued an own-initiative opinion on the structural reforms, which draws attention in particular to SMEs' access to public procurement. I think this is one of the elements to consider in order to maximize the multiplier effect of the recovery plan, with a maximum (...) Can you say more about it?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic441x.u16	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, first of all, once again, I would like to congratulate you on your little girl's arrival. You know that, to one day, we had a child on almost the same day. I share with you the happiness of these shorter nights. I am sorry for the dredging to go to Parliament only this afternoon. I imagine they'll all be gone, alas. Thank you also for your objectively comprehensive and rich presentation. I am going to dwell on the points that are troubling us, but this does not undermine the fact that we have a positive appreciation of many points. First, I'll go back to the history of the distribution key. She spilled a lot of ink in January. Of course, it is mainly Brussels which, in my opinion, is wronged, since of all the EUR 5.9 billion in the plan, the Brussels Region was entitled to 6.7%, or EUR 395 million. The Brussels Region is 11% of the population and 18% of GDP. These figures should, in my view, have allowed for a more generous allocation. But in addition, the Brussels Region, if only because of its important presence in the Horeca and culture of this country, could have, because of the particularly hard impact of the crisis, claimed more. I am aware that some so-called federal or Community projects have an impact on Brussels or that some projects have been withdrawn from the final draft of the European Plan (not from the federal intervention) concerning Brussels. There have been many movements in the last few months. I think it's worth getting an update from you. Do you think that the distribution key for the current list of projects for the Brussels Region is still in the same order as the key communicated a few months ago? Has it evolved and could it evolve further if the plan adopted was approved by the EU? In substance, like everyone else, I have read what has been communicated to us from the opinion of the Federal Office of the Plan and which seems to foresee a relatively small impact in absolute figures today, since, according to the Office of the Plan, "in 2022-2023, when the recovery plan reached its full capacity, our country would experience a peak with 3,900 direct jobs created." On the other hand, the impact on our GDP in volume would be at the height of + 0.21% of the recovery process. In terms of the resources invested (EUR 5.9 billion) for 3,900 jobs, the results appear disappointing. I know these are only first estimates. I know that this concerns only the direct jobs generated by the recovery plan, but objectively we lack, it seems to me, more precise estimates of the levers that we could legitimately expect from a plan of this magnitude on indirect job creation. I would like to be reassured as to how you see in volume of jobs the concrete effects over several years beyond directly created jobs. I do not have time to highlight all the good points that the recovery plan contains, but the fact that it is the subject of a gender assessment is an extremely positive aspect that I would like to welcome. I also welcome the fact that you have coordinated the Institute for Gender Equality in this process. In addition to my question on the allocation plan, my only two questions relate to the more precise and exhaustive assessments of job creation generated by this recovery plan. When are the Plan Office's first estimates of this component expected? On the gender distribution that you mentioned as an acquit, what are the direct lessons that you learn from the consultation with the Institute for Equality between Women and Men? Do you already have a more precise idea of the expected gender distribution of the 3,900 jobs?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic441x.u17	Secretary of State, I would like to thank you for your presentation. As my colleagues have pointed out, you have regularly come to committee to present us with the progress of the recovery plan, including your work in coordination with the federated entities and with the European Commission. This is what Parliament expects of a member of the government leading such a recovery plan, or at least coordinating it. So I wanted to thank you. This exercise of transparency and exchange with Parliament is somewhat repairing the poor communication last weekend. Indeed, everyone had understood, in view of this first page in L'Avenir with your photo, that 3,900 jobs would be created through this plan. And we all have in mind the National Bank of Belgium's forecasts of job losses, which, in view of the crisis of the Covid-19, could amount to 100,000 jobs. For the common of mortals, for a number of Members of whom I am, it is a strange balance! Of course, we are attentive to the key investment/employment performance. Your colleagues in the PS, during the last parliamentary term, regularly criticized the zero contribution measure, which cost almost a billion but still created more than 50,000 jobs. It is clear that we expect more detail on the job performance of this recovery plan. Ms Leoni also referred to what was expected at the local level in terms of job preservation. Indeed, we are waiting not only for jobs to be created, but also for the one that exists to be preserved. We would need more information at the level of the Reform Movement about the generation of new jobs and the preservation of existing jobs, given what hangs on our noses, the sword of Damocles raised above the Belgians' heads in terms of employment, namely a risk of 100,000 job losses. There is a weak point here today in relation to your presentation, Secretary of State. I know you're neither a medium nor a guess, but I'm still asking for an effort because the peak of 3,900 jobs by 2023-2024 is insufficient. You said it yourself. What is probably also expected of a recovery plan, because of the economic situation in which we are and the co-vid, is that it will sow the results more quickly. Will there already be positive results, positive consequences of the plan before 2023-2024? I'd like to hear more about this. No doubt you'll tell me that we can expect it, but I can't tell you that the peak of 3,900 jobs leaves us really questioning. Another aspect that I would like you to develop further is the positive impact of this recovery plan on the local economy. Sometimes I keep a slightly bitter taste in relation to the way work is dealt with in terms of recovery. We have the recovery plan. We will have the stimulus policies you will have to build with your government colleagues. But, through this recovery plan and your presentation, I do not feel or see the concrete impact - and I am referring again to Mrs Leoni - on local employment, the self-employed, the small SMEs, those who are suffering the most from the crisis today because of the closures. Mr Secretary of State, I would like to see you make more of the link between this daily reality experienced by a large part of our economic actors and this recovery plan, which sometimes appears somewhat disconnected from the daily realities of SMEs and independents, which are the most important generators of wealth and job creation in our country. It is therefore a point of exclamation addressed to you by the Reform Movement, alongside the compliments I have been able to give you on your transparency exercise and on the work you are doing in this area. It is an exclamation point, in red - it will please you - on the issues related to the creation and preservation of jobs that we are entitled to expect from a recovery plan of almost six billion euros.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic441x.u18	Mr Secretary of State, many questions have already been asked and answered. What I would like to repeat is that the calculations made by the Planning Bureau do not look very good: 3,900 jobs are very poor. You're pretty easy to wipe these calculations off the table. You say that the Planning Office does not take into account the results that will follow from the planned direct investment. But, of course, there is no certainty that these results will be effective, which remains a large variable. How are you going to ensure that they will be realised? You are probably also counting on the private sector, which you say will be sucked into, but what if that expected response is not forthcoming? Do you have a plan B to make sure that these investments get going anyway? Here I agree with Mr Ducarme when he talks about SMEs. I can perfectly imagine that a lot of SMEs are just going to become demotivated when they hear all these amounts, which relate only to public investments and which they cannot in any way take away from. It is a far-from-their-bed show and could be demotivating for the private sector. With regard to the calculations of the Planning Bureau, you also say that the results will depend on how neighbouring countries do it. If they do better, you think it would be better for us too. That is possible, but if they do it much better than we do, there is also a risk that many jobs will disappear abroad, and the impact could be negative. How are you going to control that and what are you going to do about it? You also say that every euro that the government invests will bring something for our economy. Which projects do you see exactly the greatest payback effect? And what if it didn't work out? And finally, you spoke of a first letter of EUR 770 million. If it is inside, what projects would you like to be the first to launch? I have one last question. You stated in your policy statement that you want to work very transparently. In this context, it is, of course, appropriate to first share the information with Parliament, so that we do not have to read it in all the newspapers the weekend in advance.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic441x.u19	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for the explanation. Your explanation has already provided a number of answers, but I still have a few specific questions. The second version of your proposal was submitted on 2 April. What conclusions did the discussion with the Commission lead to? What feedback have they given? What did you think of the comments you received from the Central Council for Business, the National Labour Council and the Federal Council for Sustainable Development in their joint opinion of 12 April? It is also a pity that the private sector has the feeling of being completely outside of this, although investment will certainly see through. However, the VBO argued that the private sector was not sufficiently involved. What do you think of that criticism? I heard Mr Loones say that the communities should be given responsibility. Responsibility does wonders and I am therefore happy to support it. You mentioned a large package of investments in infrastructure, and I believe that the level of effectiveness is the key to giving our country a long-term return. The responsibility for this lies with the citizens too, and I believe that we must give the inactive people a great responsibility here. The solution will not come from training alone, since there are also tasks for the low-skilled, especially in the infrastructure that is provided. This will certainly be achieved through very rapid training. However, I am in the construction sector myself and I note that a lot of people return their work after the first day because they feel that the work is not for them. They'd rather not work. It is reported that we are in third place in Europe in terms of the highest level of job vacancy. So we're basically under-activity. Everyone needs training, but we also have to make people work. We have to do all this together, the motto in my company is GPS - driven, positive and together. The federal level, the Communities and the citizens must work together to ensure that our country remains a beautiful country. We are spoiled and we must realise that we must always do something for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic441x.u20	We are, for example, through the list of questions tabled, but of course other Members can also ask to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic441x.u21	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, the very first sentence you said this morning is one of the most important sentences for me. You said that Belgium has been lagging behind in terms of public investment in recent years. The relaunch plan is indeed an important lever that we will be able to use to catch up. In the Committee on Finance we have had hearings with economists who confirm that this type of investment in infrastructure has a multiplier effect and will therefore attract additional investment, including from the private sector, to touch on the concerns of Mrs Houtmeyers and Mrs Verhelst. They also increase productivity, which you yourself referred to a few times. The plan will therefore create additional income and additional prosperity for our country. That is why I am also pleased that the government has decided to maintain the initial list of 130 % of Europe's budget and to achieve that 30% by own resources, just because of the multiplier effects and the positive impact on the return. This is not about costs, it is about investments, a discussion that we had a few weeks ago with Secretary of State De Bleeker, as Mr Loones mentioned. You also quoted the study of the Federal Planning Office which says that the job creation is limited to 3,900 people. However, you have just explained why that is. I hope that Mr Ducarme has heard the same thing. You explained that this study only takes into account the direct jobs in the projects, for example the construction workers needed to build a research centre and not the researchers who are going to work there or the additional jobs created by the multiplier effect or by the increased productivity level. Do you have an own assessment of the impact of the whole plan on employment, both directly and indirectly, possibly with details by sector and on the share of low-skilled jobs? If that assessment isn't here today, can that be taken care of? Could you ask for a study on that? Finally, an important part of the projects, more than the minimum required by Europe, are classified as green projects. Of course, we think that is very positive. Has there also been an objectiveisation and quantification of the reduction of CO2 emissions or of other climate objectives in the whole of the Recovery Plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic441x.u22	Mr Secretary of State, I must endorse Mr Loones' remark that your approach betrays your business background. I can only welcome such an approach; many politicians in Parliament can use it as an example. I was surprised, Mr Secretary of State, to learn all the content of the plan proposed today in the various media. A lot of ministers seem to be leaving out balloons before Parliament has been informed. In any case, you will regularly keep your commitment after our committee informed of the plan. After 30 April, however, we will undoubtedly clash with the bureaucracy of the European Union, which will thus have a certain grip on us. The money we will get from Europe must of course come from somewhere, otherwise it would seem too good to be true. A start has already been made to this end with the prospect of possible European taxes. When I talk about bureaucracy, I am thinking, for example, of the model by which Europe judges how green a project is, of certain audit systems, which are being forced on, of the fact that Member States will have to approve each other's plans and of the embedding in the European Semester, and we will even have to include a number of non-binding recommendations from 2019-2020. Finally, the limited parliamentary control of the plan is also important. In the end, it will not be the parliaments that will give the final consent. Mr Secretary of State, the concerns I expressed during the discussion of the policy papers remain. You rightly referred to the delay in public investment. We're only at 2.5% now. You want to raise that to 4 % and 3.5 % in the meantime. That won't be a bad thing. In any case, local authorities and communities and regions in particular have an important share of public investment compared to the very limited share of the federal government. In addition to Europe's billions of euros, there will also have to be a great deal of personal effort. I have already expressed my concern about this in the past. After all, there is high public debt and the room for manoeuvre of the government is particularly small. You are famous for having reached 57 % for Green Tagging, while the set standard was 37 %, which in my opinion was already very ambitious. So you want to submit more than what was requested. I think we should be very careful with that. With 57 % for Green Tagging and also an important share for digitisation, the existing economic fabric is, quite rightly, abandoned. Digitisation is good, just to be clear. We are very much behind in that regard. Efforts are needed. You rightly say that relance serves to rebuild the economy. That is why you want to inject two thirds of the medicine in 2021, 2022 and 2023. This is a good thing, but relance also means, above all, that we are trying to achieve long-term effects. It is often said that the energy transition is the employer of the future. That's almost become a mantra in the government. But this will also cause many jobs to disappear. But what exactly is in the balance? A lot of jobs will disappear and new jobs will be added. How do you see that? Of course, the construction sector will be given an impetus, but what does that mean in the long term? There is also very often talk about the multiplier effect. What is the scope of the multiplier effect? Can this be explained in more detail in figures? What specific effects are there in the long term? That multiplier effect can be small, but it can also be very large. So what are we talking about in concrete terms? You are talking about constructive cooperation with the various regions about the plan. We were not so happy with the distribution of the financial resources in it. In the meantime, that division has been established. The communities and regions will also give their own projects. Eventually, you collect those projects. Then it makes sense that there is not too much discussion about this. Of course, that does not mean that the country works well. Relance isn't just about public investment. There is also a need to create an investment environment that attracts companies to settle here and create jobs. Sometimes I don't see that enough when we talk about future relance. For me, it goes way beyond investment.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic441x.u23	Mr President, I am juggling between two committees. Please excuse me. Mr. Secretary of State, good morning, and delighted to meet you. This is the first time I've come to your commission. First of all, congratulations on your little girl's coming to the world. It's a gift, especially at this very hard time. I'm going over the communication aspects. Finally, it is normal for the federal Parliament to react as it does, indicating that it is the first forum in which federal government projects need to be discussed, debated, discovered, analysed and presented in every detail. But it is true that the press has largely echoed your recovery plan, and rightly so, because it is a message of hope, at least that is its purpose. It is the end of a long work with federated entities. And if I listen to what is said, it must be of high quality in the eyes of the European Commission. The quality of the plan is the priority. The main envelope of this European instrument is for ease in recovery and resilience. All these words have an exceptionally heavy weight of meaning, which I would like to paraphrase with you to convey to you the concerns that your communication has generated, and which will certainly be liquidated by the answers that you will give to the various questions posed by the speakers. In reality, the fundamental question is whether your plan will be judged by the European Commission sufficiently qualitative and therefore able to facilitate recovery and resilience. We are living in a very dark period, in which we see an impressive amount of bankruptcies, economic and societal difficulties of all kinds happening as a wall effect. It is true that we expect a lot from this plan. What worries us in the first place is that the Federal Planning Office - another "plan" - is doing an analysis in which the number of jobs that will be created is quite small, while we are going to lose a lot of jobs. We're already losing a lot, but we're still going to lose a lot. And not just paid employment. Self-employment, too. Which makes the economic fabric, "the nerves" of our country. This concern, we cannot lift it. In any case, I'm curious to know what you're going to tell us about this. Because it is not enough to say that, when we look at the total GDP and the amounts we are going to receive from Europe, finally, the percentage that has been indicated by the Plan Bureau is normal. It is not enough to say that we must also take into account the opening effects of our country, the effects of the recovery plans of neighbouring countries, and other effects that have not been taken into account. All this is very good, and I am not going to blame you for not planning the immediate or medium-term future. But it is necessary to hear this concern which deafens everywhere, and sometimes explodes, in society. Citizens want to know whether the quality of this plan will enable our country to be resilient, that is to say, to absorb the monstrous shock that it has had to deal with economically, socially, humanly and psychologically, and also to recover in a virtuous circle of an economy that is re-developing, leaving after stopping and generating well-being for the entire population. That is the fundamental node of communication, it seems to me, beyond all the figures that you can spread and on which you rely to try to generate that hope. After this day and this presentation, the course of the analysis of the European Commission and your monitoring will be fundamental elements to re-establish confidence, to show all Belgians that the quality of this plan generated by the entities of this country will be such as to heal the wounds and to re-establish the economy so that this country can recover, generating the well-being to which it is entitled. I really hope that we will all be able to work towards the realization, by 2024, of this plan so that it already shows our ability to rise up. You, as well as the government and the majority who support it, can be satisfied with the work done and see that the efforts and hopes put into this plan have been used in the most effective way possible. Every euro must be used in the most efficient way to recreate hope.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic441x.u24	First of all, I would like to congratulate the new fathers on their new addition to the family. I have a pragmatic question, Mr President. My questions are mainly about digitisation, 5G, cybersecurity and privacy. I do not know to what extent Secretary of State Dermine will be able to answer this. These issues may fit better with the powers of Secretary of State Michel and Minister De Sutter. Shall I ask my questions now or do we find out if Secretary of State Michel or Minister De Sutter could come to the committee next week?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic441x.u25	In principle, Minister De Sutter will answer oral questions next week, but I suggest you ask your questions in advance. We will see what answers Secretary of State Dermine can give and you can then submit additional questions to Secretary of State Michel or Minister De Sutter if you wish.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic441x.u26	Thank you, Mr President, I will now ask my questions and we will see. Regarding the safety of 5G, it is important that we work with reliable players in the field. Another message recently appeared that Huawei in the Netherlands is able to listen to unauthorized, uncontrolled and unlimited telephone calls. I have put questions to Minister De Sutter about this. The companies providing key hardware for the 5G infrastructure must be absolutely reliable. Resolutions on the roll-out of 5G were introduced in this committee on 14 February. 5G is an important component for our economy, but we cannot avoid the remaining questions about cybersecurity and a possible impact on public health. We need to clarify in the short term so that we can take appropriate scientific and technologically sound steps in this dossier. I'd like your opinion on this. Of course, we welcome the digitalisation of public services, but we must also be aware that not everyone is involved in the ever-increasing digitalisation of our society. Many people are not digitally skilled and will never be digitally skilled in spite of all their efforts. These "digibets" should, however, retain the possibility of accessing the same information as digital transmission by non-digital means and of using the same services. There should be no discrimination between digitally skilled and digitally unskilled people. How will you ensure that digitally less skilled people will have access to digital information and services as easily as digitally? Finally, in the recovery plan, the title is "The government as a popular target." Despite security, databases are regularly hacked by major international companies, such as Facebook recently. A strong digitalisation of the government makes this an attractive target for hackers and other cyber criminals. The public authorities have a great deal of information about the citizens. The security of this data is therefore crucial. But the Internet of Things (IoT) is also a threat to the protection of privacy in the form of all kinds of connected devices that can record a lot of citizens' data and behaviour. There must therefore be a strict legal framework within which the registration of these data is limited to what is strictly necessary and access to this limited information must also be subject to strict rules. Strict compliance with GDPR rules and monitoring of compliance with these rules should therefore be at the top of the agenda. What regulations do you think are still needed to ensure the privacy of citizens? I look forward to the answers. If the Secretary of State can't answer everything, I can understand that. I hope that this can be discussed next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic441x.u27	Mr Secretary of State, I have been very patient, but I think it was worth it, whether it is at the bottom of the case we have to deal with or at the level of everyone's expression. I feared for a time that the intervention I had planned would make me appear to be very critical, but fortunately, our friends from the MR, members of the majority, like others, pointed out that there were indeed reasons to be questioned by this final model of the recovery and resilience plan. Mr Dermine, I think what you have prepared for us is a good investment plan but a bad recovery plan. Besides, you do not hide that this is one of the major axes on which you wanted to focus. In view of the somewhat atrophied weight of the infrastructure pole in this plan, I have no doubt for a moment that infrastructure investments are essential. I am the first, for myself as Minister of Public Works, to know how critical infrastructure investments are to the competitiveness of a territory. But when we are in the process of a recovery plan, it seems to me that having such a disproportion in relation to other issues, including human capital and labour, which are just as essential as tax relief to enable businesses to grow effectively, is a cause for concern. I fully share the questions raised by several parliamentarians, including those of the majority, about the low impact of this plan, which will, however, mobilise six billion, on job creation. I remember a time not so long ago when the 100,000 jobs of Charles Michel had been mocked. I remember a time not so far away, when we laughed at the 200 000 jobs in Verhofstadt. They had been able to generate little or no progress towards its objectives, with amounts far less than the six billion offered to you by the European Union. I listened carefully in your initial presentation and looked at your PowerPoint support. I don't think I'm wrong in saying that not once, you didn't say the word resilience. Now, it's supposed to be a recovery and resilience plan. Not once, you didn't say it! And I can understand that, because when we analyze the content, nothing convinces us that resilience has been taken into account. So far, nothing seems to convince us that the reforms are really structural in scope. If that were to be the case, it would be a serious time to worry that the so-called structural reforms, which you are planning to implement with the government, would only result in an average gain of 0.14% of GDP and 3,900 direct jobs. This is the goal that we set ourselves at the level of a province, and perhaps even of some big cities, but certainly not of a country! I initially thought that there must have been a typing error and that there was a zero, or even two, if we wanted to be outrageously ambitious. That's why it's certainly a good investment plan, because you're going to be able to get a series of work done that was already in the boxes and was struggling to find their source of funding. There, there was indeed an alignment of the stars. However, I remain very sceptical that these investments have a real structural scope. Should the extension of the Charleroi metro or the Liège tram be implemented? These are probably useful investments, which can be financed by more traditional government appropriations. But what are the investments that are structurally conducive to the redeployment of our economy? This is where we went wrong in the selection made by the government: we recycled a series of projects with the impression that they would have a structural impact, whereas that is not the case. After your presentation, we still do not know what the vision of society you are planning to develop is, what is the turning point you want this country to take. I'm worried about that. You are right to point out, by highlighting this phrase from the Commissioner of the Plan, that for the first time we are going to have an increase in productivity. First of all, I find it dramatic that for several decades there has been so much pain in increasing the country's productivity, to finally rejoice that it is not simply negative. The productivity of our country would be considerably improved if we were to improve the quality of the work, reducing the burden on the shoulders of the workers, but also of the employers. Today, the three elements which have a major and dramatic handicap to economic activity are, on the one hand, an energy cost to our country, which is still important, on the other hand, the heavy tax burden on employers and workers, and, finally, the qualification of the labour force. Many business owners tell us that they are worried about not finding qualified staff at the time of recovery. This plan clearly offers little in line with these issues. There is nothing about tax reform. You will tell me that this was not eligible by the European Union under the recovery plan, and you will be right. At that time, it was essential to double these six billions with a stronger will, especially from the federal government, because it has the main fiscal levers, to be able to act on these real challenges of improving our competitiveness and productivity. For those who may have been more late at the ignition, we understood, with this crisis, that we really had to relocate to our European continent a whole series of goods, materials, supplies and productions that are currently in Asian control. I will tell you again the precise reasons – at the risk of being a little long but it is an exchange of views that seems important to me on a key issue – for which I believe that, in essence, this plan can be described as a good investment plan. It's a bit like the investment plan that Charles Michel was able to concoct at the time, with some strong axes, but it's not a recovery plan. If it is supposedly such, it is a bad recovery plan and there is a lack of resilience. As we all know, with the crisis of the Covid-19, the country is now experiencing the worst economic recession that it has been given since the end of the Second World War. It is the same everywhere else in the European Union and in the rest of the world. The covid-19 crisis caused the global economy to fall by no less than 3.5% in 2020. The shock has been such that individual countries have not been able to mitigate their impact through their exports. Import demand has also decreased completely everywhere and significantly. In the first wave, international trade was hampered by interruptions in global production chains and temporary restrictions on transport, while at the time it was already necessary to face a surge of protectionism, of which Trump was certainly the embodiment, even before the crisis of the covid-19. But while this international average is already striking in its figures, the impact on the Belgian economy has been even greater. Indeed, in 2020, the national economy contracted by no less than 6.2%. A historical retreat that must be countered as quickly as possible. We do not want our economy to guard against long-term stigma. I can only amplify the questions and doubts expressed by Mr Ducarme and Mrs Marghem. Understand that a recovery plan of $6 billion, which is expected to have a long-term impact average of 0.14% when a national regression of 6.2% has been achieved, can leave only pantois. This can, and you must hear it, Mr. Secretary of State, only generate deep doubts as to the relevance of a pact. During your introductory presentation, you took care to list all these operators from whom you asked for assessments and analyses: the SPF this, the SPF this, the Economic Council, etc. This is very good, but it is all public structures that either depend directly on the federal government or have a particular interest not to necessarily go back to it. It's always good to have done it. This documents your plan, but from there to say that it credifies it, there is probably a border that I will humbly allow myself not to cross. No objective analysis was conducted by a third party completely independent of the influence of the federal government. I'll go back to the numbers. In 2020, in Belgium, business investment decreased by 9%. While value added has declined sharply in some sectors only, the decline in investment has affected all branches of activity. It therefore does not reflect so much the direct effect of restrictive measures, but rather an effect derived from the deterioration of the demand outlook, the high level of uncertainty about the future and the weakening of business balance sheets. The decline in private consumption was somewhat less pronounced but no less remarkable. On the expenditure side, private consumption is generally the most stable component of GDP. In 2020, however, it fell by 8.6%. This is not due to the evolution of disposable income that has been at the macro-economic level – and I stress this three times – relatively well preserved. I say well on a macro scale because the micro reality for some households is obviously quite different. There has been a double effect with, on the one hand, a decline in consumer confidence and, on the other hand, successive phases of containment which have prevented free consumption on the part of our fellow citizens. One cannot therefore regret online sales when one sees how complicated it has been to have access to shops, since the summum has recently been reached with this need to make an appointment and return one by one to shops while, at the same time, one travels in crowded public transport. I would like to point out – which no one has done – that almost 21% of disposable income was saved in 2020, compared to 13% in 2019. There is therefore a sharp atypical increase in Belgian savings. The more than €20 billion of additional savings generated in 2020 could be mobilised at a later stage to finance a strong expansion of private consumption or investment. However, I have not heard anything about this creative ability, including in an inter-federal approach, to mobilize this savings. Belgians have never spared as much as they did in 2020. However, this mattress is allowed to sleep rather than to activate it for the real economy. It is in this context a bit worrying – it is an understatement – that the European Union has decided on this recovery and resilience plan. We know the objectives. So I won't call them back.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic441x.u28	Mr Prévot, I invite you to conclude.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic441x.u29	Mr President, I did not know that my speaking time was limited.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic441x.u30	You've been speaking for fifteen minutes. It must be borne in mind that committees are still to meet this afternoon.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic441x.u31	Mr President, we rarely have an opportunity to have an exchange of views on the substance of a series of dossiers. If we use the path of questions, we are also limited in time. But I'm going to try to be shorter than I thought I was and I'm going to write to the Secretary of State. Indeed, in order not to hide anything from you, I still have five pages with remarks. To reach the conclusions, I would like to know very clearly, Mr Secretary of State, what the industrial policy behind the choices you made. There is indeed an acceleration of the digital transition and the climate transition, but we do not see what is the backbone of the transformation of industrial policy in which you want this country to participate. We come back with the eternal rehabilitations of wasteland, this thing known for 15 years, especially in the south of the country. We do not really have a clear perspective, except for a result of a series of pre-existing projects, which were at risk of funding and which were quickly re-articulated facialally in a plan that allowed one or the other to enter into the boxes and into the projects. What really worries me, and I'll say it again, is that we're passing the target. Even though we need to work on resilience, there is no prospect of it. In fact, in your presentation, you made a column with examples of investments and examples of reforms, but none with elements that have a bearing on resilience. What do you think are really the truly structural reforms in this plan? Not those that your political responsibility leads you to consider as such, but those that really are. What, apart from these $5.9 billion, is the complementary leverage that the federal government wants to put on the table? I have heard that you welcome the additional resources made available by the Regions, stressing the recent announcement by Flanders. But what will the federal government itself, particularly on the tax side, do to raise wages and improve the competitiveness of businesses? It seems to me that this is an extremely important element. Mr Secretary of State, you have 10 days to formally introduce this plan to the European Union. Do you have a clear vision of the timing of the various projects you have listed? Is the implementation schedule for each of these projects clear for each entity? Or is that a matter of intent? The president invites me to be concise and to conclude. How are you going to make this plan a real plan of structural reforms that can regenerate our economy in the long term rather than a sixth investment plan that benefits from the impact of an unprecedented financial manna offered by the European Union? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic441x.u32	Mr Secretary of State, I would also like to congratulate you. It's the first time we've had a conversation here. It is not my intention to speak for a long time, but I would like to mention briefly three dossiers which I have been following for a while. The three dossiers deal with defence, asylum and migration and the aviation sector. Those are three things that are close to my heart. Honestly, I don't read much about Defense in the fat report. I think there's a part of it about cyber defense. The government has the ambition to build a cyber component alongside the land component, the medical component, the air component and the marine component. So there's going to be a fifth component. I don't think this is wise. A component brings with it a huge amount of administrative overload. I don't think Mrs. Dedonder knows what she's getting into. I don't think this will be efficient. I am in favour of more cyber defense and more investment in it, but to make it a real component, it is administratively too heavy and cumbersome. I don't think that's gonna work. I see there's been some money spent on it. If I add up everything, I get 50 million euros, but it's not very clear. There are numbers above the chips. Is that to be added or is that to be added per project? Exactly how much money is being spent on cyber-defence? Can you explain that? Those are one-time investments, one shots. That won't be for staff. Is that for purchasing the most modern servers? It is not clear from the sheets for which this is intended. Can you explain that? If you can't do that, you can do it in writing. It's important that we know this for our work on the National Defense Commission. Secondly, asylum and migration. Another nice detail about the hangars in Namur with Mr Prévot where the mouth masks were stored. Everyone knows that mask saga. They were badly stored. That was even my fault, because I had asylum seekers in those hangars. Flemish Interest then says it's my fault because I would have had those mouth masks removed there and stored in other hangars, where they got rotten and decayed and therefore had to be destroyed. After all, I would have put asylum seekers in those good hangars. That was in the Belgrade barracks. Of course, that's completely ripped off. However, I read in your recovery plan that these hangars are now going down and there will be a training centre or something. I'm still not quite sure what's coming. I think that, despite his many objections, Mr Prévot will have no problem with that. That's a good thing for a city. He may even have actively lobbied for it through his ship's college. The hangars in Namur, on which there is a kind of curse, are removed, taking into account what has gone wrong. With regard to asylum and migration, I also read that there is a very strong commitment to the VDAB and employment. I assume it's a Flemish project. That's not clear to me, but I'm guessing it is, because I don't see the Forem of Actiris listed anywhere. I have nothing against the employment of refugees or asylum seekers, but I hope that they are people who have been recognised and who are allowed to stay here legally. You probably know that of all those who applied for asylum, which were 1,800 people last month, about 70% are not recognised and should therefore actually return to the country of origin. Last month it was even 75%. We've never had so many grades. I wouldn't be spending too much money on it, given the odds that these people can't stay. I think that we should, above all, invest in the integration of the people who are allowed to stay here and not in those who are likely to be ordered to leave the territory or who will be actively repatriated. I read that the Secretary of State Mahdi has received money for his fight against fake news. I am always very critical of that. I read that the Flemish Government would also allocate funds for this. Some of them would be spent on training. Fighting fake news, however, is not a core task for the government. It is true that our young people, through education and other initiatives, should be trained to be critical citizens. That is another task for the government, but it is through education. This should be part of the education of young people. The government can't do everything. In itself, I find it interesting that there will be a website with data on migration. The more transparency, the better. However, I am looking at this with my eyes crossed, because I think that the whole picture should be displayed. We'll keep an eye on that. The Minister has been able to obtain money for this. How much is that budget? Could you explain that a little bit more? After all, that chip isn't clear. A third point concerns aviation. I see that EUR 35 million has been allocated to companies operating in the aviation sector to green the sector. My dear friend Dieter Vanbesien and I have had a resolution adopted in this House on the future of aviation in our country, both the airport and the aviation sector. One of the points in it was just that greening and making aviation sustainable. I am pleased that EUR 35 million has been allocated for this purpose. I understand that this will be done through tendering and cofinancing. There are many beautiful airlines. I don't know if you know them. You should definitely visit the beautiful companies in Wallonia, but also in Flanders we have a very thriving aviation industry. So that's what money comes for now. I conclude from this that our appeal to the government has been translated into figures through that resolution. Certainly, 35 million is not that much, but it is a good amount, especially if there is co-financing. I will continue to question you or the Minister responsible about the concrete impact. I hope, however, that it is not only intended for Walloon companies. Is this a file submitted by the Walloon Government or has it been submitted nationally? (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic441x.u33	Fine, then this will be cleared up immediately. So it'll be for everyone. The N-VA certainly supports that, so I would like to congratulate you on that. I would like some clarification on the other two issues. I had also understood from the Minister that the EUR 100 million for new barracks, including one in East Flanders, would be paid with that relay money, but that is not the case now. It has been said that we will pay through the federal budget. I don't know if you've found a tree that you can shake so that money falls out of, but I notice that there's an incredible amount of money these days. Last year we stood 42 billion in red and already 30 billion. It is Donkey you stretch, and there will only be 100 million regulars on the budget of the federal budget, because it will not come from Europe. I'm okay with that. I'm for the barracks. I will not argue against that. Investment in Defense is much needed. But sometimes I'm staring at what's possible now and not in the past. When I was Secretary of State, I had to turn every cent eighty-five times, and then I still got a no from Sophie Wilmès, as Budget Minister, saying that we wouldn't. Or the Treasury Inspector gave a negative opinion. He was an incredibly interesting man, once the chief of the cabinet of André Flahaut. Be careful, I've worked well with him, but I've been given an Jet a lot of times. I never got the money. That was incredibly frustrating. I then had to knock on Jan Jambon's door, because he had to defend my business at the core. Then I said, "Jan, I can't, I have to get hold of that." And very sometimes, once in ten or so, it worked. Then he called to say he had good news, and then I was satisfied, but mostly it was njet. I can't eat it right now. The money comes from all sides. Yesterday, I questioned Mrs. De Sutter about meal cheques for civilian personnel in the Defense Department. Everyone will receive 6 euros from the autumn onwards. I find that remarkable. It is, of course, more fun to be in a government where there is so much money going around than in a government that is trying to save and that is economical, because I can give you, always getting a no, is not funny. However, I believe that all the governments in this country should be better informed. I sometimes have the impression that the amount of money credited by the ECB is infinite.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic441x.u34	Mr Francken, I note that you are very sorry that you are not in this government, and that the previous government was apparently not such a good one.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic441x.u35	Theo, o tempora, o mores! I know that it gives a good impression when using Latin quotes. I learned that from your chairman. I'm going to give a globalizing answer. I would have liked to have had two hours to provide the answer, point by point, to all the elements mentioned. Unfortunately, in a quarter of an hour, it will be complicated. I would like to thank you, colleagues from both the majority and the opposition, for the richness of these exchanges. This subject is essential for the future of the country and I am pleased that it generates discussions as rich as these. The first point that has been mentioned by many colleagues concerns transparency. I think we have tried to demonstrate in this process, knowing that it was extremely short, a high level of transparency at three levels. Firstly, this has been done through the other governments of that country which have similar objectives, which are those set by the European Commission for access to European funds. I therefore thank all the partners. As I told you, we have worked with more than sixty firms across the country. This has been extremely rich and transparent. Each of the regional governments shared their projects with others in an attempt to achieve coherence. This coherence exercise was necessary in this country if we are to have an impact on important issues. Secondly, there has been transparency vis-à-vis various bodies of opinion, such as the social partners in the Central Economic Council, representatives of the employers' world (UNIZO, UCM, VBO), the various trade unions, the Federal Council for Sustainable Development with associations representing the environment, youth, advisory bodies, federal public services, etc. I can hear we missed important things. I can hear that there is a clear lack of independence on the part of some of the opinion bodies in order to give their opinions clear criticisms which we have not seen, but I refer to the opinions expressed, in particular, by the social partners, by various opinion bodies. I think they will be delighted to be told that they lack objectivity and work for the government. Considering that all these opinions are available online, in particular those of the social partners who welcome the approach and priorities. In fact, the government's prioritisation of projects was made in the light of these opinions. When some elements were missing, we added them on the basis of the opinions of both the trade union partners and the business world. The private sector has also been involved in the various stages of work from the beginning of the process to the final stages, and it will still be involved at the end. The third transparency requirement is for Parliament. I think we've seen each other three or four times at different important times. I regret that some elements were communicated prematurely, because it is true that several points of the plan have circulated very widely. Therefore, we have not always been as masters of timing as we would have liked to be. In any case, my office remains at your disposal. If you do not find certain opinions or appendices, do not hesitate to contact me or my collaborators. I therefore pledge to remain at your full disposal. Secondly, it is worth taking some time to answer questions from Mrs Marghem, Mr Prévot and Mr Ducrame. Is this a stimulus or investment plan? What is the difference? We face an unprecedented crisis – we join in this initial assumption. The management of the epidemic is broken down into three stages. First of all, as long as containment measures are not lifted – that is, the current period that lasts too long – the government is taking broad-based initiatives to support sectors and try to preserve the country's socio-economic engine as best it can. I am thinking of bridge law, economic unemployment, etc. There will be a second time, which will accompany the deconfinement and during which we will take measures of support. Moreover, at the time of the deconfinition, the ministers in charge – notably Mr Clarinval, of the same party as Mrs Marghem and Mr Ducrame – will continue to make such temporary arrangements to accompany the sectors most in need: Horeca, culture and events. These are sectoral measures that, unlike those taken during confinement, will be targeted. Here again, I refer you to the powers of the ministers in charge, in particular the one who – in the Federal Republic – comes from the same party as Mrs Marghem and Mr Ducrame. Then a third time will take place. He is the subject of our discussion: the time for recovery and investment to project our economy and our country into the future. I agree with Mr Prévot that the economic situation is disastrous. The previous crisis of such magnitude was the Second World War. What did we do at the end of this war? Together with our American colleagues, we set up a plan called the Marshall Plan. It was an investment plan. Recovery is investment. In the post-war period, we have built energy infrastructure, transport infrastructure, motorways, high-voltage lines and power plants that have made it possible to fuel our country in a paradigm based on fossil fuels. It worked for 50 years. Today, we are facing a catastrophic economic situation. We are therefore investing in recovery, in complementarity with support measures targeted at certain sectors, and in energy and mobility infrastructure, which will allow our country to project itself into a new paradigm, based on a labour market where people will be better qualified. It is therefore necessary to be able to accompany these training mechanisms and to continue to invest in research. People will have other forms of mobility, more environmentally friendly and based on a transport and energy infrastructure that will be in line with the new energy paradigm in which fossil fuels are less important. So there are three phases. I agree with you, it takes targeted and sectoral measures to support those who need it most at the end of the coronavirus epidemic, including small independents, events, horeca, culture. But at the same time, investment is recovery. In the past, every time our country and our continent have faced major crises, we've made it through investment. The Marshall Plan, which still marks the contours and landscape of our country today, is a major investment plan that has brought our country out of post-war socio-economic turmoil. This plan contains important elements of reform. You mentioned taxation and labour market issues, especially for younger and older people. These are elements of reform on which we have made commitments under the recovery plan. You can consult them. We are in the process of preparing these elements, whether my colleague Vincent Van Peteghem for the tax aspects or my colleague Pierre-Yves Dermagne for the labour market. As far as evaluation is concerned, yes, when asking for external opinions, we start to expose ourselves. Politically, it will have been easier, as is the case for other governments, to open their workbooks less, to ask for fewer assessments. We did it because we thought it was important and that it was a good way to design public policies. Let us turn to the specific question of 3,900 jobs. If we take that number seriously, I understand. I discover this kind of debate, so I understand that there is always a small part of interesting discussions, then a part of bad faith not wanting to read some numbers in the same way. If we were to take this figure of 3,900 jobs seriously, it would worry me if I was Sander Loones and because my party is the minister-presidency of Flanders, or if I'm the MR; it would worry me less if I'm the CDH because I'm nowhere in power... Finally, these 3,900 jobs are for the whole country. It is for means that are also used by Flanders. This would not only call into question the way in which the various federated entities use this money, since they too will have very little job creation. But basically, I think that this estimate, it is also very partial and you really must not take it for what it is. This is the impact on the construction sector of the implementation of the projects. It's like building a factory and saying how many jobs we're going to build this plant. We have a great business plan, an entrepreneur with a great project. We're gonna figure out how many jobs we're going to create this plant. There are the few dozen jobs that, for three years, will build the walls of the factory. You are going to tell me, Mr. Ducrame, Mr. Prévot, Mr. Loones, that the jobs created by the factory are the workers who are going to work in the factory. For about ten years. The creation of jobs is not the 10 masons or the 18 manoeuvrings that built the walls of the factory and installed the machines. Today, if we think that the recovery plan will create 3,900 jobs, it is exactly as if we were saying that this plant was going to create, during the time of construction - a few months or a few years at the most - a few dozen jobs in construction. No, I think that indeed - this answers a question from Mr Vanbesien - we are going to work on estimates of much finer job creation, even if it takes time. It's always based on assumptions. The boundary between what is analytically rigorous and what is futuristic fantasy is always very tenuous. These estimates of job creation will include several elements. Direct creation is the 3,900 jobs accumulated in 2026, with a peak in 2023 that corresponds to the period when there will be the most people in the construction sites. The indirect impact, i.e. the potential for job creation of projects. If I invest in research, what is the potential for innovation, the potential for increasing productivity? If I do research centres, how many young job seekers are going to pass and are going to be reintegrated into future channels around the transition? What is the impact of international multipliers linked to the fact that Belgium is a small open economy that actually benefits from the effects of other countries? And of course, what is the impact of the reforms? Because, yes, in this recovery plan, there are tax reforms. Yes, there are labour market reforms in this recovery plan. These reforms, as you have rightly said, Mr Prévot, will also have an impact on the labour market. Several issues related to the process with the Commission. Today, the feedback we have received, Mrs Verhelst, is that there are still projects on which she has technical questions. We sent you here the 500 to 600 pages of the document. But behind it, it was mentioned, there are hundreds of tables for each of the projects. And, Mr Prévot, there are indeed technical considerations for each of the projects with a deployment of the investments, phased month by month, and at what stage is the project. If we want to make infrastructure projects and succeed them quickly, five years, it is very short on the scale of an infrastructure project. I imagine you have a lot of examples in mind. These are projects for which technical analyses have already been carried out. So we have a very precise phasing plan on how the money will be spent in the coming months, the next few years. Part of the work with the Commission is therefore technical work which still needs to be done. There, we play our role as a metronome. Believe me, it's not a role that's gay every day. It is a question of ensuring that all these projects, which come from Eupen or Ghent through Antwerp and Tournai, go back and that the different governments that carry them work to have the right level of technical detail. The second element of discussion with the European Commission is the reform aspects. We have in the plan, as you have read, different aspects of reforms. The European Commission does not ask us to go into the details of the content of these reforms because it knows that it is time-consuming work. If we want to make a serious tax reform, it takes time. The Commission is asking what it calls a form of roadmap, i.e. commitments in the next three or four years and the deadline for the reform to be presented to the government for the first time. Beyond these commitments, it also calls for agreement on a range of objectives. The good news, and I am well placed to give you these answers, is that the recommendations and requests for reform made by the European Commission are based on the specific recommendations within the framework of the European Semester. I can swear to you, in any case at the federal level, for having contributed to the drafting of the government agreement, that if there is a document that is permanently next to one when drafting a government agreement, it is the Country Specific Recommendations of the European Commission. It is therefore not by chance that, in the government agreement, we commit ourselves to pension reform at the beginning of the legislature, that we commit ourselves to certain elements of tax reform, particularly on certain aspects of green taxation, because we know that these are points on which we are expected by the European Commission. We still have discussions on this with the European Commission in the coming days and weeks. There is no formal deadline ? Indeed, Mr Sander, we are so in constant contact with the European Commission that, in fact, there is no real guideline because we deliver documents every 15 days and every 15 days they come back with feedback. So we have a permanent exchange that, in my opinion, will last until the summer. Three or four plans have already been submitted to the European Commission. You keep itching with her, and so on. The goal is to be able to make a decision in the summer. Today, we know that we have caught up with the other European countries. We are in the package of countries that will be in time for the European Commission. The idea is to have transmitted everything in the summer and that the European Commission can commit itself by 31 July to obtaining pre-financing of the projects. The order of magnitude is 13% of the amounts, approximately $770 million as mentioned, to begin in the fall. Which projects will be funded first? Since operational details are available for each project, projects with the closest milestones will be funded first, knowing that, in the end, such as projects for which there are still several steps to be taken (licensing applications, etc.).), there will be no restrictions. We're not gonna have to choose which projects to finance first. I conclude my speech by addressing the issues relating to the tranches that add up in terms of investment. We know that €6 billion is not enough. We have the target of 3.5%. What does that understand? I'll try to be as pedagogic as possible. Our goal by 2024 is to achieve 3.5% investment, i.e. - and this is perhaps the difference with the Monitoring Committee - an increase, an additional amount of EUR 13.1 billion. This amount of EUR 13.1 billion is covered by the European Commission for EUR 5.9 billion. So there's $7.2 billion left. The idea of this EUR 7.2 billion - a philosophy to which everyone adheres - is that they should be made in proportion to the share of investment made by everyone in the past. The question was: how much does the federal government have to take? The federal government typically takes on average 20% of total investment in Belgium. Therefore, the federal government should make a large billion (1.3 or 1.4 billion euros) of additional investment. Today, there is a commitment for 300 million euros. Indeed, there will still be discussions within the federal government on an additional investment block. Flanders has committed to a further 2 billion euros. I think it corresponds roughly to its part. And there is also, as Mr. Van Lommel, local government investment, which in Belgium accounts for about 40% of investment. This is the first block, which concerns pure public investment. Of course, it is in its best interest to have a leverage effect on private investment. I can tell you that three blocks of private investment that are linked to public projects will materialize. First of all, we are committed to the European Recovery Plan and rely on private co-financing. For example, when my colleague Tinne Van der Straeten is building an island in the North Sea, she is building it from private investment. When we renovate buildings, it's on the basis of private co-investment. When we deploy fibre optics, we work with private telecom operators. This pillar represents a few billion more. A second lever is the investment programming of the operators – private or public – who build the networks. We know that Fluxys, Elia, Proximus, Telenet are planning such investments, the order of magnitude of which varies – according to the calculation – between 8 and 12 billion euros. They are additional in nature and are generally complementary to public investment. Secondly, we have received commitments from the SFPI in the form of transformation funds which will reach 750 million public euros, the leverage effect of which should be multiplied by two or three. Mr Prévot rightly stressed the extent of private savings. It will therefore be an opportunity to mobilise it, particularly through pension funds or the insurance sector, as my colleague mentioned. It is a steering wheel that will be used for capital investment in private companies. This finally gives us a steering wheel of public or public-private investments of between 15 and 25 billion, knowing that the evaluation is still under way. In this area, the objective is to maximize the multiplier effect on the implementation of projects. If an infrastructure project is carried out and it is a multinational company that does so with posted workers and materials coming from China, the impact on the local Belgian economy will be relatively small. A public euro or a public-private euro will have a very weak multiplier effect on the Belgian economy because the workers are not Belgian, because the materials are not Belgian and because the companies are not Belgian. On the other hand – for this reason, I have referred to the important role of the construction sector – if we work with young people in integration, with SMEs in East Flanders or the province of Liège and stimulate local material sectors, the multiplier impact will be much higher. The challenge is to say that there is a driving force for public investment on which public-private investment or private investment can be combined, knowing that execution will still generate a multiplier effect, which will have to be monitored. Mr President, I think I have gone around the matter in this way. As I said, it is rather frustrating to have to answer so succinctly on important topics. So you should never hesitate to contact me directly or contact my firm for technical questions. It will be our pleasure to respond. Mr President, allow me just one more minute to answer Mr Francken's precise question, which was put at the last minute. There is indeed a 35 million Green Aeronautics project, which is led by the Federal Science Policy to help our important industrial sector make the transition to greener technologies. There are also projects carried out by the Walloon Region, notably by Minister Borsus, on the issue of recycling in the aeronautics industry and on the construction of a hub around the recycling of aircraft and on synthetic fuel oil, in order to have less kerosene in fuel oil. There are cybersecurity projects for 78 million, digitalization projects for justice, especially in Antwerp. There are projects to combat drug trafficking for 58 million. In the area of immigration, there are 20 million projects for the digitization of a series of processes. Mr President, this is an important debate. We are in a critical period for the revival of our country. Mrs Marghem, we must not oppose the support measures to ensure that the economic engine and the measures taken for the gradual reopening of the sectors are preserved. I have every confidence in our colleagues in the government, in particular Ministers Dermagne and Clarinval, to take the right accompanying measures and to prevent whole sectors, particularly SMEs and the self-employed, from feeling abandoned during the gradual de-finishment and the exit of the generalised aid period. We must not oppose measures to support certain sectors and investment measures, which are the content of this plan, in order to rebuild our country on new bases after this crisis of the coronavirus. When our country faced such important systemic crises – and one can think of the Second World War – it succeeded in having a complementarity between two approaches: sector support measures and investment measures that enable the country to be rebuilt on new bases to deal with important structural issues. I believe that the important structural stakes of our generation are related to the transition to a more environmentally friendly economy, the digital transition and the preservation of what makes the Belgian model the strength, that is, a strong social inclusion and a very important productivity that enable us to be competitive. It is by maintaining this competitive productivity and strong economy that we can sustain demand for the various sectors that depend on the economy, including Horeca, SMEs and the self-employed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic441x.u36	Colleagues, the Secretary of State has promised that we can request additional information and documents. The questions submitted have been answered, but if not all the additional questions have been dealt with, you can again submit oral or written questions. We will then organise a new questioning session in the relatively short term.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic441x.u37	I assume that a working method is being considered to involve other committees. Mr Secretary of State, I am also pleased that we can contact your cabinet directly. That is a nice way of working, but I should also like to warn against this, because proven processes have their added value. When we discuss matters here, they come in a report and other people can also take note of them. That is the point I wanted to make about transparency. I would like to deal with a few more points. You are pleased to see how a technical discussion can be conducted politically. We have also noted that we have received a very technical presentation here, but your reply was much more political in nature. It was a lot less technical and I understand that. If you get comments from a number of Walloon politicians, even from the majority, then you also want to do politics in your French-speaking democracy. However, I would like to call on you to pay sufficient attention to the technicality of the dossier, and I shall try to do so myself. As far as transparency is concerned, you literally regret that information is first published in the newspaper. However, if you give a press conference, that information will of course be published in the newspaper. Moreover, if you give that press conference before you come to Parliament, that information will be published in the newspaper first. You say that you are very transparent in your contacts with civil society and that you have gained support there. I think it is wonderful when that happens, but of course that is not what transparency is about. Your first union is that of the people, that of Parliament, that of us. It is good that you are seeking support, but Parliament must be your first and privileged partner in this respect. In addition, you replicated that there are important reforms and commitments in the plan: Yes, there are tax reforms in this plan. There are reforms in the labour market. But those reforms are not in the plan. On the contrary, it excels in vagueness in the areas of fiscal reform and labour market reforms. I would also like to call on us to limit ourselves to the technicality of the dossier and simply to acknowledge that there is still work to be done, which will have to be carried out by the ministers. Let us at least be honest about what has already been achieved and what is to come. Let us not create an atmosphere as if things were already in the plan, when that is not the case. About the number of jobs I especially accept your commitment at the invitation of Dieter Vanbesien, to come out with their own figures. I understand your nuance that we should not only look at the factory being built, but also at what happens to the factory afterwards. However, you will undoubtedly agree with us that you are jumping with that nuance but not the whole distance. We talked about cumulative 13,000 jobs for the current legislature. You need 700,000 now. So something's wrong. We all feel that. I look forward to your more refined figures, which you have just announced. At some point in the start you indicated that the government would get the first disk of resources somewhere in the summer of 2021. A number of projects could then be launched in September 2021. I really and sincerely call once again not to wait for that and to pre-finance and start projects with own budgets where possible. As soon as European funding arrives, a liquidation can be done. This is somewhat the Flemish approach, which is already starting now, to take a head start. Finally, on the budget, there was a very interesting passage in which you mentioned EUR 6 billion, EUR 13.1 billion and EUR 7 billion in investment. You referred to the EUR 2.1 billion of Flanders, which is about the budget part that Flanders needs to do extra. You amount to EUR 5 billion, of which approximately EUR 1.4 billion is to be provided by the federal government. I would like to point out that I have read 328 million euros in the plan and in your PowerPoint presentation commitments. So there is EUR 1 billion left over which we do not have any clarity as to how that amount will be filled in, let alone knowing how it will be financed. Here, however, heavy commitments are being made, amounting to EUR 1 billion in federal investment, which must come and be financed at some point in time. On that point too, I hope that this will be completed with sufficient seriousness. I will conclude with your comment on the parts and the figures. When I put it all together, I come to a share of EUR 3 billion at EUR 7 billion, which is apparently expected to be filled in by the Walloon Government, the French Community Government, the Brussels Regional Government and the German Community with additional projects, which they will subscribe to their own budget. That's huge, too. I hope that will be well-spoken with the Länder, so that everyone will take up their commitment. Flanders already does that for 2 billion. You said yourself that that pretty much corresponds to the part it's supposed to do. This place is magical with huge amounts of money. It's also about huge amounts of money. So it's not a reproach. I understand that. But let us not underestimate its seriousness. It is not because it is difficult to understand in the street the difference between 1 million and 1 billion, which, let us be honest, is often the case, that we should not make that nuance here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic441x.u38	I'm still hungry. I am also truly convinced that the relic is really about people, not just about money and reform. I have only given one practical example and I will repeat it because I want an answer to that. I understand that there is a need for heavy investment in infrastructure. I think that's fantastic. It may be about catching up, but we also need to move forward for the future. It must not just be a catch-up manoeuvre; we must also move on. But how will we mobilise our people? We have high unemployment, we have many inactive people. How will we achieve this? It's the key to the entire Relance Plan. Only money doesn't work. As a manager, we can do so much with our money, if people do not want to cooperate, we will not get there. Now it is said that we must get our domestic workers to work. But how do we get them to work? Training is not enough; I have seen many examples of this. We must realise that less tax burden on labour for workers and employers and flexibility of work, as in the Netherlands, are the only solutions. Minister of Work Dermagne needs to investigate how to get people to work, because I think that is the most important key to the entire Relance Plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic441x.u39	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for giving us the first respite of your recovery plan. These springs should be reviewed together at a time when we will have more refined figures. This will allow us to see the exercise in the dynamics of the flow of time. This is very important. In addition to the opinion to be given by the European Commission, which I hope you will share widely with us, there will be a monitoring of this recovery plan. This plan is very rich and covers a lot of very interesting aspects. Having made the observation, in my first speech, of a very difficult situation for our country, and having expressed my questions about this situation and the means of getting out of it in the context of your presentation and your plan, I also see all the exciting, optimistic and proactive aspect that we can develop together. I hope you will now consider Parliament to be a partner in this work, a partner that will allow you to have a 360-degree vision of Belgian society. I also hope that we will be able to see together the merits of this plan and the benefits that we can derive from it for our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic441x.u40	If there are no more questions, we can close the committee here. I thank the Secretary of State for the explanations and the answers to all the questions. I would also like to thank my fellow Members for the interesting debate. I'm sorry I'm trying to keep an eye on time, but this afternoon we're going to have a hearing with about a dozen people. The services should also be able to complete and start up again later. We try to organize questioning sessions regularly, and we will continue to do so. I also commit myself, in consultation with the Secretary of State, to consider how the work can be divided between committees if colleagues wish to go into more detail on certain aspects. Colleagues are certainly prepared to go into these aspects in greater depth in their committee. We can, of course, continue to follow up the general debate and the overall overview in this committee.
