ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic599x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, we are starting our work with this first topical debate. As a modus operandi, we suggest that those who have more than two questions sum it up and come to their questions as quickly as possible, so as not to be too long. We ask members who have several questions to do so within five minutes, if possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic599x.u2	Madam Minister, I have tabled several questions on the increase in the energy bill, which has been the subject of a lot of discussions and questions. Fortunately, the federal government has already launched a number of measures rather quickly. In the short term, this will be the extension of the social tariff and the allocation of an additional EUR 80 for this vulnerable target group. It has also announced structural measures, such as the transformation of the federal contribution to an excise duty, which is much more adjustable, and to our satisfaction the introduction of the energy standard that CD&V has been calling for for for a long time. I think it is important to intervene in the short and long term. A lot of decisions have been made. When will they be effective and what will be the effects on the energy bill?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic599x.u3	There was a regular reference to the energy standard in plenary last week. I would have liked to go into it a little more deeply today in order to get a state of affairs. Earlier this year, in February and March, the Minister had talks with trade unions, the business community and the consumer association. At the end of April there was the opinion of the CREG Advisory Council. The Minister has always stressed that the energy standard should be applied to each type of consumption. In September last month, therefore, an inter-kabinets working group should have clarified a number of issues. That is why I would have liked to know whether a proposal has been made, what came out of the bus, what the framework will be and when it will enter into force.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic599x.u4	Madam President, Minister, we are talking about rising energy and fuel prices. Last week we discussed for a long time what I will call your 'energy package'. There are three measures: an extension of the social tariff until early April 2022, a EUR 80 reduction for those entitled to that social tariff, and the introduction of an energy standard, transforming federal taxes into a flexible excise duty. For this energy standard, you want to grant exemptions to different target groups in order to safeguard the purchasing power of families and the competitiveness of companies. This does not prevent energy prices from continuing to rise, and so does the social tariff. For an average family, this increase is already on average more than 300 euros compared to the beginning of this year. At the same time, fuel prices at the pump continue to rise. Diesel has never been this expensive before. This is not compensated in the energy package; diesel is therefore not in the health index. For the time being, no measures have been announced for fuel oil, while a significant proportion of the population in Wallonia still heats more than half of their families with fuel oil. What do you want to do against rising fuel prices? How do you protect families that heat with fuel oil? What will you do if the social rate continues to rise? Is the energy standard also applicable to fuel oil or fuel? The increase in energy and fuel prices is not caused by the federal tax or excise duty, but by the increasingly expensive energy component. Will you also take measures to reduce the increase in this energy component?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic599x.u5	Question No. 55021871C by Mr. Hedebouw was withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic599x.u6	Madam President, Madam Minister, last Wednesday, 13 October, the European Commission published a Tackling energy prices: a toolbox for action and support, which proposes an analysis of the current and future situation with regard to energy prices and some of its social impacts.This communication mentions a series of measures to be discussed and implemented within the Union. I will mention in particular the revision of the Regulation on security of gas supply scheduled for December 2021 in order to strengthen the resilience of the European gas market; but also the set of measures envisaged in support of more sustainable economic activities in the energy sector and energy storage (development of evolutionary energy storage as a tool for flexibility and voluntary joint purchases of reserves, in particular). Madam Minister, what is your view on the European Commission's communication and, in particular, on the analysis it proposes? Can we also obtain further information on the measures I have just mentioned and, in particular, on the timetable set by the European Commission on this subject? Could we simply have a return from you on these various measures?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic599x.u7	Madam Minister, several elements of my questions have already been addressed in recent weeks, especially the concept of flexible excise duty or the way in which the energy standard will take shape. A number of steps have already been taken within the government which have fueled the discussion, but which have not yet led to a final result. In other words, proposals have been put on the table which we do not know immediately, but which have been widely explained in the press. I consider some important aspects of my question, first of all the social tariff. In my view, it is a wrong choice to use the social tariff alone. We are all aware of the figures provided by the CREG in the progress reports. Around 18% of people can rely on the social rate, which means that 82% cannot. There's nothing planned for that big percentage. The government is making adjustments with a flexible excise duty, but today it is not entirely clear how that will proceed. We are still waiting for the lyrics on that. An important question in this context is how you will deal with the advance invoices. That element is reflected in my question and I asked it in plenary last week. However, that question was snowed under in the global debate at the time. If charges and surcharges are converted into flexible excise duties, how will they be passed on in advance invoices? Will you require an adjustment of the advance invoices, or will it remain a prohibition to adjust the advance invoices without the agreement of the customer? The press has indicated that there is a list of 25 proposals on the energy bill, which has been discussed within the government. So I can only assume that this is a public document and that you can and will deliver it to our committee. I'd like to get some more information on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic599x.u8	Madam Minister, during an interview in De Tijd in June, you indicated, in addition to what was mentioned in the press in the meantime, that you were working on an energy standard for companies that would guarantee competitiveness by aligning itself with price developments in neighbouring countries. For families, the coalition agreement provides, for example, that the extra costs of the CRM mechanism will be offset by the removal of other taxes from the energy bill. The essence of the case is to try to understand – this has also been pointed out by Mr Wollants – how technically and exactly you will imagine the energy standard and the presence of excise duty or the transformation of certain lines of the consumer's bill into excise duty. What does this energy standard actually contain? What will it represent in absolute terms in excise duties, i.e. in absolute figures on the invoice? How much will the average federal share of the electricity bill amount to once this operation is completed? How much will this cost the state budget and what will the difference be, hopefully, less in the consumer's bill compared to the current situation? As far as the social rate is concerned, you have talked a lot about it. The government has taken decisions, but I would like to know, beyond the cliquet which is conceived in connection with these excise duties, what you intend to do in addition for the middle class which does not have access to the social tariff, knowing that it is added for those who benefit from a surplus of 80 euros (20% of the Belgian population) in order to help them in the current crisis of the upsurge in energy prices.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic599x.u9	Madam President, members of the committee, rising energy prices remain a concern. We will continue to monitor this closely and this will undoubtedly be discussed after today when we discuss the policy paper and the programme law, which will include everything related to the energy standard. The energy bill consists of several components, with on the one hand the energy components and on the other hand the regional levies and distribution rates, and as the smallest part the federal charges and the transmission and transport charges, above which VAT is added. It is the energy component that has increased considerably in recent months, which means that the winter for many Belgian families will now fall even more financially than usual. It is therefore also the federal government's decision to allow nearly 1 million households until the end of March to pay the social tariff for gas and electricity, with the government taking charge of the supply costs. These costs amount to EUR 340 million in 2022 for all classical social tariff customers and EUR 208 million for the enlargement group which still benefits from a social tariff in the first quarter. These additional costs will not be passed on to the other users. For that there is the energy standard that we have discussed extensively on Thursday and which I shall come back to in a moment. For all protected customers there is also a winter discount from the federal government amounting to 80 euros per family. From April, half of these customers, the expansion group, will be phased out of the social tariff because we expect prices to fall and stabilise. At least those are the prospects. As I said on Thursday, a phasing-out means that we may be working with an intermediate rate. We are currently looking at how we will implement that. Most of the questions are about the energy component, for which we implement the energy standard for all Belgian users. I repeat what I said on Thursday. The energy package we agreed on in the budget is targeted and structural. I would also like to make the link with the European toolbox, to which Mr. Ben Achour's reference. A very interesting article has just been published by ACER, the European regulator. There are also questions, later in the debate, on this subject. ACER analyses the European toolbox and makes similar recommendations, namely to take targeted measures towards the most vulnerable consumers and more structural measures, as well as to act on the tax aspect and contributions on the invoice. ACER also indicates that it is the portion of the invoice that weighs the most. With regard to energy standards, the energy standard is an instrument on which my cabinet has been working since April in collaboration with Minister M. Van Peteghem, who will protect the federal share of the electricity and gas bill from 1 January 2022. Mr Van Lommel, I have repeated the timing here several times. We have been working on proposals that could be presented in the IKWs. In fact, that happened earlier than we had estimated. These proposals now go to the government under the Programme Act. We will then submit it to Parliament, probably in November, so that it can be put to the vote before the end of the year and implemented from 1 January 2022. I will repeat here the explanation I gave last week. First, the energy standard focuses on existing federal loads on electricity and gas. In doing so, the federal contribution for gas, the contribution for electricity, but also the OSP (public service obligations) and the OSP-CRM will be removed in the legislation. The annual variable contribution will therefore disappear to be replaced by a fixed contribution via a special tax on electricity and gas. Excise rates are set by law and will reflect the level of overloads in 2021. Indeed, we decided together, more than a year ago, that 2021 would be the reference year in terms of federal share on the invoice. The degressive remission that previously existed will now result in a degressive excise duty. A large consumer will therefore pay less per MWh for its highest consumption bands than for its lowest segment with a fluctuation of EUR 14.21 per MWh at EUR 0.5 per MWh. In addition to the different consumption bands, a distinction is also made according to the type of consumer. Non-professional consumers are subject to a slightly lower rate of excise duty in order to compensate for the different application of VAT. It was also important to take that into account. Today there is no application of VAT to the federal contributions. Therefore, the rate for non-business customers is kept lower, so that there is no difference on the invoice for these residential consumers as well. This is a measure, Mrs Marghem, for the middle class. In this way, the rate could be set at the level of federal levies in 2021. The excise duty is designed with a total neutrality of the invoice for the different consumption profiles which the FORBEG study reports annually. Of course, the expenditure to be financed by excise revenue will still fluctuate annually. However, the increase in expenditure is taken up year by year by the budget and no longer by the invoice of Belgian consumers. That question has been asked repeatedly in Parliament. The removal of the federal taxes in the Electricity and Gas Act and the increase in the rates of special excise duties on gas and electricity are included in this year's programme law. The work in the IKW on this is now in the final phase. This involves the areas of competence of Minister of Finance Van Peteghem and myself. The changes will be reflected in the excise duty law, which is the programme law of 2004, I say by heart, and in the gas law and in the electricity law, in relation to the public service obligations. We must clean up the lasagna in connection with the invoice, which is entered in it. The new regime will be implemented from 1 January 2022. The cost of the invoice support measure for all consumers is EUR 103 million in 2022. This amount is intended, as we discussed last Thursday, to reduce the following deficits: firstly, the increased costs of offshore wind farms, which in 2022 will recover their deficits that occurred during the corona crisis, and secondly, the increased costs of social tariffs. It concerns net additional costs for consumers' electricity bills of EUR 51 million. The gas bill would normally be charged an increase in social tariff costs of EUR 52 million, which is also covered by the federal budget as a result of the change to excise duties. Step 2 of the energy standard is then the protection of the competitiveness of businesses and the purchasing power of families. The change to excise duties creates an instrument that can be used smartly to compensate for disadvantages to purchasing power and competitiveness. To this end, the law on various provisions provides for an annual adjustment of competitiveness and purchasing power. An annual study will be commissioned by FORBEG, with publication not later than 15 May. It measures and sells all cost components for all different consumers vis-à-vis abroad. There will also be a KB that sets a benchmark for different users, energy carriers and components. The final step is that by 1 July at the latest, the CREG has completed a report which, on the basis of the results of the FORBEG study, identifies whether the benchmark is exceeded and, if so, proposes measures to compensate for the competitiveness of businesses and the purchasing power of families, in so far as this falls within the competence of the federal government. The study carried out by FORBEG in May 2021 concludes that an energy standard has long been needed. The Belgian industry has been demanding this standard for a long time. It was an assignment in the coalition agreement to develop that standard at the same time for the families. That is why we did not wait until 1 July to take action. In this way, we retain the existing exemptions for certain energy-intensive companies and for vulnerable families when switching to excise duties, which are included in the 2004 Programme Act. The net cost to the public authorities for granting these exemptions is EUR 53 million per year, half of which are reduced by a full exemption from excise duty for vulnerable families and half by an exemption from business process consumption. Together with the EUR 51 million in electricity compensation and the EUR 52 million in gas compensation, this amounts to a cost of EUR 156 million for the energy standard in 2022. Excuse me, I know I'm over my speaking time, but these are fairly broad questions. I haven't answered all the questions yet, but I'm almost done. So we can speak of an extensive federal energy standard from 2022. There are many different versions of notes circulating in the context of the budgetary negotiations. Policy is about what has been decided and we have already had the pleasure of debating it for three hours in plenary, now in this committee and then in subsequent committee meetings. We have made choices in that regard that challenge the opposition. It is, of course, the essence of parliamentary work. Fortunately, we started the budgetary negotiations well prepared and can conclude that the government is opting for a structural approach that particularly supports those who need it most. A policy preparation document of 15, 25 or 30 pages cannot add anything to that. I'm being questioned about government policy and not about statements in the press. It is not my job to answer here in committee about statements made in the press. I share the analysis of the energy market. A strong commitment to renewable and sustainable sources of energy is recommended. With regard to short-term measures, Belgium fully supports the Commission's proposals. I can see that the measures taken can have an impact in the medium term. On the question of adjusting advances, I can tell you that we will perhaps come to Parliament with legislation on advances in the various provisions of the law. This regulation takes back what already exists in the consumer agreement today. I have always had a conversation with suppliers, especially in the context of increasing social tariffs, to keep their advances balanced. The federal aspect or share on the invoice is 5%. If the other governments in this country also take measures to reduce the invoice at the same time, I will continue to talk to the suppliers, so that the advances are at all times in line with what is expected on the final invoice. In other words, the suppliers are themselves asking parties for this, because their customers are asking parties. There will be further questions about Mega later at the current committee meeting. If there are suppliers who are going to take the edge off in that respect, we will take action against it. Mr Warmoes, for the fuel oil customers, I refer to the Social Fuel Oil Fund, which exists today and to which customers can appeal. Mrs. Marghem, you had a question about the middle class. Firstly, the energy standard applies to everyone and stabilises the bill in the area of federal taxes and charges. Secondly, the whole of the budget contains a set of purchasing power measures, which are also targeted specifically at the middle class. I am thinking of the reduction in charges and the increased deduction for childcare costs. Of course, we cannot solve everything through the energy bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic599x.u10	Madam Minister, thank you for the comprehensive answer. You have indeed said a number of things in plenary on Thursday, but it is good to repeat them here so that everyone knows what they are talking about. I think the federal government has shown that she's very decisive. Measures have been taken for the weakest people. It was really necessary to protect them and so there was a very quick response. There must of course also be restructuring for all people. As you yourself say, the energy standard is very suitable for both families and businesses. This is certainly a good measure for the middle class too. CD&V is very satisfied that this is being introduced and above all that it is going quite quickly. You have indicated the timing and, if I understand correctly, we will be getting the texts through the programme law this year. Then this can be introduced quickly. I think this will be a very good measure. The other measures also respond to the resolution calling for the federal share not to increase. We look forward to the texts you will be submitting so that we can discuss and approve them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic599x.u11	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I did not go into the measures that were discussed in detail in plenary last week, so I was particularly concerned about the energy standard. I understand that we can expect an initiative on the subject in November and that it is expected to be voted on so that this energy standard can enter into force around 1 January 2022.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic599x.u12	Madam Secretary, thank you for your comprehensive and interesting explanation. We are, of course, looking forward to the program law. I have had very few answers to the questions I have asked you. The question about the fuel oil fund has been solved with one sentence. Of course, I knew that there was a social fund for fuel oil, but it is clear that the current situation requires additional measures. There are hundreds of thousands and probably more than a million families who need to use them to warm up, especially in rural areas. Secondly, you did not say anything about fuel. That doesn't surprise me, because you're not taking any action on that. Again, the diesel price swings out, just like the petrol price. This is a huge cost for commuters, for example, which is not included in the health index and is therefore not compensated. That increase therefore takes a huge bite out of their purchasing power. One can of course say that they should use public transport, but it is not that simple. Public transport is what it is, and with the 250 million your government is going to invest, we won't get there. Infrabel is already suffering from a large staff shortage. Thirdly, I have questioned you a few times about the social rate. This rate has already increased by EUR 300 and will increase further. The EUR 80 you are opposed to is totally inadequate. That brings me to the next point. In the Netherlands, the outgoing government has announced that it will compensate 400 euros per family. This has a cost of 3.2 billion, including 2.7 billion for families and 500 million for SMEs. That's a lot more ambitious than what you're doing. Finally, you say that you agree with the measures taken by the European Commission, but the suggestion to reduce VAT does not include you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic599x.u13	Madam Chair, I thank the Minister for her answers. I draw from this the Government's willingness to consider it necessary to implement the measures proposed and discussed at length last week and, beyond that, to remain open to other measures if the situation so requires. I'm glad. Minister, I fully support you in your willingness to keep your eyes and ears wide open on other types of measures that may be necessary if the current situation persists or even worsens.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic599x.u14	Madam Secretary, I have a number of comments to make. First of all, I understand we're not getting the 25-page note. Apparently, there are a number of things in there that are not intended for Parliament. However, it is always interesting to know which options are all considered when a decision is taken, rather than just being informed of the decision itself. I understand that you prefer to keep these matters outside Parliament. Secondly, you almost missed it. You almost said earlier that you are acting for vulnerable consumers, but you are, of course, only acting for the most vulnerable consumers. That is a world of difference and important to take into account in this debate. Thirdly, when it comes to the 156 million euros you are using for the purposes of the middle class energy bill that you have identified as the most important measure for that target group, we have to establish, based on the explanation you gave in the plenum, that 103 million euros are being used to prevent increases, and that the remaining 26 million euros are being used to reduce the invoice of the families. That's how I understood it. EUR 26 million divided into 5 million families, amounts to just under half a euro per month. The question is whether this is proportionate to what you should actually do and what we are waiting for. Finally, I would like to comment on the advance invoices. The whole idea of the cliquet system put forward by the government was just to ensure that, at high energy prices, excise duty could be reduced and a little increased at low energy prices. In this way, the impact on consumers remains limited. From your point of view, I understand that you do not want to oblige anyone to change the advance invoice. This is also logical: adjusting the advance bill of 5 million families is likely to result in additional costs in themselves. However, it leads to the idea of a cliquet system being somewhat an empty box. It's more of a marketing talk than it makes a difference on the invoices. First of all, we want to see how you want to incorporate all this into the texts. I fear that what was originally announced by Minister Van Peteghem as a very major reform at the end of the journey on the invoices will not make so much difference. This also explains why 156 million has been entered in the budget, but only 60 million of which will be left in two years' time. I am afraid that you were expected to do more about the invoice, but that will not be for this exercise.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic599x.u15	Madam Minister, thank you for the additional information you gave us following the exchange that took place in plenary last week. However, I do not yet see very clearly the mechanism in all its details. I understand that the entire federal share, which exceeds 5%, contrary to what you said in a previous interview, will become an excise vehicle to which we can combine a ratchet module that will make it possible to change the weight of the bill momentarily for consumers of different types. However, the burden on the budget, which you have estimated at 103 million in 2022, I would like us to be able to dissect it to know how it is constituted. I hope that when you present your text, we will have the opportunity to see exactly how money transfers are made from the consumer's bill to the budget. The budget can grow and, at some point, become unmanageable and transform a tax - which we will give on the one hand, we will take back on the other. He can also ask questions about state aid since, through this budgetary burden and the excise system - although I know particularly well that this does not correspond to State aid stricto sensu - there is still aid that is being provided. It must be so so that our companies do not find themselves in a situation of distortion of competition vis-à-vis neighbouring companies. There, I really ask myself how you react and what is the instrument, in addition to benchmarking, that allows you to avoid this criticism?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic599x.u16	There's still a request for Mr. Leysen's intervention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic599x.u17	I would like to add that Open Vld has long advocated the introduction of the energy standard. That was already in the previous board agreement with the N-VA. We are very pleased because, together with the reform of federal excise duties, the energy standard is the most important reform of the last ten years and also a response to the criticism from the European Commission that the current support for offshore wind farms and in particular the degressivity for large industrial consumers is not in line with the state aid rules. I think we will respond to that. There are measures for the middle class and for the lower incomes. I'm glad you made this a priority. You have our full support for this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic599x.u18	Madam Minister, we have recently learned that the CREG is in favour of a two-way support system for offshore wind energy. There is currently one country that no longer provides any support, and that is the Netherlands, but it is clear that the CREG does not believe in that system. The government has decided to raise the capacity target for offshore wind energy in the second zone. For example, one could go up to 5.8 GW throughout the North Sea. In the past, in March 2021, I think I have already asked you about this scenario because it requires very good planning and coordination with the other functions of the North Sea. In addition, the optimal density of the zone has been discussed several times. Due to the so-called wake effect, the yield of the mills could be lower if the density is too high. The CREG study warned in some sense about increasing density, but it is not so easy to read a sentence in which four times a word has been deleted and replaced with the word 'confidential'. If I read it correctly, the adjustment you are making will increase density to more than 12 MW/km2, which is more than double the optimum density indicated by the CREG itself for 15 MW windmills, namely 5,06 MW. It is also good to check how the systems we have worked out in the past have worked out. Over the years, we've seen four different ones that are all active now, ranging from a fixed support to a support linking to electricity prices. To this end, the CREG normally also publishes the minimum prices of green electricity certificates, although it seems that no publications are currently being published. In any case, the last publication dates back a long time ago. I have some questions about this. Is it effective your intention to opt for that two-sided contract, the contract for difference? In what way do you deal with the density in this story? There is the CREG warning, but at the same time the link is also made with the cost of the power and therefore also with the question of what support would still be needed. So what's the effect of all this on the LCOE? Which production will you take into account in view of that vigil effect by opting for a greater density? Finally, how will the various functions in the North Sea be taken into account, given the explicit warning given by the offshore wind sector itself during the recent EnergyVille webinar? I will conclude with a question about the last piece, in particular whether it is indeed true that there will be no more publications of the minimum values of green electricity certificates at the moment? Or do you have another explanation for that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic599x.u19	The CREG does indeed propose to work with a contract for difference for offshore investments in the Princess Elizabeth Zone. That would actually mean that wind farms could receive aid if the electricity price falls below an agreed threshold, but also vice versa, that investors would have to compensate the government if the price exceeds a certain threshold. This means that investors should offer in advance at a minimum and maximum threshold they think they need. The investor with the lowest figures would then win that concession. Those exact criteria for that auction still need to be determined, but the CREG wants that threshold to be set sufficiently high. What is your response to the CREG's vision and proposals? They had not been published until recently. Last November, the European Commission proposed and explained its offshore strategy. How do the CREG proposals fit into that? Has there been a number of legislative proposals from the European Commission on this subject in Belgium in recent months? What is the state of play on the preparatory studies of the Princess Elisabeth Zone?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic599x.u20	Minister, on October 15, we learned of the Council of Ministers' approval of the project to increase the capacity of offshore wind farms. This will therefore be increased from 2.2 GW in the first zone to 5.8 GW, a figure representing a quarter of total electricity production, which is considerable. I have a series of questions about this decision. Could we be informed of the timing of this project? By what time frame can we hope that the capacity of offshore wind farms will actually be increased to 5.8 GW? Can we get information about the state of the offshore electricity supply network? Will the project in question require adaptation of the network? Have any contacts ever been made with your colleagues from federated entities in this regard? In your general policy note, you mention your willingness, Madam Minister, to study "the possibility of achieving an additional offshore wind capacity outside the North Sea". Can we get you back to that? Finally, we know that many advances have been made in the field of wind energy technologies in recent years. Could we therefore be informed of the technologies used in this project? Given the technological advances I have just mentioned, is an adaptation of the existing wind farms envisaged?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic599x.u21	Minister, you and the Prime Minister and the Minister of the North Sea have made very timely statements. COP26 is approaching and it is important to go there with an ambition and some concrete elements, even if we are still waiting for the burden sharing 2020-2030 – but it is not within your competence – and while enormously money sleeps on an account and could for example be used to support precarious families in energy. Doel 1 will close on December 1, 2025 and the question is whether, in 2026, you will be at the beginning or at the end of the construction of the wind farms that are to constitute this energy island. This is crucial since this additional energy must replace outgoing infrastructure. Minister, is this timing compatible with the Ventilus project and the Hainaut loop, which we don't see being implemented until 2029-2030? Do you have binding agreements associated with guarantees, responsibilities or penalties in the configuration you imagine? Operators entering these public procurement contracts must assure you of a supply. When we talk about gigawatts and numbers, we always forget that we are dealing with intermittent energies, which are not pilotable and whose load rate is currently at the best of 40-45%. According to the press, the planned capacity is between 3.1 and 3.5 GW without zone extension and this requires a much larger infrastructure and mast strengthening. There will also be technical challenges as we will focus on the same area of much larger infrastructure. Let me remind you that the 14 MW wind turbines are only prototypes and are not yet industrialised – we are still testing them. So what about 17 MW wind turbines? What will be the level of support and the maximum strike price you have set? Have you committed the renewable objective simultaneously with a truly economic objective? Finally, is this density of 12.5 MW/km2 realistic?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic599x.u22	Mr President, Madam Minister, if it is all right, we say it too. The plan to increase the planned capacity in the Princess Elisabeth zone in the North Sea, with a tripled total capacity, with larger turbines on the same surface, is good news for the PVDA. Those larger turbines may have more impact. It is therefore important that you, and of course your colleague, Mr Van Quickenborne, take action to protect nature at sea. As has already been said, there are several functions in the North Sea besides rolling out that energy infrastructure. At the very least, we must avoid that local residents, the fisheries sector or nature associations would oppose these plans and would have grounds for doing so. On what time do you intend to develop that zone? Has anything changed in timing by increasing capacity? Or will the government accelerate the development of this zone? Have any additional measures been agreed on in relation to nature conservation or nature restoration? Has a decision been taken on how the government intends to develop this area? I am referring to the financial aspect. I read that you're opting for a tender. For us, and we are joined today by Mr Coens, the energy issue is so vital that it must be in public hands. In our view, you would do well to do so yourself, so that the proceeds flow back to the community and not all profits flow to the private shareholders. We are even less in favour of the families financing that profit with extra taxpayers' money.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic599x.u23	Madam Minister, Belgium is known as a pioneer in offshore wind farms. It was always intended to increase that capacity and to do so through a tender system. This work was started by Mr Philippe De Backer, who also has the merit of having had the courage to intervene in the price setting. He saved EUR 3 to 4 billion. I hope you will come up with similar proposals. You are now continuing that work, together with colleague Van Quickenborne. We are counting on you, so that the discussion is not only about what is added to the invoice of companies and consumers, but also about cost control. There are conditions attached to this file. Colleagues have already mentioned those 17 megawatt turbines. Are they sufficiently available? What are the wake effects? Is there an effect on the air currents on land? I would just like to mention the fact that all this must go hand in hand with the strengthening of the land-based high-voltage grid. There is unfortunately the contested Ventilus project and in Wallonia there is la Boucle du Hainaut. All this is crucial and the realisation of the energy island is linked to this. I do not want to be pessimistic about this, but I want to bring a certain reality to that debate. We look forward to the practical and professional elaboration by you, the government and the administrations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic599x.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. I reject the idea that the communication of the decision taken by this government last Friday is considered "something very timely". It's about an economic decision based on facts and figures. I am referring to the recent study by the Federal Office of Planning:Good wind: setting sail for a climate neutral Belgian energy system - Future Belgian offshore wind unravelled Plan. This study was published this Monday, October 18, 2021. Perhaps it might be interesting to hold an exchange of views in committee as part of the discussion of the policy paper on this subject. What does the Planning Bureau say? In order to evolve towards a climate-neutral energy system, we need renewable energy in large quantities. For Belgium, this means offshore wind energy. The Federal Planning Bureau assumes a scenario with 6 GW of wind energy at sea that decision we made last Friday additional and complementary to an interconnection. Two scenarios put forward the Planning Bureau. There is, on the one hand, 2 GW, for which we have signed a MOU with Denmark and in which we will soon take the second step. On the other hand, there is an alternative with even more interconnection with other countries. It's possible with the energy island. Last Friday, we also decided that the energy island would include interconnection capacity. The Planning Agency adds that we need flexible capacity and storage, namely large-scale adjustable carbon-free capacity on hydrogen or biogas. For this we make exactly the switch with the CRM and with the decarbonisation of the CRM in the framework of RRF. The Planning Bureau also states that flexibility is needed in the form of electric vehicles and heat pumps. That analysis was also made in the context of Elia's Adequacy and Flexibility Study. I also refer to the government's decision earlier in 2021 to electrify commercial cars. In this way we can evolve into a carbon-free Belgian energy system. We guarantee our supplies and we ensure affordability. We decided exactly what was in the study last Friday. The Planning Bureau also indicates that this requires a stable and regulatory framework. I agree with that. In summary, your questions also come down to that, namely how do we ensure that this stable and regulatory framework is in place. These include the financial conditions for the competitive tender procedure. The CREG recommends a two-sided contract for difference. Such a contract establishes a mechanism to stabilise the energy price: the developer is sure of a price he can get for his produced energy and the government is sure of a maximum amount to be paid for the stabilisation and also has the possibility to generate income from it in periods of high energy prices. In other words, windfall profits are avoided. This also means that the investment that consumers have made in recent years to fulfil the pioneering role could return to and be shared with the government when we develop the second zone. The government is currently considering whether a two-sided contract for difference is indeed the appropriate option. This mechanism has already been used in other European countries to finance wind energy at sea, as the CREG study writes, and has been approved by the European Commission. This mechanism is therefore perfectly in line with European rules. A Belgian contribution was submitted to the European Commission in the context of the consultation on climate, energy and environmental aid guidelines, which focuses on the framework for further integration and support of renewable energy. In preparation for the tender of the Princess Elisabethzone, ten technical preliminary studies are carried out by the government. Of these ten studies, one was completed in full and three are in progress. Four of the studies are under way and only two have yet to be fully launched. The planned date for completion of these studies, mid-203, has not been changed. A state of affairs can always be found on the website of the FPS Economy, the General Directorate for Energy, and is kept up-to-date. In the context of a two-sided contract for difference, there are times when the wind farms have to pay for a higher density of the wind farm. Mr Wollants, I am surprised at your comment on this, because it can by no means be an objective of the government to make the wind farms pay as little as possible, nor for the government to make as much profit as possible. The two-sided contract for difference mechanism aims to provide sufficient financial security for both parties, optimising the benefits for society while allowing wind farms to develop a stable business case. Minimum prices are still published on the CREG website. The publication is up-to-date. There was a short technical breakdown in the publication, but it was resolved very quickly. The minimum prices for Northwester 2, Seastar and Mermaid are not published for the time being, as these parks are covered by the advance scheme. The cost of advances shall be published by the CREG in its annual report. That way of working has not changed either. Mrs Marghem, your question seems very broad and encompasses many aspects. The energy island itself will be the subject of a public tender led by Elia Transmission Belgium. With regard to the Renewable Energy Communities Initiative, I have the ambition to involve citizens more fully in offshore wind energy and also to benefit from its benefits. It is important, in the context of the energy transition, that all citizens are also part of history. That's why I asked my team to come up with a proposal with the industry on how best to integrate this aspect into the tender. The European Commission's proposal for a revision of the Renewable Energy Directive, published on 14 July under the Fit for 55 package, aims to strengthen and boost the legislative framework for electricity purchasing contracts, so that small businesses such as citizens' energy communities can also have access to them. The switch to electric cars seems quite specific to me, since it is usually a matter of providing enough renewable electricity, including for our citizens. In addition, these citizens can also rely on other sources of renewable energy such as onshore wind and nearby solar panels. In this case, it will be important to align consumption more closely with production and to offer flexibility as a whole. Other initiatives are also being taken in the context of demand management. Electric cars - but also heat pumps - also play a role, as Elia and the Federal Planning Office have indicated. In view of the government's increased ambitions for the development of wind energy at sea, the European Commission has raised the bar for Member States with the Green Deal by making Europe climate neutral by 2050. In the context of Fit for 55, there is an objective of 40% renewable energy. The North Sea is an important link in this. The Belgian federal government therefore raises the bar at Belgian level, increasing the capacity of the Princess Elizabethzone to a minimum of 3.15 GW and a maximum of 3.5 GW and a total power of offshore wind production from 5.4 to 5.8 GW, if we take into account the already existing wind farms. For example, we are not far from the 6 GW that is being pushed forward by the sector itself. Belgium can obtain 25 TWh from renewable offshore energy by 2030, which is between 25% and 30% of current electricity demand in Belgium. In order to assess the impact of density on the LCOE, I asked the AD Energy to have a study carried out by an independent study firm. We have had an examination of whether increased production capacity is economically feasible and what its impact on energy production costs is. This has shown that the impact of an increase in capacity on energy production costs is rather limited. If all other parameters remain the same and only density in the parks is increased to the maximum, the LCOE increases by less than 5 % according to the study. The production factors, taking into account wake losses and blockage losses, vary between 46.6 and 52.3 % depending on turbine type and total installed capacity. Mrs Marghem, the most important technological advance we see concerns turbines. While in our first area in Belgium, 3.5 to 9.5 MW turbines were installed, 15 to 17 MW turbines are currently being designed. Our studies and research have used actual data from turbines that are already under development and that can be expected to be available at the time the construction of the first wind farm in the second zone begins, namely in 2026-2027. With regard to the technical aspects of the connection to the network, I refer to its design file, which will be submitted to the government next December, and which will contain all the details in this regard. In addition, I would like to draw your attention to the range that has been introduced, i.e. between 3.15 and 3.5 GW, as a production capacity target. This range will give promoters the flexibility to find an optimal balance between density, production capacity, design and location according to the characteristics of the area. I would also like to point out that several wind farms in the first zone have a higher density than we are considering here. However, it is true that the density remains higher than in other countries, which should not surprise you, given that we have only a very small area in the North Sea, which we must use as optimally as possible. The connection of the Princess Elisabeth area will be ensured by the energy island. An expansion of the offshore network is therefore necessary and planned. Detailed plans for this extension called MoG II will be submitted to the federal government by the Network Manager, Elia, in December of this year. The use and destination of each part of the Belgian North Sea is laid down in federal legislation, namely the marine spatial plan. The current MRP entered into force in 2020 and is valid until 2026. This plan has identified the Princess Elisabethzone as a zone for the production and transmission of renewable energy. Part of the zone is coloured as a Natura 2000 site. This means that nature conservation and nature conservation are important additional functions for this zone. The increase in capacity and the construction of the energy island fit fully within the limits set by the marine spatial plan. In other words, there is no deviation from the functions and use already laid down in the law for this area. Mr Warmoes, this also answers your question about the additional measures for nature conservation and conservation. The environmental permit and the Natura 2000 authorisation will impose different measures, both for the builders of the wind farms and for the builders of the energy island. On top of that, I foresee EUR 1 million from the RRF grant budget for nature conservation and restoration projects. I can only agree with the importance of interconnection to ensure Belgium's access to full renewable energy. This is made possible by the development of hybrid connections. Indeed, Mr.Ben Achour, two concrete offshore interconnection projects are currently under consideration. A first project called Nautilus provides for the connection between Belgium and a wind farm off the coast of the United Kingdom; a second project with Denmark provides for a connection between Belgium and the Danish energy island, which will also link our country to the Danish wind farm. For both projects, discussions with partner countries are ongoing and cost/benefit analyses and feasibility studies are carried out. In terms of timing, I can inform you, Mr. Ben Achour, Mrs. Marghem and Mr. Warmoes, that the construction of energy lines will be completed in the middle of 2026. Next, the transmission infrastructure will be built there and its construction will take place in parallel with the construction and commissioning of the wind farms, i.e. from 2027. The commissioning and connection will take place in phases, along with the completion of the reinforcement of the onshore network to which you referred, Mr. President. The timings, Mrs Marghem, are therefore indeed compatible. Mr Warmoes, the federal government will put the construction of the wind farms on the market by means of a tender procedure. No decision has yet been taken on how the government will place tenders in the market and what mechanisms will be used. However, these decisions will also follow soon. Mrs Marghem, the construction of the energy island will be done through a European tender procedure put on the market by the network operator Elia. The responsibilities, guarantees and penalties will of course be provided for and established contractually. As you understand, Mrs Marghem, this objective has been thoroughly examined, both economically and technically. The increase in the objective is realistic and feasible, and above all necessary. Everyone agrees on this point. The sector receives a clear message from this objective and knows what is expected of it. The federal government clearly defines the direction offshore wind will take, allowing the sector to start working there.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic599x.u25	The time you had to answer was very generous, but your answers were relevant, Madam Secretary. There are still 20 questions on the agenda, so I suggest that Members keep their replies brief and firm.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic599x.u26	Madam Minister, it is not surprising that we are asking questions and that we want to know the specific conditions, especially because I asked questions about this in March, and then you said yourself that this could not be decided in a fingernip, that a lot of conditions had to be respected and that you wanted to talk about this with all the parties. We are now hearing about this decision, but we have not heard anything about the dossier throughout that period, not even about the results of the studies, the conditions and so on. You say the sector itself asked for that 6 GW, but I know that. That is why I asked you a question on 2 March. That makes sense to me, too. So we certainly want to be involved in the further process. As far as the publication of minimum prices is concerned, all I can say is that apparently I always ask questions at exactly the wrong time, because when I submitted my question in September, no price has been mentioned since 2020. I am pleased that the submission of my question coincides wonderfully with the resolution of a fault at the CREG. I like all that, but there may be a little more transparency about that. We want to join the cart for that file, but we also want to ensure that the invoice does not end up with the consumer again and that we get value for money. That is the only condition we are making, and I think that is only right.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic599x.u27	Madam Secretary, thank you for the comprehensive state of affairs. Colleague Wollants is certainly right that it has been wind silent on this issue for a long time. I'd like to give you a little concern. You say the developer must be certain of his investment. I understand that very well, but we need to think very carefully about the conditions and the like, so that it cannot become a one-way street in the future. Whatever happens, the investments that are now taking place are there for many years and we must ensure that we are not tied up later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic599x.u28	Minister, thank you for your answers. They mark the government's ambition for transition. They also demonstrate that the transition will not be, and cannot be, incantatory discourses and vague objectives, but concrete investments, including public investments. From this point of view, I thank you for your approach and your approach to the energy transition. Mr President, I would like to take this opportunity to ask you what is the continuation of the programme. Does this commission have an expected end time?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic599x.u29	Yes: 12:30.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic599x.u30	Minister, I feel a certain nervousness in your response. Of course, I will not remove anything from what I said. I know, to be sufficiently informed, that the timing has been loaded so that such statements can take place now. It's not a self-problem; I'm just pointing it out. I didn't want to be heavy, but Mr. Leysen called him back earlier, it's with Mr. From Backer that I have set the framework in which you are now evolving to launch public procurement, that we have determined the area in the North Sea for the installation of the new park of the period 2020-2030, that we have removed from the operators four billion euros of support, that we have therefore launched this policy that you are pursuing. I did. We did it in four years of government. Basically, between an announcement and a series of studies that validate a project – which we are happy about, of course – there is a fundamental element that is the price. I think it is legitimate for any Member to be concerned about how, at some point, the technology will be financially supported by the consumer or the state budget. This will add considerable weight, even if it is the sense in which we have to go, especially since intermittentness, in the absence of a very large storage capacity, will be compensated by gas, with the cost that is known in financial terms and in terms of greenhouse gas emissions. We will, of course, follow with great interest the progress of this issue, which must flourish after 2024.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic599x.u31	I apologize for not appointing you, but I met Mr. De Backer, and so it was him I immediately thought of. I know it's a team work that's been done.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic599x.u32	Madam Secretary, thank you for your comprehensive explanation. As already mentioned, we support the increased capacity in the North Sea. We are, of course, different from our vision of the role of the government in this. You decide to appeal to private companies and to subsidise them, how much will remain to be proved. The question is whether this wind energy will not be profitable at that time. In any case, we do not want that invoice to end up with the consumer. As far as that vision is concerned, I cannot deny the pleasure of quoting CD&V chairman Joachim Coens, with a wink at Mrs Dierick. He says in Humo that the liberalisation of the energy sector was not a good thing, that we have given up too much and that energy is a public task. He says he's on the PVDA line on that plane. That's remarkable, isn't it? Of course, we believe that we need to invest in renewable energy, but by the government itself. Tegelijk verwelkomen we were u in het Frans zei: wanting to involve citizens in offshore energy and being busy determining how to appeal to energy communities of citizens. This is a good initiative that we welcome. Citizens' cooperatives have a role to play in energy production as well. Finally, Madam Minister, I understand that you are paying attention to nature restoration and protection. I've got an edge to that. Like the Netherlands, Belgium has a sandy coast, with a specific fauna and flora and with only exceptions to that so far the wave breakers and port dams. From that we are slowly making a rocky coast. This must be done, but it is good that the most valuable parts of the sandy coast are protected and that compensation is provided for the remaining parts.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic599x.u33	Mr President, I wanted to speak because I think this is an extremely important matter. What I heard in Minister Van der Straeten's voice was clearly not nervousness but ambition and great determination to achieve its renewable energy goals and climate goals. We went from 2.1 to 3.5 GW in the Princess Elizabeth area. Additional capacity is added thanks to the energy island. Here too, it is a world first, an innovation that must be emphasized. A total of 5.8 GW or 25 TWh of green electricity. This means several very concrete things for the energy future of our country. First, the gas will have to turn less. Our ambition is to limit the use of gas-vapour turbines and gas-fired power plants to the strict minimum necessary. That's exactly what we're talking about energy switch, it's turning your back on the energies of the past and investing decisively in renewable energy, which is cheaper, which is much greener for the 21st century. The second very concrete consequence is that all this is without subsidies. Besides, it is also a way to protect us, to make us much less vulnerable to imports of gas, fossil energy. I would point out that, for the moment, even uranium is at the top of the curve, and these are price developments that are not controlled, by definition, since they are taking place at international level. In the long term, 16 000 jobs have been created in the Belgian economy. I recently went to Taiwan. They have left nuclear power and are building offshore wind farms. And who's building them there, Taiwan, across the planet? They're Belgians! It is therefore good for our economy, and I am very proud, Madam Minister, that you are registering Belgium as the world leader in offshore wind in the North Sea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic599x.u34	The President: I would remind you that you have the right to have your question answered in writing, to refer to the written record of your question or to put it briefly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic599x.u35	Mrs Dierick, the draft royal decree laying down the minimum requirements for invoices and invoicing information was approved by the Council of Ministers on 23 July. We have received the opinion of the Council of State and are still waiting for the comments of the Data Protection Authority. We held informal consultations with the Regions before the summer. There was an agreement on the implementation of the simplified invoice as of 1 January 2022. The Royal Decree is still intended to enter into force on that day. For the implementation, we remain in consultation with the suppliers, who have pointed out the impact of the delay of MIG6. Of course, we are also asking them to implement the energy standard, in fact excise duty. We are therefore ready to bring the Royal Decree into force on 1 January 2022, but in view of the different implementations that need to take place, I am not sure that this can be added to it for the suppliers. I will continue to insist that any delay is as short as possible, for example a few months, but not a year. We really intend to move forward with this now that we are finally there. As long as I come to Parliament again, I have heard you ask questions about this. You were therefore the main contributor to the resolution. Everyone has been involved, and now we are ready. The last pieces may be a bit heavy, but it will come.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic599x.u36	Madam Minister, thank you for your transparent answer. Of course, I understand the additional burden on suppliers, because there is a lot to implement. Like you, I am concerned about simplification. I hope it works.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic599x.u37	Madam Minister, I will leave the introduction to my question and ask only the five specific questions. Firstly, on what legal basis does Promaz support the request for an increase in the contribution in the application for recognition, and on what legal basis did you promise this contribution? Was the federal minister of economics informed of that agreement with the sector in advance? Secondly, how do you reconcile the promised increase in contributions in the second pillar with Article 15 of the cooperation agreement of 25 July 2018? Does Promaz today have the necessary capacity to make such a request for an increase? Thirdly, the cooperation agreement mentioned already provides for an evaluation of the contributions after a few years, so that they can be adjusted. Why then, today, with the reserve of about EUR 120 million at BOFAS, which can be paid out in advance to Promaz in advance of the liquidation of BOFAS, should a second funding pillar be added? Why was it not enough for the sector and for you? Why didn't you check with your regional colleagues in advance how they felt about that? Are you aware that you have made promises to the sector for which you do not have a mandate on the basis of the said cooperation agreement and which, moreover, are clearly contrary to Article 15 of that cooperation agreement? Finally, can you explain what, once Promaz has achieved his goal, will happen to any surpluses that the consumer will pay?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic599x.u38	Madam Minister, in May 2021 the fuel oil sector reached an agreement with the federal government on the framework for the recognition of that Promaz soil restoration fund. That will be financed in two ways. Firstly, this is done through the transfer of financial surpluses from BOFAS. Secondly, there will be a contribution of 1 cent per litre, which will eventually be reflected in the maximum price of the fuel oil, which would amount to a surcharge of EUR 59 per filling for a modal fuel oil tank. The fund estimates that a budget of up to EUR 512 million will have to be available for 20 years for operation, with an automatic stop of collection at the time of reaching that amount. On 21 June, Promaz submitted an application for recognition to the IBC. The IBC was to give its opinion on the admissibility of the file on 3 July. The 2018 cooperation agreement provides for funding under Articles 15 and 35, but an agreement must also be concluded with your regional colleagues. At the end of June, you proposed to work on the adaptation of the Programme Agreement. The financing would be linked to that. I'd like to hear the progress of the case. To what extent are the provisions of the May 2021 Agreement consistent with the different provisions of the Cooperation Agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic599x.u39	Mr Van Lommel, as promised after the consultation, the sector would submit the Promaz dossier to the Interregional Soil Reunification Committee. That happened on June 21st. This means that this dossier is unblocked and that we are currently looking at its effective entry into force. We can solve the greatest environmental pollution and reduce the burden of the bill that is hanging over people's heads. At its meeting on 22 June, the Interregional Soil Reunification Commission took note of the dossier. The various members of the IBC examined the admissibility and had to express their opinion on 3 July. After that, the committee had a maximum of four months to accept the dossier. A meeting took place in August to prepare the final acceptance of the dossier and in the meantime my services had to amend the programme agreement and consider when it should enter into force. On 26 September, a decision was taken on the admissibility of the file. This means that the committee will have to give a final opinion by 26 December at the latest. So the conclusion is that we are on the right track. The cooperation agreement of 25 July 2018 shall be honoured. We've been three years. Some regions have rightly taken measures to discourage the use of fuel oil. This means, however, that Promaz's funding might be compromised. In that sense, I have instructed my administration to investigate this further. I still call for the fund and its financing to be launched as soon as possible. It is not a bid between the Regions and the federal government, it is an interfederal matter and everyone has their powers. I'm in charge of funding. I'm gonna go with the agreements that were made earlier on that. In doing so, we take into account the policy that is now being pursued by the regions, namely the phasing out of the fuel oil boilers. By reconciling these matters, we have been able to unblock the file. The sector has informed me that they need a maximum of five months to make the non-profit association Promaz operational, i.e. to recruit staff, set up offices, start-up and so on. The Promaz Fund is ultimately an interfederal fund with which we work for all regions, so for all Belgians in this country who are affected by a fuel oil pollution at home and who have a heavy bill hanging over their head. It is a huge environmental pollution that we solve and at the same time we also solve the financial concerns of a pack of people.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic599x.u40	I haven't heard anything about the alignment with the Minister of Economy. The IBC therefore agrees with the application for recognition if this is done on the basis of the cooperation agreement. This means that without the 1 cent per litre it will be borne by the consumer, at least initially, because there are still a lot of resources in the BOFAS fund. Today, the dialogue between the regions is still ongoing and this condition is therefore not formally met. On the basis of the 2018 cooperation agreement, as long as the consultations are ongoing, there is no legal basis for a fuel oil fund. So, technically, this is nothing more than premature communication from you. This means that you are de facto misleading the consumer, because there is nothing today, which Promaz itself indicates on the website. After all, it says that the fund is being set up, but that there is nothing formally yet. I suggest that the problem really be solved.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic599x.u41	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I understand, of course, that this is being unblocked from the view that fuel oil and fuel oil tanks are being phased out. I also understand the objectives behind it. However, in certain areas it is a very shaky dossier, which you are proposing very positively at the moment, but which is much more hidden behind it. I ask myself questions about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic599x.u42	For me, it is always a quick course here to update my knowledge through the questions and answers of the Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic599x.u43	Madam Minister, on 8 January 2021 there was a serious incident on the European high-voltage grid which was then divided into two zones. A large blackout could be prevented by interventions in France and Italy, among others. In February, you indicated that the cause was an overflow security in Croatia that had entered into force, but that it was not entirely clear what had caused it. A panel of six experts would investigate the underlying cause for six months. That period is now behind us. It's important to know exactly what caused it. The European transmission system has responded adequately, but if the cause remains unknown, it cannot be ruled out that the problem is repeated. Worse still, it cannot be ruled out that a similar situation is taking place in different countries at the same time. That may not be as positive as it was last time. Have you received any information on the outcome of the investigation? If not, did you actively look for that information? Can you explain the results to us? What lessons do you draw from this with regard to the European transmission network and its capacities, of course focusing on the Belgian regulatory area?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic599x.u44	On 15 July 2021, the European Network of Transmission System Operators for Electricity (ENTSO-E) published a report prepared by a panel of experts. On 26 July, the ENTSO-E presented the findings, conclusions and recommendations at an additional ad hoc meeting of the European Commission's Electricity Coordination Group. The staff of the General Energy Directorate were there and subsequently briefed me about the meeting. Mr Wollants, if you will allow me, I am not going to explain the technical aspects of the incident that led to the splitting of the European network into two zones on 8 January. Explaining what is in the ENTSO-E's 144-page report would have a heavy impact on the time available in this committee. I'm going to confine myself to the most important findings. First of all, the incident has been well addressed thanks to the coordination between the various TSOs in Europe. It was fixed in less than an hour. Security of supply in Europe has not been compromised. The incident was even better and more efficient than an incident with similar consequences in 2006, from which clear lessons were drawn. We also learned a lot from this incident. Firstly, the problem of limited margins of stability between the north-west and the south-east has been more clearly identified. Secondly, it has apparently also provided insight into possible future challenges associated with the energy transition. Indeed, the TSOs expect more and more large flows over long distances, but are quite confident that with good and improved operational arrangements, the resilience of the system can be maintained. In this context, ENTSO-E has formulated 22 recommendations which, in addition to very technical recommendations, involve more analysis of dynamic stability and stability margins, better alarm handling, ensuring that the system always loses one important element without compromising the stability of the network (the so-called (N-1 criterion) and improved exchange between network operators in a region of information on their own grid status and security. You're asking what I learned from this myself. I have learned that cooperation between European Transmission System Operators (TSOs) works and improves by the day. European legislation is already very suitable for this cooperation and for the operational handling of incidents. I also understand that a team will be set up to examine how the system would have reacted if all legislation had been incorporated and implemented. I look forward with particular interest to the findings of that team. For me, it was a remarkable passage in the report. On the one hand, it has been shown that the system and operational cooperation are very robust and that a major impact has been avoided. On the other hand, it is also confirmed that the impact could have been very large. Furthermore, I am concerned that an investigation into such incidents takes so long to produce a report, which, of course, points to an enormous complexity. Politicians must be aware of this and can provide guidance, or better, to ensure that the system and its management remain sufficiently resilient, especially with the challenges of the energy transition and the climate objectives that we aim to achieve. The tools and regulations are available at both European and Belgian level, such as the elaboration of the network development plan, the system protection plan and the recovery plan. I am currently working on proposals to strengthen the role and expertise of my administration.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic599x.u45	Madam Secretary, you say that lessons are being learned with which you are going to work. In fact, I think it is important to develop that story further, as the complexity of the network will certainly increase. The contribution of other forms of energy can bring benefits, but can also put pressure on a number of issues. It is therefore important that we continue to monitor this. I do have some questions about your wording, if this incident was even better followed than in 2006. In 2006, seven countries were partially out of power for two hours. Calling that "good" is not an option. "Even better" I would therefore be somewhat nuanced. 2006 was by no means an example of how such matters should be dealt with. For us, the bar must be a little higher and we look forward to the way in which you want to set it higher.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic599x.u46	Mr President, Minister, I have two questions which have the concept of CREG in common, but not so much. Firstly, a while ago, we adopted a legislative proposal to amend the rules for the Disciplinary Board of the CREG. Can you tell us what the current state of affairs is, because you yourself were concerned that it would not function optimally? Secondly, we have already asked a lot of questions here about the appointment of a new chairman and, by extension, a new management committee, of the CREG. You indicated that you would start the procedure completely from scratch for the whole, both for the President and for the other Members. The reason for the replacement of the chairman was that the previous chairman of the Management Committee became CEO at Sibelga, although he is now available again, I understand. He doesn't work there anymore. Almost half a year later, the question is: what route have you made in the meantime? Has a new Selor procedure started yet? Is that gonna happen? What's the status? What is the planning for the coming weeks and months? How do we get a fully-fledged new management committee to the CREG? Or is there still waiting for potential candidates?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic599x.u47	Mr President, Minister, this is indeed a follow-up question. In March, you explained that you would stop the initial procedure because European and national energy law showed that the selection tests were no longer accurate to complete the President's mandate. In the meantime, the mandate of other members of the Management Board also expires. That is why I would like to know from you the current state of play of the selection procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic599x.u48	Mr President, I have now ordered Selor to initiate the new procedure. I haven't received any concrete timing from Selor yet. I can also tell you that the same applies to the renewal of the Energy Ombudsperson. With regard to the Disciplinary Board of the CREG, I refer to Article 24 of the Electricity Act. The Disciplinary Board shall consist of a chairman and two members, all magistrates, former magistrates, or alternate magistrates, elected by the Chamber of Representatives for a renewable term of six years. The Chamber of Representatives shall lay down the rules for the election of members of the Disciplinary Board and its Registrars. I would like to refer, as you did, Mr Wollants, to my intervention in committee at the time. I read the report: 'Mrs Van der Straeten believes that, in general, the magistrates are over-inquired to sit in disciplinary councils and disciplinary colleges of various sectors. The solution proposed in the legislative proposal still restricts the target audience of the candidates to the magistrates, although an opening is being made to appointed and deputy magistrates. It is prepared to give this limited extension a chance, but is not convinced that it will solve the problem of a lack of candidates. If the new law does not provide an adequate solution, the member considers that it should be examined whether lawyers or lawyers could not be considered. Mr Wollants, your answer to that was as follows: I read the report: 'Mr Wollants understands Mrs van der Straeten's suggestion, but first wishes to give a chance to the new regulation proposed in the legislative proposal. There were no other comments during the discussion. I can only conclude today that the Disciplinary Board is still not here. I suggest that you address the President of the Chamber to take the necessary initiatives. Of course, I could address the chairman, but since it concerns the Disciplinary Board of the CREG, you could still accuse me of sending a negative signal to the CREG Management Committee, which is why the Disciplinary Board belongs to Parliament. If, however, you think it is right for me to take an initiative, I can certainly consider it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic599x.u49	Madam Minister, we are, of course, looking forward to the further development of the situation for the Management Committee. I suspect that we will soon see the Selor procedure appear. As you know, I have already mentioned in the past that the fact that it continues to drag on for so long is not a very healthy situation. I also know that there is no formal problem, but we cannot say that the situation we are currently in is ideal. As far as the Disciplinary Board is concerned, I believe that the views of that time are still valid. We did give it a chance. If you advise me to take the right steps to find a solution to this problem, we would, of course, consider it. We do not want to put you in a position where you are obliged to do things where we could then accuse you of something else and that sort of thing more. So we'll see what direction we'll go.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic599x.u50	Madam Secretary, the current members of the CREG Management Committee were appointed in 2013. This means that their mandate will end on 1 September 2019, six years later. I understand that this is not a problem at the moment, but it is not a healthy situation for it to drag on for so long. You say the order was given to Selor. We'll see what the next steps will be. I can only hope that this won't take months, because this is really not healthy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic599x.u51	Mr President, this is a relatively short question. In the meantime, it is known that some of the interconnection between Britain and France will be out of service. This may create a problem in terms of security of supply, but it may also increase the pressure on our own interconnections. This may also limit the amount of electricity we can exchange with countries other than the United Kingdom. Does the failure of this connection have an impact on the extent to which we can use our interconnection capacity? Should additional measures be taken to organise a sufficiently high level of security of supply? Are accompanying measures taken with the TSOs in neighbouring countries to reduce their impact?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic599x.u52	Mr President, there was initially a planned unavailability until 25 September 2021, but that period was extended until 23 October 2021. Until that date, the full IFA-1 connector will be unavailable. This is about 2,000 MW. This will give the Nemo Link an even more important role for the security of supply of the United Kingdom. However, Belgium's security of supply is not affected by this fire. As every winter, security of supply in Belgium is partly dependent on the situation in neighbouring countries. The indications according to the network operator Elia are the following for the coming winter: - United Kingdom: the current situation already shows very high prices and import requirements, it is unclear when this situation will improve. - France: the supply situation is similar to last winter, in a cold wave it translates into high import requirements for France. - Belgium: Belgium is characterised by good availability of the production park and limited import requirements. In general, in terms of the Belgian security of supply, the impact of the unavailability of the IFA-1 will be positive to neutral. Since the United Kingdom has more deficits, IFA will export less to the United Kingdom and Nemo Link will probably be slightly more. Although we have to admit that Belgium's exports to the United Kingdom via Nemo Link were already quite high on average before this incident. The markets of Belgium and France are closely linked by a high interconnection capacity between the two countries, which will have a positive effect on France and Belgium, which will reduce France's exports to other countries. This should substantially offset the possible negative impact of more exports via Nemo Link on Belgium and France. At the moment, Elijah does not give rise to any problems, so that accompanying measures should not be defined. For the coming winter, the ENTSO-E is preparing the winter outlook that needs to provide a good picture based on the latest information on how the adequacy will be for all EU countries in the coming winter. The Outlook will be published by ENTSO-E on 1 December 2021, in accordance with European regulations. In addition to the winter outlook of the ENTSO-E, the data for the next week will also be exchanged daily to monitor the situation closely. The security of supply and other events likely to affect security of supply shall be closely monitored by the system operators.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic599x.u53	My main concern is, of course, that, if we are more of a transit country to the United Kingdom, because the IFA-1 connection is not in use, the possibilities of introducing power are limited, should this be necessary. That will not be an issue for the coming winter, but it may be after 2022 or 2023 and then it will become more important. We hope, of course, that the link will be fully operational by then and will no longer cause problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic599x.u54	Mr President, Minister, there are a number of mechanisms in the social tariff which may be a little strange. For example, when market prices begin to decline, it is still possible that the social tariff will continue to rise over a certain period of time. This has mainly to do with the pavements per quarter and over the last four quarters because there is still an increase. Today, all the increases have been capped. The CREG has also referred to this on a number of occasions. So the ceiling always goes up a bit. That is, of course, only a brake on the rise in the social tariff. However, that is something that can continue. My first question concerns the cost, which we have already addressed. Can you confirm that, in the current context, the social tariff continues to rise as a result of the ceiling, even if the increase in the market has already stopped? I would also like to ask for confirmation of the social tariff figures for the fourth quarter. However, I think we already know that in the first quarter of next year the social rate is likely to rise by just over 8 and 10.5%. Is that indeed what you expect, Madam Secretary?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic599x.u55	Mr President, Minister, you have indeed taken some important measures to limit the influence of rising gas prices, and the social tariff is the most striking of them. It is intended to be extended until 31 March next year. Is this a final deadline or is an evaluation to be carried out? After all, that communication is not entirely clear to me. More importantly, with regard to the withdrawal itself, most people who are currently in the social tariff are going to spend more than a year in it. Their social tariff contract may therefore no longer be valid. How is the guidance going to the free market? Why don't we just drop those customers back on the free market? I fear that they will lose part of the benefit they have had for a few months or a year. And that would, of course, be very unfortunate. So how's this gonna go? If you provide guidance, do you see it as a structural solution?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic599x.u56	Mr President, Minister, I can be brief, because my colleagues have already mowed the grass at my feet. Mr Wollants has already mentioned the rise in the social tariff. I trust you will confirm that, Madam Secretary. What will you do about it? Of course, this EUR 80 will not be enough, which is already not enough in relation to the more than EUR 300 increase in the social rate, which is already in place at the beginning of this year. Will you take any additional measures? Will you intervene? Building on what Mr Verduyckt said, what about people who at that time are no longer entitled to the social tariff and those who get an expensive contract from one day to the next, if they end up on the distribution system operator, when they might have had a cheaper contract in the past? What are you gonna do about it? How do you intend to avoid them paying more in the end?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic599x.u57	The cost of the social tariff in 2021 is estimated at EUR 133 million for electricity and EUR 166 million for natural gas. This means additional costs of EUR 18 million for electricity and EUR 88 million for natural gas. These additional costs are caused by the sharp rise in wholesale prices. The estimates date from 23 September. Referring to our earlier debate, I would like to point out that thanks to the energy standard that additional price is not included in the federal contribution in 2022. In this way we prevent the invoice from rising in 2022. The social tariff is being capped. Compared to market prices, social rates are currently at a very low level, especially for gas, which is just being consumed in winter. In the coming trimesters, social rates will continue to rise, even if prices on the market fall. Social rates will continue to be more advantageous than commercial tariffs, but the difference (the delta) between the two will decrease significantly. It is important that social maximum rates are lower than market prices. As far as your third question is concerned, that is indeed the case. The CREG has published the social rates for the 4th quarter on its own website. The ceiling is a good thing so that, with all the people claiming the social tariff, they are not or to a much lesser extent exposed to the volatility of the market. I now turn to Mr Verduyckt's questions. Where a customer is entitled to the social rate, the supplier shall terminate the commercial contract of the person concerned. This method of working has been applied since the introduction of the social tariff. At the end of March 2022, at the end of the extension of the social tariff, the group of social tariff customers with a right based on the increased concession will be redirected to the commercial market. I share your concern about that large group of families. That is why we have also developed a transitional arrangement of EUR 32 million. At the moment, we are working on the concrete roll-out of this phase-out, using the available money as best we can to avoid bill shock in the families concerned. This is the subject of consultation with the sector. In addition to this budgetary measure, there is a qualitative measure. The legislation on dormant contracts, by Mr Verduyckt and approved by Parliament, does not apply to these customers. That is why I would like to propose a preliminary draft law quickly in which we require suppliers to inform the customer when the social tariff is abolished and to offer him the cheapest equivalent product at that time. Mr Verduyckt, this is done by analogy with the legislative amendment in the context of non-active products. Customers can also, once they return to the commercial market to purchase their energy, look for a cheaper contract. For this the price comparison of the regulators are the best tool. Mr Warmoes, the extension of the social tariff to persons entitled to an increased allowance was established for the period from 1 February to 31 December 2021. The Budget Conclave decided to extend this until 31 March 2022. In this way, we guarantee the maximum social price for 440,000 families when prices and consumption are highest. The social tariff is a very efficient measure that today helps nearly 1 million families with the energy bill. The fact that the social tariff follows the market price is a European requirement. This must also ensure that the social tariff remains affordable. As you point out, the social tariff for natural gas has risen in a year. You do not say that the social maximum price was at a historical low because of the corona crisis last year. So your comparison gives a very distorted picture of reality. Moreover, the increase in the social tariff is limited by ceilings. For gas, the maximum price may rise 15 % on a quarterly basis and 25 % on an annual basis. For electricity, the maximum price may rise by 10% on a quarterly basis and by 20% on an annual basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic599x.u58	Madam Secretary, we look forward to the steps you will take. There is quite a challenge for you, because if those people return to the regular market, the rates they will have to pay from April may be very strongly inspired by the still high prices on the market at that time. We will have to look into what this means in the future, especially in view of the mechanism of transitional measures that you want to install. You have confirmed the figures for the increase in the rate. They had already been confirmed by the CREG. I also believe that the figures I have just mentioned are likely to be true at the beginning of January. We also need to look at the impact that this will have in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic599x.u59	Madam Minister, it is a good thing that you look beyond just the period of enlargement. You are also looking at the legislation that has been adopted here to establish a fair and non-compulsive regime. I am very pleased that you will do so. We are protecting these people now, but we don't know what the market will be like in early April. It is good to provide for an arrangement, for which I am grateful.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic599x.u60	Madam Secretary, you refuse to take measures for the broad working class that accounts for 80% of families. You have admitted that prices will increase effectively according to the known mechanism of quarterly price adjustments. There may be a slowing effect, but it remains an effect in the longer term. So you are failing to adequately protect the most vulnerable. With regard to the EUR 300 price increase, you say that it must remain affordable and that I did not mention that the price was historically low, but I would point out that many families in the corona crisis also had a historically low income. Many families have lost income, so percentagely speaking this is in their budget. I note that you take note of this and do not go into it further. However, I doubt that the increase in the social rate will remain affordable. However, a solution can be simple: you can freeze the rise in the social rate by means of a legislative initiative, so that it gets lower, because it is now far too high.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic599x.u61	Mr President, Minister, the analysis of rising energy prices is mainly linked to the price of gas. There are a number of important elements in this: the attracting economy, the willingness in Asia to pay higher prices for LNG, which also makes it more attractive for that market and has also caused problems for the supply of gas in Norway. In addition, there are a number of market players who indicate that it is also a geopolitical story, in the sense that there is a strategy for Russian suppliers not to supplement stocks in Europe, following the Nord Stream 2 discussion. Graphs are even distributed by those market players showing that since the minimum level was reached, after the winter, stocks were hardly replenished, which led to problems. That is why, in a joint letter, a number of MEPs asked the European Commission to investigate market manipulation and so on. At the same time, you said in a debate yourself that we should not override it, because only 4% of our gas comes from Russia. The question is, however, what effect this will have in the future, especially in view of the fact that gas prices are not only fixed by us. For example, the main gas market that we are considering today is located in the Netherlands, although I can imagine that this will be less so as gas supplies decline from there. In other words, I can imagine that the share of Russian gas will increase when the share of Dutch gas becomes smaller. Finally, the historically low CAL22 and CAL23 prices raise a number of questions in relation to the neighbouring countries. Firstly, do you think that the prices for Russian gas that are scored in this way have no effect on the mix of our families and therefore do not appear on those invoices? How do you see this evolution in the field of gas resources? Secondly, can you confirm the low filling rate of the Gazpromstocks? Can you also provide information about the storage in Loenhout? What's the solution to that? Are you talking to your colleagues about this within the European Union? What is the assessment of security of supply? After all, it is said that it will be difficult to complete those stocks in time for the real winter. How do you explain the structurally lower quotations for the CAL22 and CAL23 compared to the neighbouring countries? What is the reason for that? Finally, will you join the call for market manipulation? I can imagine that the European Commission has already made a number of statements on this matter. I look forward to your answer to these three blocks of questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic599x.u62	Minister,
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic599x.u63	I understand your concerns about our security of gas supply and the impact on prices. As far as security of supply is concerned, I am quite reassured. Since Belgium is located at the crossroads of gas roads, it has 18 points of interconnection with neighbouring countries. This wide range of interconnection points allows Belgium to have sufficient import capacity to guarantee the import level necessary for the country's supply, even in extreme situations such as winter peaks or harsh winters. As far as the Belgian storage site in Loenhout is concerned, its role in our supply has never been to ensure the country's complete supply alone, but at the very least to make a significant contribution to it. With an average consumption of 526 GWh per day, the Loenhout storage site is able to contribute to it at a maximum level of 170 GWh per day, or 33% of our average consumption. Theoretically, if the simplifying assumption is that this sub-stirage would not be dependent on the level of filling, then at the current level of filling - 90.5% - 37 consecutive days of maximum sub-stirage would be required to return to a level of filling equivalent to 20% of storage capacity. At present, therefore, there is no reason for Belgium to be concerned about security of supply. However, evolutions must be followed carefully. Moreover, in the longer term, I am confident that we should not expect structural problems with our gas supply. Then I come to your question about the long-term analysis. Despite the closure of the production of L-gas by the Netherlands, there are enough producer countries left to supply Belgium to avoid a monopoly situation. Moreover, if we look further in the longer term, renewable gases, methane and hydrogen could play a significant role in terms of security of supply. We're also working on our hydrogen vision. It is currently being discussed by the government and will provide an answer. Another story is the price evolution. The current price increases are global and the result of the coming together of various circumstances. You referred to Russia in your question. I would like to refer to the ACER-paper High Energy Prices of October 2021. I believe that ACER brings together the various aspects of Russia very briefly and to the point. On page 7, under point 3.2, is it about Market behaviour by Russia? It refers, on the one hand, to the fact that Gazprom has fulfilled its contractual obligations. That is something that is often heard in this debate. It also mentions the other elements, I quote: "Some factors point to certain restores facing Russian supply of gas." There ACER refers to higher consumption in Russia itself and to exports to other markets, such as Turkey, China and LNG. Reference is also made to the maintenance work on both the Nord Stream and the Yamal pipeline, and this could affect the flow. Reference is also made to Gazprom's market strategy, which is to contract in the long term. Er staat, ik citeer: "Gazprom’s reluctance to acquire short-term transmission capacity to increase or even maintain its flows across Ukraine and Poland has led to discussions on potential linkages to the possible entry into operation of the Nord Stream 2 pipeline." You asked for my opinion and how I read it. For me, this ACER report brings together the various aspects of Russia in the most comprehensive way. This applies both at the level of infrastructure and at the level of market behaviour. The ACER paper also describes how to handle our gas storage. Can we develop a strategy at European level on storage and long-term contracts and can that help us? We wish to think further on this point. Perhaps this will also be discussed at the additional Energy Council, which will take place next week. Mr President, next week I cannot be present at the committee meeting, since the Energy Council will then meet specifically on the European Commission's toolbox for energy prices. We will have to keep a close eye on this aspect, even if the quotations stabilize back. We will also have to frame the geopolitical approach in, as ACER describes it, a holistic policy and approach. We will have to define clearly where we want to go as a country and as a continent, as Europe, with the European Union, because it is best to guide it regularly. That is the exercise that we must also make in the toolbox, not only at national level, but also at European level.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic599x.u64	Madam Minister, I think it would be wise to analyse this carefully and to take up our role. I believe that we must avoid, as a country or from Europe, accepting or subjecting ourselves to too high energy prices. We need to play a role so that we are less the player in the future. There is a task for Europe to develop a strategy around it, rather than individually looking at where our gas comes from. The differences in wholesale prices with other countries are also important. I shall come back to that at a forthcoming committee meeting, since I do not think you have yet answered that point.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic599x.u65	I fully agree with Mr Wollants' reply. We must maintain intellectual and energy independence from our suppliers, and we must do so preferably at European level, even if we must do so also at Belgian level. The Nord Stream 2 is not an instrument that allows us a priori to reassure against this reflection which should make us independent. We shall return to this matter later.
