ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic646x.u1	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the government agreement states that our country will take further steps in bilateral and multilateral differentiation policies. One of the reasons for this is undoubtedly Israel's lack of respect for international law and human rights, and the continued illegal occupation of the Palestinian territories. On Tuesday 16 October, you announced the major lines of action in the differentiation policy towards Israeli settlements. The pan-European think tank European Council on Foreign Relations (ECFR) found that several bilateral agreements between Belgium and Israel do not contain a specific differentiation clause, including the Social Security Convention and the Double Taxation Convention. How does Belgium intend to exclude the settlements and settlers living there from the benefits of the bilateral agreements with Israel? How will you ensure that the competent Belgian administrations take steps to implement such exclusion in practice? The application of differentiation in bilateral agreements with Israel can have a much greater effect if it is applied by several European countries at the same time. What specific initiatives will the Minister take to encourage Belgium to take similar measures? In addition, Belgium is committed to engaging with similar states in discussions with the European Commission in order to improve the efficiency of controls on the origin of products. Can you give us an update on this dialogue? How will the Departments of Finance and Economic Affairs tighten up their controls on the origin of products? What means are provided for this? How long will this be implemented? Have you already expressed the Belgian support at multilateral level for an update of the UN database of companies operating in occupied territories? Belgium is in favour of such an update, as you yourself said in this House. In what way will Belgium proactively participate in the update? Finally, on 16 October, you also referred to a citizens' initiative in favour of banning imports into the EU of products from illegal occupied territories. On 8 September, that citizens' initiative was declared admissible by the European Commission. Can you explain more about this initiative? What are the requests? What's the timing? How will our country consult with other countries on this proposal?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic646x.u2	Minister, my colleague De Vriendt has already asked a few questions. So I'm going to be shorter and divide my speech into two. I asked you two questions about settler violence and two other questions about differentiation policy. As you know, Israeli settler attacks on Palestinian civilians are increasing in the occupied territories. Humanitarian organizations are concerned about this and alert us. Last week, we had the chance to receive the director of the Israeli NGO of B'Tselem, Hagaï El-Ad. He presented his views on the violence of settlers in the West Bank and East Jerusalem. He explained to us that these acts of fear, beatings, burnt olive trees, razed fields, stone throws had a purpose: to make the lives of Palestinians impossible – under the passive gaze of the army – to be able to establish new settlements afterwards. Indeed, some Palestinians were forced to flee their territory. The violence was also condemned to the United Nations by Washington, which, in my view, was a major obstacle to peace. Unfortunately, I believe that impunity for such violence, encouraged by an Israeli legal system that often closes its eyes to these attacks, is a real tool for colonization. How many Belgians with dual nationality live in Israeli settlements, including those in East Jerusalem? Do these Belgians benefit from diplomatic protection, social agreements or services from our embassy in Tel Aviv? What measures can be taken against such persons guilty of violations of international law? The ban on entering the territory to be applied to violent Israeli settlers is regularly referred to by the EU itself, in particular in the report of the heads of EU missions in Jerusalem. Is it being considered? My second set of questions dealt with the policy of differentiation. The new Israeli government announced 2,850 new housing units in Israeli settlements. It is always a policy of intensifying an occupation, and always with impunity, which continues in this government. Trade in settlement products in the occupied Palestinian territories is of course used to fuel this settlement. Many voices, including in Israel, are mobilizing to highlight not only the inadequacy of labelling of these products, but also to consider the need for a ban on the import of these products from illegal settlements. In October, you reached an agreement within the government – which I am delighted about – on the policy of differentiation. The agreement emphasises the importance of acting in consultation with Member States known as like-minded states on the various measures to be implemented. These political advances are essential to send a perhaps symbolic but no less important message against colonization policy in order to ensure what guides us: respect for international law. What actions does your firm take to get in touch with these famous like-minded Member States and encourage them to take further steps? Has the update of the United Nations database of companies involved in the colonies been put on the table? What contacts have you made with the new Israeli government to signal our position on a policy of colonization that unfortunately continues?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic646x.u3	Minister, I had introduced an issue on the occasion of the International Day of Solidarity with the Palestinian People, which, since 1978, has been commemorated on 29 November. During this day, the initiatives of the General Assembly of the United Nations are recalled above all. Since then, the situation of the Palestinian people has not improved. The Palestinian people have been dispossessed of an even greater share of their land and are suffering a situation of apartheid. The most basic human rights are not granted to Palestinians in the occupied territories or the Gaza Strip. The authorities continually demonstrate their aggression towards the Palestinian population and anyone who dares to question Israel's settlement policy. Recently, several Palestinian political prisoners had conducted a hunger strike to protest detention without trial and ill-treatment. The situation is catastrophic and requires strong action. This situation continues, in particular because the State of Israel remains unpunished. There is no reaction from governments, especially European governments, including the Belgian government. There is a lack of consideration for the Palestinian people, whose status or existence in a recognized State is not even recognized. Madam Minister, do you intend to recognise the Palestinian state, especially since, in your majority, I understand that some political groups would support this initiative? What's wrong? Why are we still waiting? Above all, do you intend to put in place sanctions against Israel's settlement policy in violation of international law and the law of the Palestinian people? Finally, do you intend to call for the release of Palestinian political prisoners who are arbitrarily imprisoned and who are in unacceptable situations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic646x.u4	Madam President, Minister, 29 November was the International Solidarity Day with the Palestinian People. This year, too, this date remains important because the situation of the Palestinian people seems to be becoming increasingly difficult. The repression in May 2021 led to new arrests of a large number of Palestinian opponents and ordinary citizens. According to the Palestinian Commission for Prisoners and Ex-convicts, 4,600 Palestinians are currently locked up in Israeli prisons, including 200 minors. Every year between 500 and 700 Palestinian children are tried. Palestinian children in Israeli prisons suffer from inhuman detention conditions. They suffer from a lack of food and hygiene, overcrowding and medical neglect. Moreover, they do not have family visits, education or access to psychological assistance. They are regularly imprisoned with adults and often subjected to verbal violence, beatings, isolation, sexual harassment and collective punishment. Among the Palestinian prisoners there are currently 550 sick, 200 of whom often need urgent medical care because they suffer from chronic diseases. In recent years, 70 prisoners have died due to medical negligence. Several Palestinian prisoners have gone on hunger strike to protest against this abuse. Mr Fasfous has just been released after refusing to eat 131 days, along with five other Palestinians. Such cases of detention without charge and without trial for long periods are not uncommon. The Israeli occupying authorities continue to pursue a policy of administrative detention against Palestinians, robbing them of their freedom and holding them in occupying prisons, without being brought to justice, without the accusations being made against them and without their lawyers being given access to the evidence. That is why I have the following questions, Madam Secretary. What steps do you intend to take to ensure that the Israeli state puts an end to the violation of human rights, including in prisons this time? What actions do you intend to take to protest against and put an end to the imprisonment of minors and their trial by military courts? What measures do you intend to take to force the State of Israel to stop bringing prisoners into administrative detention and to put an end to the mass detention of people who have not yet committed crimes, but who are legally opposed to the occupation that has been going on for 54 years?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic646x.u5	Minister, during the discussion of your general policy note, you presented the government's progress on differentiation policy. Of course, I welcome the work done and I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Minister of Economy, Pierre-Yves Dermagne, for having been one of the workers' ankles. It should be noted that your department will be responsible for coordinating this agreement. So it is in this sense that I have a few more questions to ask you. Could the work and implementation planning of this agreement be summarized? In summary, what will be the timetable? What common messages will be drawn up at European Union level and with which Allied States? The question of like-minded states was raised earlier. What are the contacts and/or initiatives taken in this direction? How do you intend to do this? Will you take the initiative to write to all European countries to see who are working on common messages warning of the consequences on trade with the colonies? With regard to item 5 of the agreement, it is suggested that our country support the implementation of the mandate of Human Rights Council resolution 31/36 concerning the updating of the database of 112 enterprises operating in the settlements. How are you going to give clear instructions for the allocation of funds from the United Nations regular budget to this task? Should we not instead make provision for a specific budget from Belgium to the United Nations if we are to ensure that the budget is actually spent on this rather than taking the risk that it will be paid to the general budget? This is an important question to which I would like, if you will, an answer that is as clear as possible. The link is also made with the European due diligence directive which has not yet come into being and which seems to be delayed, if I have understood correctly. Do you not think that it would therefore be appropriate to move forward on the Belgian law under discussion at our initiative? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic646x.u6	Madam Minister, I have a question that is in line with Mr Ben Accour's questions, in particular on the update of the UN database on settlements. The discussions on this matter are taking place today within the United Nations. As you know, in March 2001, the United Nations Human Rights Council instructed the High Commissioner for Human Rights to establish a database of companies involved in Israeli settlements in the occupied Palestinian territories and to update it annually. The database was eventually published urgently in 2020. However, no update has been made since then. However, the update was an integral part of the mandate of the UN Resolution 31/36. During the discussion of your policy paper, you also explained some of the guidelines on the differentiation agreement reached. The update of the UN database through the UN resolution is an essential part of this. Our country is calling for additional resources for the database. Madam Minister, what concrete measures will the government take to support the High Commissioner in the implementation of her mandate to update the UN database annually? What concrete initiatives will you take within the framework of the Fifth Commission of the United Nations General Assembly to ensure that the necessary resources are allocated in the United Nations' regular budget for 2022 to implement an annual update of the UN database? Are joint actions with like-minded UN Member States planned in this area, both at the level of the UN Human Rights Council in Geneva and at the level of the New York General Assembly? If so, what specific actions are involved? What instructions have been sent to those involved in Geneva and New York for this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic646x.u7	I agree with this debate in the context of the topical and urgent debate. It remains topical as settlement policy continues and continues to be announced, despite all UN resolutions and against all international treaties demanding respect for the pre-1967 borders. Stronger policies are needed and this has also been achieved by the government by broadening and deepening differentiation policies. There has already been enough reference to various measures provided for in the agreement within the government. Now, of course, we are all looking forward to the implementation of this agreement, which must not be delayed. One can show the teeth, but at some point one should also use them. Otherwise, it's just declarations without action. The policy of differentiation that has been pursued so far is not effective. It is therefore necessary to consider how it can be technically strengthened. The proposal for a reversal of the burden of proof in the labelling system is for Israel to prove that products do not come from settlement areas, which means that the burden of control is no longer with us. This is one of the proposals that could be the subject of such an agreement. In what direction are we working today to tighten up the monitoring of labelling? Are we also looking at the way in which other countries exercise that control? Secondly, steps can also be taken with regard to trade policy. In my opinion, differentiation policy is fairly mild and very difficult to control. It is clearer to say that all products from that region cannot be imported. It would also make more sense, given the evolution on the ground: Palestine is like a hole cheese. At some point it is no longer justified to continue working with the settlements in this way. What are your views on this, or on a ban on imports from the settlements? There has already been enough reference to the UN database, and I agree with the questions raised by my colleagues. What specific actions and resources will be provided to update that database, so that it can be determined exactly which companies are operating there and what activities they are carrying out?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic646x.u8	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on 16 November I presented the five main axes of differentiation policy. Since then, a month has passed. You will agree with me that this deadline is too short to assess its implementation. As I informed you on 16 November, Foreign Affairs has played and continues to play a role in coordinating this issue. However, it should be stressed that the conclusions adopted by the working group require the efforts of several ministerial departments, which have operational responsibilities, taking into account their competence. As far as your question on bilateral agreements is concerned, I can confirm that both bilateral treaties from the past and future bilateral agreements apply to the territory of the State of Israel. They therefore do not apply to the territories occupied by Israel since 1967, namely the Golan Heights, the West Bank, East Jerusalem and the Gaza Strip. That view is not new to our country or to you, because we have already talked about it. It comes from international law, which is a cornerstone of our foreign policy. However, the scope of the Treaties was again explicitly confirmed in the conclusions of the Working Group. Since the principle is clearly established, it is up to the various competent administrations to ensure its correct application. As regards the Convention on Social Security and the Convention on the Prevention of Double Taxation, I would ask you to turn to the Ministers of Health, Social Affairs and Finance, respectively. As far as the trade aspect of differentiation is concerned, I already informed you on 16 November that the departments of Economy and Finance have specific responsibilities in the light of their powers. It is therefore up to the Ministers of Economy and Finance to instruct their respective departments to implement this part of the conclusions of our work. If you have any further questions, please contact them. As far as foreign affairs is concerned, I have instructed my service and our diplomatic mission to discuss this with similar European partners. Our permanent representation to the European Union has organised a briefing on this matter with similar EU Member States. France, Sweden, Finland, Spain, Portugal, Luxembourg, Malta and Ireland could be present. Diplomatic consultations are, as you know, a permanent task, so other meetings will undoubtedly follow, both with EU Member States and with the European institutions. At the multilateral level, Belgium continues to pay attention to the implementation of Human Rights Council resolution 3136 of 24 March 2016, which includes the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights database of enterprises operating in the settlements and the occupied Palestinian territories, and actively participates in the exchange of views among member States on this database. Belgium is also closely monitoring the financing of the United Nations database. The principled position of Belgium in the Fifth Committee of the United Nations General Assembly is that each agreed mandate must receive a budget. For 2022, the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights requested a more general budget, including the updating of databases but did not specify which databases were to be updated. In recent contacts with my services, OHCHR explained that the resolution provides for an annual update but added that there is a problem of coordination with the budget. OHCHR also indicated that it was planning an update, in particular because some of the listed companies were no longer active in the economy. The next item is a European initiative on settlements. The European Commission registered the European Citizens' Initiative Ensuring Common Commercial Policy conformity with EU Treations and compliance with international law on 8 September 2021. The initiators ask the Commission to propose legal acts based on the Common Trade Policy to prevent EU legal entities from importing products originating from illegal settlements in occupied territories, or from exporting products to such areas, in order to preserve the integrity of the internal market and not to contribute to or contribute to the maintenance of an illegal situation. The European Commission has committed itself to presenting a legal proposal for legal treatment under the Common Trade Policy, provided that the European Citizens' Initiative can gather 1 million statements of support from at least seven European Member States within the year. Belgium will consult with similar EU Member States on the possible Commission proposal. It is wise to await the Commission's possible initiative and not to make any substantial preliminaries in this respect. In response to the question on the prohibition by Belgium, at national level, of trade with entities illegally established in the occupied territories, it should be made clear that this prohibition is not part of the conclusions reached by the intercabinets working group. Moreover, as you know, trade policy is a common policy of the European Union. With regard to the various projects and initiatives under way at international, European and national level, in relation to a duty of "reasonable diligence" in the field of human rights, Belgium will continue its efforts to promote and strengthen the European commitment on this subject. I recall our position expressed during the consultation on the draft directive on sustainable business governance. Belgium supports a European legislative initiative providing for a horizontal duty of due diligence and a definition of the duty of due diligence of directors, in particular with a view to level playing field and greater legal certainty. We await this text and have communicated it to our interlocutors in the European Union. In general, I believe that there is a need to ensure the coherence of the various initiatives, in particular with the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, in order to ensure that businesses, and in particular SMEs, are not confronted with a patchwork of national and international rules with different obligations to achieve the same objectives. Questions were asked about the settlers. In the framework of the agreement on the deepening of the Belgian policy of differentiation, the possibilities of prohibiting the entry into Belgian territory of settlers who are responsible for violence or incitement to hatred have not been explored. Refusal to enter Belgian territory is a matter for the Office for Foreigners, and therefore for the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration. A person who poses a threat to national security may be denied a visa. My services may have an advisory role with regard to these visa applications. Consular services are provided to Belgians living in Israeli settlements in the occupied Palestinian territories, including East Jerusalem, but from the Belgian Consulate General in Jerusalem, within whose jurisdiction they are located. They cannot therefore address the Belgian Embassy in Tel Aviv, which is competent for Israel. It goes without saying that these Belgians, like any other Belgian national abroad, can request consular assistance. With regard to the question on Belgium's reactions to the announcement of new settlements on 29 October, Belgium signed a communiqué issued by twelve Member States of the European Union denouncing these announcements and asking Israel to reconsider these decisions. In addition to Belgium, the communiqué was signed by Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Italy, Ireland, the Netherlands, Poland, Spain, Sweden and Norway. On 8 December, Belgium joined a new approach led by the United Kingdom to the Israeli Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Colonization policy was one of the priority topics to have been addressed on this occasion. In addition to the United Kingdom and our country, the European Union delegation to Tel Aviv and the embassies of several partners were also present: the Netherlands, Germany, Spain, Sweden, Norway, Denmark, Finland, France and Poland. With regard to the recognition of the Palestinian State by Belgium, it is not on the agenda, even if it is the corollary of our support for the two-State solution. This recognition is more of a question of timing and of the appropriate format to do so. It is also important that it – which would be an important step – has a positive and significant impact on the peace process. As to whether our country intends to take action against Israel because of the policy of occupation, I would like to stress that our policy of differentiation is aimed at distinguishing between Israel on the one hand and illegal settlements on the other. However, our country remains in favour of the identification at European level of all the incentives and disincentives available to the parties to the conflict. There were several questions about the Palestinian prisoners. Belgium's general position on administrative detention is clear. Administrative detention should remain an exceptional measure applied for a limited period of time, taking into account different safeguards, such as the rights of the defence and the right to a fair trial within a reasonable period of time. There are various, authoritative reports that confirm the existence of Israeli practice to try Palestinian underage young people in a military court. However, the number of children in Israeli detention would generally have decreased in recent years. Both Belgium and the EU are concerned about this practice. During the discussions on the latest Israeli reports, the Human Rights Committee, which monitors compliance with the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, expressed concerns about the treatment of children before military courts and made a series of recommendations in this respect. Belgium is very active in the field of children's rights and their protection in conflict situations. We bring this to our bilateral contacts with partners. We stressed this on the occasion of Israel's last universal periodic review in the Human Rights Council. On that occasion, Belgium expressly requested the Israeli authorities to take the necessary measures to ensure that Palestinian children are not exposed to arbitrary arrest and detention and can fully enjoy their rights, in accordance with international human rights standards. As far as prison conditions are concerned, Israel is bound by international obligations under the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, as well as by the torture treaty to which it is a party. In 2016, a number of recommendations were made to Israel by the UN Committee against Torture under the last Convention. These recommendations cover, inter alia, access to medical care, independence from medical examination of persons deprived of their freedom, solitary confinement and other forms of isolation of persons deprived of their freedom, including children, in the policy on hunger strikes of prisoners. The UN Committee against Torture also makes recommendations on children in detention, including on the need to guarantee all legal basic guarantees from the first moment of deprivation of liberty.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic646x.u9	Madam Secretary, the agreement you announced in the Chamber is not meaningless. They are important steps in the right direction. The establishment of a differentiation policy on the legitimate state of Israel, as regards the bilateral treaties between our country and Israel, is important and absolutely necessary. It is equally crucial to try to develop a diplomatic dynamic in this context together with other like-minded countries. Mrs Van Hoof mentioned the reversal of the burden of proof in order to make the control of the origin of goods from Israel more efficient and effective. These are all important steps forward. You are right, of course, that finance and economic affairs will have to guarantee operationalisation. At the same time, coordination lies with Foreign Affairs. Therefore, should operationalisation fail, or if there are any questions or doubts, I am counting on you to urge your colleagues to implement and implement the agreement reached. It is also essential to try to mobilise like-minded countries to support the updating of the UN database of companies operating in the occupied territories. It is very valuable that you have also referred to the citizens' initiative which the European Commission has declared admissible with regard to an import ban on products from Israel. My group believes that this should still be the ultimate objective, because that fits within the logic of a differentiation policy itself. That's not weird at all. The fact that many Members and groups have spoken here today shows how much differentiation policy is at the heart of Parliament. The reason is, of course, that we, all of us, continue to identify strikingly systematic violations of human rights and international law in the region. Moreover, this is happening near the European Union and is a permanent threat to stability in the Middle East. These are a number of logical reasons why this theme continues to concern us. We welcome the agreement you have reached and would like to congratulate you on it. We will, of course, continue to monitor its implementation and operationalisation, including among your colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic646x.u10	Minister, thank you for your full answer. You rightly recalled Belgium's position on the two-State solution. As colonization progresses, I wonder what Palestinian state will be recognized in a few years. That is certainly the reason why we are often debating this issue in this committee. I am pleased to learn that, together with other countries, Belgium has already taken steps and discussions are under way. I am also pleased to hear that it is closely following the updating of the United Nations database. On the other hand, I was happy to be able to intervene in this committee to question you, but you refer me to your colleague, Sammy Mahdi. I will therefore re-ask my questions concerning binational settlers in the Committee on the Interior. The European initiative is a good thing. Indeed, we must be able to force debate at the Commission level, regardless of the views of the Member States. But this should not prevent us from having a debate in this Parliament, particularly in this committee, on the question of banning settlement products. I know that a parliamentary mission is planned soon in the occupied Palestinian territories and in Israel. In my view, this issue of settlement products should be included on the agenda of this mission. Next week, a new family of Al-Shajara should be expelled. I recall here that the evictions of Palestinian families in East Jerusalem caused, as some have said, a "moment of tension" a few months ago. That is why we need a political response that anticipates this kind of "time of tension", and every effort must be made to ensure that international law is respected in the region.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic646x.u11	Madam Minister, I thank you for your answers which, on the whole, do not reflect a new policy of the Belgian Government in relation to the situation in Palestine. In response to my questions about recognition, you say it's a timing question. This situation has been going on for decades. So I don't know what we're still waiting for. Do we need a more catastrophic situation than we do today if we are to take action at some point in time? As far as sanctions are concerned, you say that you differentiate between the settlements and the State of Israel. This is the whole policy of differentiation, which is already quite limited. You have explained today everything that is not yet working in this policy. You therefore separate the settlements of the State of Israel, as if it were innocent of any violation of international law. You began your speech by saying that international law was the cornerstone of your foreign policy. However, you are facing a country condemned by the United Nations with more than sixty resolutions that condemn it for violating international law. If this international law was really a cornerstone of your policy, the least you can do would be to ensure that it is respected. You don't. You continue to maintain normalized relations with Israel, as this country violates international law. So, no, international law is not the cornerstone of your policy, minister! If that were the case, you would pursue another policy towards the State of Israel. In this case, this international law is used with varying geometry depending on the interlocutor. You talked about the situation of the prisoners in response to a question I asked you. You have given your opinion on what to do, but Israel does not care, Madam Minister! I ask you to take a position on this. To tell me that we need a fair trial, we all know that, except that Israel does not respect that. What else do we do besides mention it? In terms of action, there is still nothing! That is quite disappointing on the part of this government.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic646x.u12	Madam Minister, I take note of an answer you have given several times to questions that we have already asked several times. I will not repeat everything that Mr Boukili has just summarized very nicely, but I would like to return to the Palestinian prisoners, if you will excuse me. You have just listed everything that the Israeli state should actually fulfil in order to fulfil its international obligations. You have just listed all the treaties they are violating, but Israel is failing. We notice the same inertia and rhetoric, which is always repeated. For 73 years, international law has been violated and that continues. In the meantime, the occupation regime has invented a new and perverse harassment for the inhabitants of East Jerusalem: they give the children ankle bracelets and actually forbid them to leave their homes on the penalty of huge fines. For example, parents are obliged to be guards of their own children. You can imagine the enormous psychological damage caused by such unheard-of malpractice to Palestinian families, who want to collectively remove the apartheid state of Israel from Jerusalem. It seems, however, that it does not matter how criminal the situation becomes. As always, real concrete measures are reserved for our so-called rivals and countries that refuse to submit to the West and the rules-based international order and our so-called allies go free. I note that my colleagues have quoted a great deal about differentiation, non-recognition of the Palestinian state, brutalisation and the daily violence imposed on the Palestinians in the occupied territories. I also note that the organisation of a mission is not necessary to take concrete measures at this stage and that hearings on the resolutions which are still before us, and which will still be very interesting, do not eliminate the fact that our country could take action now, even bilaterally. We don't have to wait for the like-minded states. One can of course wait until everything is colonized and annexed, but I suggest not to do so. I would advise both colleagues and you, Madam Secretary, to go to hell. Practice what you preach: if international law is indeed a cornerstone of this government's policy, please start acting on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic646x.u13	Minister, thank you for all these answers. Like other colleagues, I note with great satisfaction the steps that have been taken. Little by little, we are moving in the direction of the majority agreement which binds us and below which we cannot be found. I would like these steps to accelerate at the same pace as the acceleration of colonization and human rights violations in the Palestinian territories. From this point of view, a specific budget has to be made available to the United Nations for the updating of the list of enterprises working in the colonies. This is the shortest way to achieve this objective, which I imagine we all share. Let's continue these steps. Let us speed up the pace with European countries wishing to move in the same direction. Let's do it quickly because one day it'll be too late. The policies of fait accompli are legion. The question remains today how it would be possible to conceive a Palestinian State in view of the scale of colonization. We will not be able to regret a situation of fact if we have not contributed correctly to fight against its implementation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic646x.u14	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. We know that these discussions about the UN database are going on in New York. It is, of course, important for Belgium, in implementing the agreement on differentiation, to show a certain proactivity in the debates, so that part of the budget, or at least a specific budget, is provided for a database. Otherwise, this is gonna be a problem. The database is very important for the implementation of the measures on differentiation. At the same time, I would also like to take this opportunity to draw your attention to a report from the Don't Buy into Occupation Coalition. This is a cooperation of 25 organisations in Palestine, Belgium, France, Ireland, the Netherlands, Norway, Spain and the United Kingdom. They have investigated financial relations between companies active in the illegal Israeli settlements in occupied Palestinian territory and European financial institutions. This study shows that BNP Paribas Fortis, whose federal government is the largest shareholder, is the largest European creditor of companies active in the illegal settlement industry. In addition, the bank is also the 12th largest European investor in surveillance activities, companies that destroy Palestinian houses and even in arms producers. I also think it is important for the federal government to do something about this. That's not in the differentiation agreement. But if this bank does not change its policy, it will also partly fade away the rest of the measures of the agreement that has been concluded. I have already mentioned this to your colleague, Minister Van Peteghem, but it would also be good if you could see to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic646x.u15	Madam Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive answer, which I will certainly read. You quoted those countries very quickly. It is very interesting to see which states are similar in this respect to see how we can move forward. At some point we will have to do something. Together we stand . Parliament, the government and certain EU Member States must, in addition to diplomacy, ensure that specific measures are taken. I believe that certain sanctions do not really work with regard to individuals. They are sending out a signal, but in order to get a real concrete response on the ground, I believe that it is necessary for something to happen economically. I believe that Member States, and especially third countries, will react more strongly when they find that they are experiencing economic decline and are beginning to mortify the population. I believe that we can mean something in terms of differentiation policy, including in terms of trade policy. I hope that steps can be taken forward with the like-minded EU Member States, so that people feel that Belgium and certain EU Member States do not agree to continue in this way. You do indeed have the coordinating authority. We will also follow this up in Parliament, with hearings and with a visit on the ground. I hope that progress will be made in the meantime, because that is absolutely necessary. The rights of the Palestinians are absolutely being violated. I do not think we need any further resolutions to prove that. Now action is needed in particular. I hope it will be there next year. In any case, we will support you in the actions you are already taking today. We can say that the deepening and widening of the differentiation policy has been the most concrete action for a long time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic646x.u16	Madam Minister, we have seen a number of developments since my question was tabled. For example, more and more Russian troops are gathering at the Ukrainian border and many experts are also wondering whether Moscow is planning a raid or not. Our eastern partners, NATO and the United States are taking the threat seriously. At the end of last week, Russia also drew up a kind of wishlist, in which it asked NATO to withdraw from Eastern Europe and also from Ukraine and the Caucasus. They are asking for a Russian veto in NATO to vote against membership of Ukraine and Georgia. There were also statements by Russian President Putin about Russian-speaking minorities in Eastern Ukraine. Madam Secretary, the problematic events are therefore piling up. First of all, how does the federal government view the crisis? What position does the government take at European level and at NATO level? Secondly, NATO itself is threatening strong political and economic action if Russia launches a winter offensive against Ukraine. Do you think that is enough, or are you asking for a more active role to be played in Ukraine, should there be such a confrontation? What means does our country intend to provide to defend Ukraine's eastern flank? Will account also be taken of the worsening of the situation in the event of our participation in Baltic Air Police and the Enhanced Forward Presence? If so, how is this taken into account? Finally, we are very dependent on Russian gas, not necessarily directly but indirectly through our neighbouring countries which are supplied with Russian gas, after which the gas comes to us. What impact could a possible direct confrontation have on our country's energy supply?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic646x.u17	Minister, my question is a few days old and since then there have been some developments. On December 7, 2021, an exchange took place between US President Joe Biden and his Russian counterpart, Vladimir Putin. This exchange took place because of the speculation, still current and present, about Russian military intentions in Ukraine. According to a White House statement, Joe Biden informed Vladimir Putin that Russia would face severe sanctions, including economic sanctions, in the event of military escalation in Ukraine. The US President also expressed the deep concern of the United States and its allies at the accumulation of Russian troops on the border with Ukraine. I quote the US President: "The two presidents have instructed their teams to follow up on the exchange and the US will do so in close cooperation and coordination with its allies and partners". Vladimir Putin replied that responsibility should not be rejected on Russia's shoulders. The Russian President denounced the growing military potential of NATO at Russia's borders linked to its support for Ukraine and called for guarantees on the non-enlargement of the Alliance to the East. Vladimir Putin also proposed to Joe Biden to lift all retaliatory measures against the diplomatic missions of their two countries that have been taken in recent months in full tension between the United States and Russia. Madam Minister, I would therefore like to ask you about this, especially since the European Union has also met since then. According to your information, what is the status of discussions at NATO level on extending its boundaries to Ukraine and Georgia? More broadly, what is its strategy of potential enlargement vis-à-vis the countries which have belonged, until the fall of the Berlin Wall and the collapse of the Soviet communist empire? What is NATO's strategy in relation to those countries that, in addition to Georgia and Ukraine, could be part of NATO's leadership in the coming years? What is Belgium's position on this? Is there a European Union position on a possible enlargement of NATO to the borders that I have just recalled? Is it possible to detail this common position if it exists? What is Belgium's position on the possible exclusion of Russia from the system of exchange of information (SWIFT) as recommended by a resolution voted by a large majority in the European Parliament in April 2021? This is all the more important because SWIFT, the financial information exchange system, is located in Belgium. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic646x.u18	Madam Minister, I also have a number of questions about the consequences of the escalation on the eastern borders of Ukraine, both on the Russian side and on the Ukrainian side, and the reaction of NATO and the United States, in particular with economic, financial and political measures. President Biden talked at some point about tough economic and other measures. The question is how the European Union will react to this. Mrs von der Leyen indicated that she wanted to punish Russia firmly if it continues to undermine Ukraine or other EU neighbours. Of course, Russia does not tolerate the arrival at its borders of EU Member States or the danger that countries there will join NATO. They are resisting this by increasing the pressure at the borders. It's very clear that this is their motive. That is also clear from Putin's response to Biden. He is asking for guarantees that there will be no expansion of NATO. Nor can this be done under NATO's rules, because no Member State can be included which has a conflict within its borders. In this way, Russia is playing the game in an unauthorized way. States in which there is a conflict because of their actions cannot become a Member State of NATO. Madam Secretary, how should we respond to that? I note that, following the recent European Councils last Thursday and Friday, there has been a certain weakening of the position of the European Union. We were talking first about massive consequences and heavy costs, now we are talking about coordinated limited measures in any further military aggression against Ukraine. How are we supposed to understand that? Has there been a weakening because Putin has clearly indicated that he does not like the further NATO enlargement? What sanctions are actually imposed by the European Union? In what way do we keep the dialogue with Russia going, while in the meantime we are working on Ukraine's dossier?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic646x.u19	Minister, our relations with Russia have been at the worst since the end of the cold war. Putin sees himself and is increasingly autocratic. It violates both human rights in its own territory and international law. It has already occupied and already occupies territories in three third countries. Today, it is intended to make war threats invoking alleged threats of genocide or supposed NATO threats to Russia, which obviously never originated from NATO at any point in its history. So these are imaginary threats. On the other hand, these are very clear threats on his side, which are illustrated by the hundreds of thousands of heavily armed soldiers on the Ukrainian border. How can we avoid this act of war and the invasion of Ukraine that it threatens to carry out? As a reminder, Mr Putin's threats must always be taken very seriously. How can we ensure that our reaction is sufficiently dissuasive to prevent this war? I hear today that the Americans and Europeans are coordinating. That's very good. On the other hand, our answer does not seem to me to be up to the threat, and that worries me. I can understand that close military cooperation with Ukraine and military support for Ukraine have been excluded so that it can defend itself – I would like to be clarified. Compared to the sanctions that were at the beginning massive – they are now coordinated – it is no longer clear what would be in a position to deter Vladimir Putin from invading Ukraine. I would like this not to be the story of an increasingly announced failure with regard to international stability, international law and the behaviour of autocrats like Putin, Xi Jinping or Erdogan, who increasingly violate international law and wage war unilaterally. I would have liked to hear from you, minister, about your perception of this threat – how seriously do you take it? – and on the means that you think are most appropriate to stem this threat, while preserving Ukraine's freedom to associate with other countries, both politically and internally through NATO. In fact, it seems to me extremely important that a third country does not dictate to another country which association or union of countries it may belong to. He must be able to remain free of his movements in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic646x.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, the issue of Ukraine is at the centre of the day. The conflict in eastern Ukraine and the annexation of Crimea by the Russian Federation continue to upset our eastern neighbourhood and undermine our relations with Russia. Our country remains attentive to developments on the border with Russia, particularly the parking of a large number of Russian troops near Ukraine since the beginning of November. We also reiterate our commitment to the territorial integrity and sovereignty of Ukraine. This message is regularly shared with Ukraine, as in my recent meetings with my counterpart in mid-November on the margins of the Foreign Affairs Council, but also in early December at the NATO Foreign Ministers meeting in Riga. This message is also shared among the Heads of State and Government, since the Prime Minister met with President Zelensky last week. Our country continues to advocate for maintaining the dual approach towards Russia. It is considered that a political dialogue with Moscow remains essential in order to clarify Russian intentions, but also to call for de-escalation in the region. On the other hand, Western countries must make clear the price Moscow would pay in the event of an attack and prepare for all scenarios. These developments have been discussed extensively in recent weeks, both within NATO and at European level. The European Council of 16 December adopted the conclusions on Ukraine which stress the need to de-escalate tensions, while cautioning Russia about the massive consequences of Ukraine's military aggression. The Council reiterates its support for Ukraine and encourages diplomatic efforts to resolve this crisis. At the Foreign Affairs Council on 13 December 2021, we agreed that in the event of aggression or malicious action, a strong response could be made through additional EU sanctions. The United Kingdom shares this position and has argued for internal reflection on sufficiently dissuasive actions. This will require concerted action with our partners such as the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom. The aim is to be able to quickly announce a package of measures with the expected deterrent effect. It would be premature to identify in a nominative manner the economic entities that would participate, if necessary, in new sanctions against Russia. Before I consider that there are no sanctions commensurate with the danger, I believe that the will is to ensure that the reference to these sanctions is sufficiently dissuasive. Doing so in a coordinated manner with partners as important as those I have stated brings weight to the thinking. The conflict in Ukraine has dominated EU-Russia relations since 2014. The financial and economic sanctions imposed at the time and the sanctions against individuals are still renewed every six months or annually. The sanctions have so far prevented further aggression by Russia against Ukraine. Its abolition is linked to the demand for full implementation of the Minsk agreements. It is crucial that there is unity within the EU about our relationship with Russia. Belgium and enlargement continue to uphold the five-pronged principles of 2016, which guarantee a clear and coherent EU policy. The 2021 approach also reflects that approach. It is about reacting, so push back, if Russia violates human rights and international law; control, thus contain, when Russia exerts pressure on the EU and other countries, such as through cyber attacks and disinformation; and, finally, enter into dialogue or engagement when it comes to issues of mutual interest, both bilaterally and multilaterally. NATO also remains vigilant for the increase in Russian military pressure. Initiatives have been taken to improve common understanding of the situation and precautionary measures are being considered. The aim is to protect the allies on the east flank of the alliance and to see how Ukraine, a genuine NATO partner, can be supported. That said, NATO is a defence alliance that does not threaten Russia if it does not commit aggression. I repeat that our priorities are dialogue, transparency and de-escalation. Belgium uses this nuanced approach out of caution, in order not to send out unwanted strategic signals that could lead to an escalation. Mr Dallemagne, that does not mean that the situation is not taken extremely seriously. And perhaps it is because we take it extremely seriously that we are very attentive to the words we use and to the things we do. NATO must also further examine how it can act as a deterrent to influence the Russian decision-making process towards de-escalation. We therefore call for cautious strategic communication and a dual approach towards Russia, which is betrayal plus dialogue and intense diplomatic action. The distinction between an ally in accordance with Article 5 and a partner should be maintained. In this case, Ukraine is considered an enhanced opportunities partner. With regard to the means that our country can and will make available to strengthen eastern flanking defence, it is customary for any adjustments to be coordinated within NATO only if necessary. Since 2014, NATO has intensified political dialogue and cooperation with Ukraine, notably through the so-called Comprehensive Assistance Package (CAP), which was launched in 2016. CAP provides support through institutional capacity building. Co-operations focus on medical rehabilitation, building resilience to hybrid threats, civil emergency plans, command control, communications, information technology, cyber defence, logistics and standardization. NATO and Ukraine have also strengthened their maritime security cooperation in the Black Sea through exercises, port visits and information sharing. Since 2020, Ukraine has enjoyed the status of Enhanced Opportunities Partner, which gives new impetus to cooperation and promotes greater interoperability, including through joint exercises and training to improve situational awareness. Ukraine makes no secret that it has the ambition to join both NATO and the EU. It is clear that Ukraine's accession to NATO for President Putin is a dark red line. The unusual gradual military buildup on Russian territory at the borders with Ukraine last November is an answer to that. The building of troops is accompanied by an increased rhetoric about a possible significant invasion of Russia in Ukraine. NATO has an open-door membership policy. The Allies respect the decisions taken at the Bucharest Summit in 2008, recognizing Ukraine's desire to join NATO, while stressing the reforms still necessary before embarking on an accession procedure as such. This policy was reiterated in the communiqué of the Brussels summit last June. However, the decision to invite a country to join the Alliance is of a political nature and falls within the purview of the North Atlantic Council on the basis of a consensus among the Allies. At the same time, we expect Ukraine to continue its reform work, consolidate its democratic institutions with a view to strengthening the rule of law and develop its defence capabilities in accordance with NATO standards. Belgium is determined to support it in the reforms necessary for its Euro-Atlantic aspirations. Mr. Cogolati had also asked a question about the OSCE. The organization is constantly working at three levels to ensure that the Minsk Agreements are fully respected. First, the Trilateral Contact Group (TCG) is designated by the Minsk Agreements to oversee its implementation. It is composed of representatives of Ukraine, Russia and the OSCE and acts as a mediator between the two parties to the conflict and meets every 15 days. It also provides direct dialogue between Russia, Ukraine and representatives of areas controlled by non-governmental entities. Secondly, the special monitoring mission forms the eyes and ears of the international community on the spot. It is responsible for monitoring compliance with the Minsk Accords in the Donbass. Violations such as the use of weapons prohibited by the Minsk Agreements are reported in daily and weekly reports. The Special Monitoring Mission (SMM) has observation drones, patrols and cameras. Thirdly, the Permanent Council and the Forum for Security Cooperation – both OSCE decision-making bodies – discuss the situation in Ukraine every week. EU Member States speak with one voice within the OSCE. Belgium invariably associates itself with these declarations, which stress the essential nature of compliance with the Minsk Agreements. Russia continued to obstruct the OSCE negotiations and refused to see itself as a party to the conflict until today. Since this autumn, Ukraine started using the Turkish Bayraktardrone in the Donetsk Basin and also set up new trenches. So the situation is not evolving positively. In the event of an open military confrontation, it cannot be excluded that Russia will leverage its gas supply to Europe, with the risk of losing its credibility as a reliable supplier in the eyes of both Europe and the rest of its customers. I am not convinced that Russia is already a truly credible and reliable supplier. However, only 3% of the gas consumed in Belgium comes directly from Russian imports. This arrives in the form of LNG in the terminal of Zeebrugge. This applies to Belgium, but it is much more than that for the rest of Europe. The lack of supply to EU countries heavily dependent on Russian gas, such as Finland, the Baltic States, Slovakia, Bulgaria, Croatia, the Czech Republic, Austria and Greece, would pressure reserves and force less dependent countries to share part of their supply. We could therefore refer to an indirect effect which is difficult to quantify because ex post gas flows are calculated on a quarterly basis, with stock management as a reference point and not direct sales by suppliers. We already know that there is a gas jump at supplier level, a quarter less than last year. Appropriate responses should be found if there is no open confrontation but if tensions around the eastern borders re-emerg, as was the case with the interruption of Russian gas supply to Moldova at the end of October. The EU is addressing this issue, and I myself have proposed that we also look more closely at the geopolitics of energy. This was done before the meeting of the Council of the European Union on 13 December, in the presence of Mr Birol, the Executive Director of the International Energy Agency.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic646x.u21	Madam Secretary, thank you for your comprehensive answer. In my view, two concepts were central, one political dialogue and the other de-escalation. As far as political dialogue with Russia is concerned, I fully agree with the need to preserve it. However, the extent to which there is still a dialogue may be questioned. Anyway, that must be the starting point. However, de-escalation is also important. I agree with this, too. I am only afraid that President Putin will cite as the least reason for the European Union's choice of words or other matters as a reason to go a step further each time. I think he challenges a lot of times and thus goes one step further and further. As far as the European Union's attitude is concerned, it is indeed very important that we act in a coordinated manner, both within NATO and within the European Union itself. I think that President Putin would not rather have the European Union torn apart by everything that is happening. That is why it is important that we continue to act as one block. I have also understood from your reply that, if action were needed, this would be organised by NATO cooperation. As far as energy supply is concerned, our own gas imports from Russia are rather limited, as you yourself said. However, this is not the case for other Member States. However, we are all very closely linked in terms of energy supply. That is why I would like to call even more for adequate security of supply in Belgium, with everything that is currently happening in Ukraine. I know I shouldn't convince you of that, Madam Secretary, but other members of this government might. Keeping the two youngest nuclear power stations open becomes even more important when we look at this more in this international context.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic646x.u22	Minister, thank you for your answers. I believe that, since Russia's annexation of Crimea in 2014, the international community, in particular the European Union, has seized the opportunity to economically punish Russia, the relatives of Vladimir Putin's regime. But in the end, it only handicapped Russia, and insufficiently restrained Russian ambitions for expansion, malice, cyberattacks. These sanctions have been inoperative, to such an extent that they have finally brought Russia closer to China. We can therefore be concerned about whether it is not time, as you have indicated, to have a stronger position, within the framework of a defence of our interests, without sacrificing our values. You also recalled that NATO is an institution that aims to defend, and therefore does not aim to attack. Ukraine is currently not part of NATO. It may one day be part of NATO, depending on its own autonomy and NATO's own rules of autonomy. But if there is an attack by Russia on Ukraine, there will indeed be, if I have understood correctly, a positioning of NATO, but also a positioning of the European Union, on sanctions that would be more important. You did not reply to me about the European Parliament's resolution to withdraw Russia from the SWIFT financial information exchange system. I understand you weren't answering me at this point. I could have asked if we could not also take as a sanction the end of the conversion of the rouble into foreign currency, at least into US and European currencies. I could also have asked whether, for example, the North Stream 2, a pipeline that potentially provides 55 billion cubic metres of gas, or two thirds of German consumption, would not give rise to sanctions either. I know Angela Merkel was opposed at the time. The new government made up of German socio-democrats, liberals and ecologists may have another position. I think it is very important to know this, so that there is strong unanimity within the EU. I would also like to say, with regard to gas in a more general way, that Vladimir Putin is playing a sort of poker game here today, but he must know that the European Union has begun a transition to zero carbon by 2050. Putin, like others, has to manage the world on the basis of hydrocarbons and is therefore not as powerful as it seems. Russia's interests, like all those who supply both oil and gas, will be to compromise and work with those who receive gas and oil but who will now consume more sustainably, as evidenced by the serious investment plans that the national governments, but also the European Union, have launched for the next few years.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic646x.u23	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. Everyone is clearly on edge, NATO and the European Union. Russia is being very openly aggressive, but in the meantime efforts are being made to de-escalate and keep the dialogue going. It is very clear that if further steps are taken by Russia, NATO will act and the European Union will follow heavier sanctions. I understand that from the discussions over the last few weeks. We also need to maintain that line, because failure to respond is no longer an option when further steps are taken. More severe sanctions are, of course, necessary. But NATO must also take steps beyond de-escalation, dialogue and transparency. The events in Crimea were one step too far. We cannot accept such aggression and threat at our borders, even though we must clearly focus on dialogue, de-escalation and transparency, as it is called in diplomatic terms. Let's hope that works. In any case, we must use the right means when we take another step further.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic646x.u24	Minister, thank you for your answers. You're right, Europeans are very worried. The United States is concerned as well as the other countries you mentioned. The question is whether the answer that has been given so far is commensurate with this concern. I can tell you I'm not reassured. You tell us that the countries must announce "undoubtedly the price that Moscow will have to pay in case of an attack". We have not yet done so, and Moscow is not going to wait forever for a clear strategy to be taken in the face of this aggression and for the price to be declared. I think it is very urgent that we know clearly what the answer will be. You have referred mainly to sanctions in the economic sphere and against individuals. Mr Lacroix is right: it does not work. This does not work for dictators who want to conquer new territories. This has been seen previously with regard to Russia, Turkey or others. The rouble has lost half its value in ten years. Inflation is now around 10% in Moscow. The Russian population suffers from this policy of Mr Putin. But Mr Putin has nothing to do with this because he knows that this is probably not the case in history. Therefore, he intends to continue to carry out his new conquests of territories. I think we need to better protect these countries, our credibility and our security. Military cooperation and political and other sanctions must be considered. We must quickly establish the clarity as to whether these measures will be able to prevent Putin's new will to invade territories that are not his own or to regulate what is going to happen at the borders of third countries, which would in some way become his vassals. It is a new way of seeing international relations on the part of Russia that we want to respond to the wishes of the Kremlin. This is totally unacceptable, it is not a way of conceiving the world of tomorrow. Unfortunately, some new tyrants are gradually taking us on this path. It is very important that we bear in mind that what we will put on the table will have to live up to our concerns, otherwise we will run into new failures in conflict prevention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic646x.u25	Madam Minister, a great deal has happened since I submitted my question on the Northern Ireland Protocol. I don't have to explain to you what it's about. Not so long ago there was talk that the United Kingdom would activate the famous Article 16 of the Northern Ireland Protocol. The European Union has so far been very patient with regard to the United Kingdom. I do not need to explain to you that it has had a lot of ground to establish that protocol for the sake of the Brexit. Any letter or comma that is changed to it may give rise to a revival of violence, as we unfortunately saw years ago. According to the latest reports, the negotiations on the Northern Ireland Protocol would be lifted over the New Year. In the field of medicines, however, amendments to the protocol could be made. Firstly, what position does Belgium take? Does Belgium, for example, consider that amendments can be made to the protocol? Pacta sunt servanda: the protocol is not so old, so it would be strange and unusual if we were to make changes to it already. Should there be any European sanctions? What steps should the European Union take? A new Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs was appointed in the United Kingdom today in place of Mr Frost, in particular Mrs Truss. Could this affect the negotiations on the Northern Ireland Protocol? Finally, the United Kingdom always wanted the role of the Court of Justice of the European Union to be minimized, not even to play a role, but it would now be recalled. Rather, it would be argued that the court should not make final decisions. Do you have any more information about that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic646x.u26	Ms Van Bossuyt, Belgium, like the other EU Member States in the European Council, supports the efforts and proposals of European Commissioner Sefcovic to find a negotiated solution with the UK to some specific and concrete problems in the application of the Protocol. The proposals show a very constructive attitude and a far-reaching flexibility of the EU to reduce the administrative burden on the UK and to facilitate the smooth supply of Northern Ireland with goods from the rest of the UK. It is essentially a question of implementation. A change by the EU to the current general rules on the certification of medicinal products due to problems arising in the EU itself will also help solve a problem in Northern Ireland. The proposals remain faithful to the design and terms of the protocol itself. This should not be allowed to happen, as the consequences could be harmful to the EU in several ways. I invite the UK Government to seize the opportunity offered by Commissioner Sefcovic to the UK on behalf of the EU to address the few concrete concerns that may exist in the context of the application of the Protocol. I note, however, that the British Prime Minister still wants to return to the fundamental concept of the protocol. The British Prime Minister is apparently still considering suspending or terminating the application of the Protocol in a far-reaching and unilateral manner, for example on the basis of Article 16 of the Protocol, if the EU does not agree. In such a scenario, the EU must provide for a proportionate and prompt defence with determination and unity. Indeed, it is not acceptable that the further relationship between the EU and the UK should allow a precedent whereby one of the parties would deny the commitment given, because it is no longer considered politically appropriate. Moreover, the suspension of the Protocol would threaten the integrity of the customs union and the internal market. In concrete terms, in such a scenario, the response to be given will be determined by the Commission and the Member States. Several provisions of the agreements with the United Kingdom may be implemented in the framework of such a strong and proportionate reaction, either by safeguard measures or by suspension of certain parts of the agreement. I don't want to assume that scenario. As I have already said, we want to avoid that. This is separate from the infringement procedure, which the EU started earlier this year, but which was suspended in order to give a negotiated solution based on Commissioner Sefcovic's proposals a chance. Last but not least, I have also heard the news that David Frost, who was on the British side in charge of the negotiations, has resigned because of internal disagreements in the government. The file will now be managed by Secretary of State Liz Truss. I met her; she has a good knowledge of trade, thanks to her previous jobs. The change does not change our approach. We will have to see if that changes the British attitude.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic646x.u27	Madam Secretary, I agree with your answer. I still regret the fact that the British decided to leave the European Union by referendum, but that is a democratic decision and we must respect it. Long negotiations followed, with a lot of freshening and weighing, under Michel Barnier's expert leadership, he did very well to reach an agreement that both parties could agree to. If we were to give the signal that we could just let a year go by and re-negotiate, that would put everything at risk. One can still see what can be better done about the implementation procedures, because there are certainly things that cannot be foreseen in advance, which now leads to certain findings. However, the foundations of this agreement must not be renegotiated. The United Kingdom remains an important trading partner for us anyway; so maintaining good relations with that country is, and remains, important, but I do not think that is the case with the discussion on the protocol on Northern Ireland.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic646x.u28	Minister, I updated my question somewhat because it was prior to the debate on the policy note. She was talking about the 12th inter-ministerial WTO conference to be held on November 30th. This was a major step forward on a possible temporary waiver of intellectual property rights in and universal access to vaccines. The conference has since been cancelled for health reasons, which would be rather nasty if it were not so tragic. Meanwhile, by mid-December, only 7.6 per cent of the population in low-income countries had received at least one dose of covid vaccine. The Covax system, on the other hand, struggles to achieve its objectives, while the rich countries have launched the booster phase for their population in the face of the arrival of the omicron variant. Meanwhile, Pfizer and Moderna have combined profits valued at $65,000 per minute, or $1,000 per second, and delivered less than 1% of their doses to low-income countries. Another internal source of Pfizer shows that the profits due to the covid-19 vaccine amount to $36 billion by 2021, which represents the greatest profit ever made for a drug in history! In the face of these glaring inequalities, more and more countries are rallying to ask for the temporary lifting of patents on vaccines and other technologies to combat covid, even within Europe, which is still blocking. Still in mid-December, the Director General of the WTO said that an agreement on intellectual property rights seemed close, but that it seemed – I quote – "that there was an orchestrated effort to block the success of the company." Minister, what is Belgium's position within Europe on the temporary lifting of patents? Is an agreement in the WTO envisaged in the coming weeks? Thank you already for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic646x.u29	Madam President, Minister, on Monday 29 November 2021 you would have participated in a meeting of European Trade Ministers in preparation for the planned World Trade Organisation meeting in Geneva from 30 November 2021 to 3 December 2021. That WTO meeting was, ironically, postponed because of the epidemiological situation at the time. The meeting would re-examine the TRIPS Waiver. The proposal is widely supported in order to provide for a temporary suspension of intellectual property rights and thus to be able to spread the vaccine much faster. Both the Belgian Government and the European Commission have been the most rabid opponents of the demands of South Africa and India for over a year now, supported by an overwhelming majority of countries on the planet and by numerous medical and human rights organisations, North-South associations, trade unions and other players in global civil society, to lift the patents for covid vaccines. This would finally put an end to the scandalous and criminal vaccine apartheid, which has resulted in 55% of the population being vaccinated in rich countries, whereas in low-income countries it is barely 1%. In other words, the population of the global South is being handed over without mercy to a pandemic that is raging through the active action of rich countries, including our country, and the vaccine producers themselves. As many have predicted, this will have disastrous consequences not only for the global South but also for us, the rich West. As long as the majority of humanity is not vaccinated, the virus continues to mutate. Not that long ago, that prophecy came true. A new and much more contagious variant has been discovered in South Africa. The variant will have Europe and also our country under the spell. The Netherlands recently introduced a hard lockdown due to the fear of the omikron variant. This is, among other things, the result of the stubborn refusal of our government and the European Commission, unfortunately, to put public health, even in Belgium and Europe, above the profit of multinationals and private investors. Madam Minister, that is why I have the following question for you. At the meeting of the European Trade Ministers in preparation for the WTO summit, did you change Belgium's position and advocated the TRIPS waiver? What position do you or the current government take? Has the European Union already changed its position on this matter? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic646x.u30	Madam President, honourable Members of Parliament, as you know, it was decided to postpone the 12th Ministerial Conference of the World Trade Organisation following restrictions on entry. The conference will therefore take place in a few months' time. Despite this postponement, the negotiation process continues, including on the trade and health side of the pandemic. For Belgium, it is crucial that the WTO, which is the backbone of the rules-based multilateral trading system, contribute to the fight against the current pandemic and future pandemics. In the run-up to the Ministerial Conference, bilateral discussions and limited talks between the European Union and other key actors, such as the United States, India or South Africa, had intensified with a view to finding solutions that would address current concerns, such as the use of existing flexibilities under the Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights. My services and I have also stressed the importance of reaching agreement on this agenda through constructive bilateral discussions with key stakeholders. We continue to believe that a holistic approach is needed because the discussion on TRIPS is only one element of the whole. Indeed, the removal of restrictions on the export of vaccine components and the improvement of supply chain mechanisms are also crucial and this is what the European Union wants to achieve in Geneva with proposals and avenues for compromise, in particular on the use of compulsory licences. Despite the urgency, we can only see that some parties continue to refuse to take leadership and to shoulder their responsibilities under a global response from the WTO to these and future crises. Other parties also seem to block any attempt at compromise, which makes it difficult to find a solution. The Director-General of the WTO wants to maintain the momentum that existed at the end of November ahead of the MC12 and try to reach an agreement by the end of February. I believe that it must indeed be possible to achieve results, even without necessarily waiting for the ministerial conference, which, I repeat, has been postponed for the time being until the first week of March and has not been cancelled. This is the aim of the European Trade Commissioner Valdis Dombrovskis' contact with important partners in the last week. Belgium therefore strongly urges that the current state of urgency be maintained and calls on the Commission to continue its leading role in the discussion with a view to reaching a rapid agreement. I would like to stress that even if we do not reach an agreement, this does not prevent us from using the current regime and working together with several African countries to develop production capacities there, as we are already doing. For example, we work with Rwanda to develop production capacity and help the country to create a regulatory framework. Not only do we need the place to build capacity, but we also need a legal framework for it. Equally important is that exports of components are never hindered. We saw him at the beginning of the crisis. Europe has exported an extremely large quantity of vaccines and has continued to do so, while other countries have completely stopped exports and our population is not yet fully vaccinated, as is still the case. It has also been found that at times these same countries have made it more difficult for the basic elements we need to produce our own vaccines to reach their destination, which has, of course, created great difficulties. There is therefore a whole series of points on which to work to facilitate production; this is not limited to the question of waiver. Having said that, as I was able to say yesterday in a meeting we had at European level, the European Commission is trying to find a compromise. She wets her jersey to move forward in discussions about the World Trade Organization. Limiting the discussion to TRIPS-waiver and thus to this specific element while there are many others who are already playing or who can play otherwise would be a mistake.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic646x.u31	Minister, thank you for your detailed response and for the doors that are clearly left open at this stage. You are absolutely right to insist on two things. First, the lifting of patents is only one aspect of the decisions that must be taken to strengthen our capacity to deliver the vaccine to as many people as possible on the planet. Secondly, it must be stressed that Europe plays an important role in sharing vaccines. This is particularly the case for Belgium, which plays its role largely in the VOCAX system. However, even if the issue of patents is one of many issues, one must succeed. We're already a year behind on this issue. I would point out that the WTO President continues to stress that the ease of use, ease of distribution and affordability of vaccines require, among other things, such an agreement. Several recent analyses show that at the international level, particularly in some countries of the South, about 100 companies are already in a position to manufacture mRNA vaccines. That would give a boost – that's the case! – the production of vaccines. I would remind you again that the European Parliament has already acted three times on its request to lift the patents – not one or two, but three times! Several political families, including the Liberal, have supported this demand on a European scale. Finally, I would like to point out that this requirement is strongly supported by our fellow citizens. It is therefore really time for the federal government as a whole to endorse this position. I hear you're moving towards such an agreement in the coming weeks. I sincerely encourage you in this regard and thank you once again for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic646x.u32	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. I have not really received a clear answer to my simple, clear question about the Belgian Government's position on the lifting of patents. You will not hear me say that all the problems have been solved, because there are other problems that need to be resolved and for which countries from the South must be supported. For example, there are already aid initiatives related to distribution and the creation of production capacity and certain mRNA technology is being passed on. This is all very valuable, but we cannot ignore the fact that on a planetary scale only one third of existing production capacity is still used. That is because, unfortunately, a number of rich Western countries where the pharmaceutical multinationals are located are holding them over their heads. The European Union is doing so and our country is doing so indirectly. This ensures that the virus can continue to mutate and so pharmaceutical companies can continue to make huge profits with, for example, the marketing of boosters in the Western countries. With this tight business plan one can continue to run endlessly vicious circles. As a result, the life and well-being of a large part of humanity is actually exchanged for hard cash. That's a very cynical business plan. Because a lot of time has been lost and everything is dragging on, that business plan is being de facto supported, despite a large part of the world's population. The medical world, as well as many NGOs and trade unions, support that view. Our government has been urged on several occasions, and I read that even in statements of opinion from the Minister for Development Cooperation, so that Belgium would finally make it clear that the European Union and the World Trade Organisation are in favour of the lifting of patents. I have not heard that again, Madam Secretary, and I regret that. You say that you will make additional efforts to ensure that everything evolves in the right direction and that there are several items on the agenda. For example, you are suing that some countries, unlike Belgium, have no longer exported vaccines. That's noble, but that's about charity. The question that is being asked is whether we will actually pursue a coherent policy. At some point, charity has reached its limits and must be converted into solidarity. We support two projects, including those in Rwanda in cooperation with the Pasteur Institute. But of course this also happens with the pardon of the pharmaceutical industry, which has vials filled for vaccines there. What we need is an initiative such as in South Africa, where vaccines are made independent of the pharmaceutical industry. They are regarded as a public good, which should be shared as soon as possible. The ministerial conference has been postponed, but I would have liked to have heard the government's position. I didn't hear that. I take note of that. We will continue to follow the issue. I hope no more time is wasted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic646x.u33	Mr De Maegd said that he was present at the meeting of the Federal Advisory Committee on European Affairs and that he would be grateful if you could answer his question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic646x.u34	I will, Madam President. Mr De Maegd asks about those who are still in prison. On 5 December, the Azerbaijani authorities transferred ten soldiers captured during the 11 November confrontation to the Armenian authorities in exchange for a new map of minefields for the Azerbaijani districts around Nagorno-Karabakh. Previously, before the Sochi Summit on November 26, Baku handed over two Armenian prisoners to Jerevan. Since both the Armenian and Azerbaijani authorities do not provide any information on the number of remaining prisoners, it is difficult, if not impossible, to estimate the number of Armenians still held in Azerbaijani prisons, also in view of the ongoing search for identification of the remains of Armenian soldiers found on the battlefield from the end of the hostilities. On the diplomatic front, Belgium fully supports the efforts of the co-chair of the Minsk Group, the only legitimate international forum for resolving the conflict in Nagorno-Karabakh, and the various initiatives of the European Union, in particular the organisation by the President of the Council of the European Union, Charles Michel, of a meeting with the Azerbaijani President and the Armenian Prime Minister in Brussels on 14 December. President Michel reiterated the European Union's commitment to working closely with Armenia and Azerbaijan to create the conditions for a comprehensive and lasting peace agreement between Baku and Jerevan. Both the Prime Minister of Armenia and the President of Azerbaijan confirmed the intention to comply with the provisions of the Trilateral Agreement of 9 November 2020 and 11 January 2021 as well as the elements discussed with President Putin on 26 November in Sochi. Charles Michel also stressed the importance of resolving the pending humanitarian issue, in particular the return of the last prisoners, in order to contribute to peace. In this area, he confirmed the EU's readiness to contribute to the peace process by providing European support for mine clearance, reconstruction and rehabilitation of all areas affected by the conflict and by providing humanitarian and economic assistance to the population. It also recalled the EU's willingness to provide technical assistance in the demarcation and demarcation of the international border between the two warring parties and stressed the importance of reopening the links and the development of economic and trade relations between the two countries. Apart from the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict, there are also wider bilateral tensions between Azerbaijan and Armenia. They have taken the form of deadly skirmishes at the border between the two countries. I have already said in Parliament that our country condemns this clash and calls on the parties to de-escalation. We need to sit around the table again to address the various issues that are still pending, such as the demarcation and demarcation of the border between Armenia and Azerbaijan, which dates back to the Soviet era. Finally, I would like to confirm that the position in your respective interventions and in the various resolutions adopted under your impetus by the Federal Parliament is in line with the policy pursued by the government in this issue of Armenia-Azerbsia relations. It is clear that your concern, which is in line with mine, is at the root of the Belgian diplomatic action in this matter. Let me be specific: Belgium, on behalf of the EU, supports the Minsk Group and its three co-chairs in the implementation of their mandate and in their call for the ceasefire to be maintained in accordance with the agreement of 9 November 2020 and the resulting obligations. During the various meetings with my Armenian, Azerbaijani and European counterparts, we repeated this appeal. My services continue to convey this message in all bilateral and multilateral fora dealing with the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict. Belgium has called on the parties to the conflict to cooperate with the exchange of prisoners of war and remains. We continue to do this and recognise the role of the ICRC as a mediator. Our country has publicly called on both countries to set up a committee for the demarcation and demarcation of their borders in order to resolve their bilateral border disputes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic646x.u35	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer and for your commitment. I clearly feel that we are on the same page, as you yourself say, in order to ensure that there is a de-escalation of the conflict. In recent months, we have been regularly receiving messages from border skirmishes, in which people are captured or killed. It is good that Charles Michel, President of the European Council, has responded adequately and is very active in this area, even with telephone conversations and meetings with defence ministers and various presidents. This sends a good signal, namely that we consider it important that we do not accept such a conflict at the borders of the European Union. The peace agreements concluded at the end of last year must be respected. There must be a clear demarcation at the borders, as you said. It is therefore a good thing that we are following this matter very closely. In recent weeks, we've been getting positive signals. However, the Minsk process both worries me, because we feel clear, including from talks with the Ambassador, that Azerbaijan has less confidence in it, as large Armenian delegations from different countries are also taking part in the negotiations. However, I believe that there is no other solution today than the one currently before us. I think it is a good thing that we, as well as the European Union, have a strong role to play in ensuring that there are no more skirmishes and that the peace agreement is respected.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic646x.u36	Debates of the European Parliament 55022798C, 55023007C and 55023225C by Mrs Jadin and 55023569C by Mr Moutquin are converted into written questions. Ladies and gentlemen, for the unanswered questions on the agenda, the Minister is prepared to provide a written reply before the end of the week. The committee secretariat will send an e-mail on this, to which I would ask you to respond by Thursday afternoon at the latest, so that the Minister's answers can be grouped together. This was our last meeting this year. I wish you a good year's end and a merry Christmas for you and your family. Take care of each other and be careful.
