ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u1	Minister, a pilot project has recently been launched, the Coast Express, a train link with few stops, which will start on 5 or 6 June. I'll go straight to my questions. Minister, how is this pilot project going? How are the reservations going? I believe you were opposed to a reservation system for SNCB. What's with the change of heart? SNCB also remains in principle against a reservation system. Then why is this pilot project being launched? How did this decision-making take place? Reservations can only be made online. Why was this decided? Why can't there be reserved at a counter? In this way, SNCB excludes people who are digibeet and also people in poverty, who are more often denied access to online applications. Why was De Panne chosen for the destination? Is that just because of Plopsaland? The station of De Panne is not located directly by the sea. Can other tourist destinations easily accessible by train, such as Walibi and the Zoo of Antwerp, claim these express trains? Why does SNCB choose to apply different rates? A ticket for an express train costs 1 euro more than a ticket for a regular train connection. Do people with disabilities also have access to express trains?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u2	Mr Minister, my question was put before the pilot project took place. Meanwhile, the trial weekend has already passed. In essence, my question is how the pilot project went and how it is being evaluated? I think I am much less negative about this pilot project than the previous speaker, because I think it is an interesting test. Especially for masses moving towards the coast, it can be an interesting method. I am therefore looking forward to the evaluation that has been carried out so far.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u3	Mr Van den Bergh, thank you for your conciseness.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u4	Minister, my question also dates from before the pilot project took place effectively. Nevertheless, I would like to express my explicit support for the new system of the reservation train. You will recall that a few weeks ago I argued in favour of this system when we were confronted with stations where people had to wait very long and queues to get a place on the train towards the coast. A reservation system, which is not mandatory, is still open to anyone to make use of the regular offer.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In addition, the traveller is faster on the spot. Mrs Vindevoghel, that is much more customer-friendly than selling tickets to people who find only at the station that they either have to wait a very long time or do not even get on the train anymore. It is a customer-friendly solution that people have the choice between a reservation express or the regular offer. Minister, as a result of the pilot project, I have a number of specific questions for you. What was the preset maximum occupancy of those trains? What capacity utilisation rate was achieved? How will the pilot project be evaluated? Can you indicate how the Coast Express will be deployed in the summer? From which stations and to which destinations will standard bicycle wagons be scheduled on these connections? Will it be ensured that reservations can also be made via the app or via the ticket counters for travellers who do not want or cannot do so via the website?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u5	Mr President, I have a slightly different tone. I am not so much concerned with the design that has been developed as with the area covered by it. In its policy statement, the federal government has indicated that it wants to move more people to take the train, that it wants to increase the supply of rail, that it wants to improve connections with foreign rail networks and that it wants to focus on multimodal and collective mobility. In the light of those objectives and the many problems encountered earlier with overcrowded trains heading towards the coast, SNCB carried out a first test on 5 and 6 June 2021 with the so-called Coast Express, which was just discussed. The Coast Express and the mandatory reservation must ensure that the rail and the coast, including many corona security measures, can handle a large influx of tourists without problems. In the event of a successful test, ten Coast Express trains would be running a day on weekends and four during the week. It would be four trains from Brussels-South and two trains each from Antwerp-Central, Ghent-Sint-Pieters and Liège-Guillemins. It is very striking that the province of Limburg is completely excluded from the offer of the Coast Express trains. Limburg is already underwhelmed with public transport. In a wider region, Limburg is locked up rather than unlocked and is once again ignored by policy makers and SNCB. So no Coast Express train will drive from Limburg to the coast. It seems as if people prefer not to welcome Limburgers on the coast. What is the reason why Limburg is left out of the Coast Express train plan? Was this decision taken in and endorsed by SNCB's Board of Directors? Was the Minister aware of this decision? Will an effort still be made to see if a Coast Express train can be used to or from Limburg?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u6	Mr Minister, I would like to take a different approach to the question and refer to the study carried out by the FPS Mobility which concludes that reservations for domestic rail traffic are not workable. Just at that moment the SNCB came with a very interesting slope. The FOD had mentioned many scenarios in his study, but this one was not mentioned. However, it seems to me that it meets the constraints that exist when working with reservations. As I understand it now, in addition to the fixed offer, which does not require a reservation, SNCB wants to work with an additional offer, which does require a reservation. In this way, the offer will be strengthened so that passengers can be sufficiently distributed. Anyone who wants to track to the coast quickly and without stops will get that extra alternative. We could read that the pilot project had already been positively evaluated by SNCB itself. I have a number of questions for you. How often will the Coast Express drive out? How will capacity utilisation be controlled on both types of trains? With express trains there is a chance of extra crowds in the stations at the departure moments. How did this go with the pilot project? Is there any need for additional measures in this area? Why can't bicycles be taken on the Coast Express? Is this going to be looked at any further? What conclusions do you draw from the FOD's investigation into the possibility of entering reservations on the train?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u7	Mr President, Minister, I thank you for the context surrounding express trains, which has already been widely recalled by my colleagues. I have an interest in this project, of course, but cautiously, all of which is to be able to evaluate this experience in order to determine the difficulties and check if there is any gain. I come immediately to my questions. What assessment does SNCB draw from this experience? What was the percentage of train use during the test? Will the project be implemented this summer? How? Does this offer attract a new audience or could the flow of passengers have been absorbed by the conventional offer? Reservation is only possible online. Why is it not possible to reserve a seat from a SNCB window? Do the Côte-Express offer pitches for bicycles and, if not, why? Is this possible? Are plans to extend this offer to or from Walloon stations? I am thinking of some provinces in particular. What responses will be provided to the organizations represented through the Advisory Committee for Railway Travellers (ACVF), which provided a negative opinion on SNCB's train reservation system.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u8	Mr President, Minister, I will not go back to the context already described by my colleagues either. I come directly to my questions. How will SNCB respond to the criticisms, in particular of the association Shuttles.be? What solutions does it propose to renew this experience without penalizing a part of the population? What's the record of this weekend test? Are the results of the analysis planned by SNCB to date? What is the return of travellers? Is there another test weekend planned to hope, this time, to welcome more travelers?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u9	Minister, it is difficult to oppose the idea of the Coast Express in itself. However, as a representative of the Dender region, I have already asked twice here about the connection of the Dender region to the coast via the existing line 50A. Both the Minister and his predecessor gave me an answer which, in substance, did not represent much and in fact demonstrated manifest unwillingness to answer the question. However, it was also formulated in the Flemish railway strategy of 2013. I therefore find it very painful for the inhabitants of the Dender region that today, with a fingernip, majorities can be transported more quickly and better to the coast. SNCB is not really known for finger-cutting or quick action. However, the question of my region is always clearly ignored. Minister, I assume that the electorate in those cities, especially in Liège and Brussels, is more important to you and that you have more intense political ties with them than with the Dender region. It is, of course, a dirty political game, which I would like to highlight and fight here. With all due respect, my pants are dropping. Not only must the Dender region continue to swallow the excesses of Brussels by the perverse and megalomaniac GEN around Brussels, the region is always ignored at mobility level, when it comes to tourist connections to the coast, Ghent and the culturally rich city of Bruges. There have been questions on this matter from the Flemish Government, of which we are not a member, but also from the region. I therefore find it embarrassing that the pilot project can be launched with a fingernip. I would like to take advantage of the topical debate to remind you of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your many questions and for your general interest in this operation. In recent months, at my request and in collaboration with my office, the SNCB has been reflecting on its offer of summer trains to the Belgian coast, with several objectives (a sufficient capacity in relation to demand, greater predictability and better management of passenger flows, an increase in travel comfort), in order to attract a different and additional audience to the train because, as you know, the train is freedom. On the weekend of 5 and 6 June, SNCB indeed started direct trains to the coast, the Coast Express, both in the morning to the coast and in the evening back from the coast. This was a pilot project aimed at a possible roll-out of the new offer during the next summer holiday. This test was quite conclusive. Before talking in detail about the ins and outs of this pilot experience, I am pleased to inform you – this is a scoop to the Mobility Committee – that from 3 July next, an offer of additional trains to the sea will be offered to travellers as part of the Côte-Express project. That extra offer comes from the same departure and arrival stations as the test project There will be a separate offer during the week and a more extensive offer from all those stations during the weekends. For these trains to the coast, the traveler reserves his ticket in advance and has a guaranteed seat for a more comfortable, faster and smoother journey to and from the Belgian coast. I would like to emphasise that this is an additional offer. The introduction of fast and direct additional trains will make it easier for our citizens throughout the country to travel quickly, comfortably and sustainably to coastal communities, which I can only welcome. Those trains, the so-called Coast Express trains, are direct trains, which do not stop in the intermediate stations. They are therefore faster than the trains of the classic offer. Train passengers can make reservations for those trains via the SNCB website. The reservation is needed on top of the regular train ticket. Booking costs 1 euro per person and per ride. With a reservation passengers are sure of their place on a specific train, but they can continue to choose freely where they will take their place on the train. Direct trains with reservations complement the existing offer and do not stop before their final destination. The new tested offer provides an answer to the demand of daytrip tourists who want to plan their trip to the sea in advance. Security of a seat, especially on busier routes during the summer, faster travel time and the avoidance of busy trains were noted in the survey with a spot on top. With a reservation for a direct train, the traveller who wants to spend a day by the sea has a travel experience with maximum comfort. This is a major advantage for families, as well as for older people or people with reduced mobility. The offer thus complements the classic train offer. There are different categories of passengers entering and exiting different stations during the classic offer during the journeys. These include commuters, students and occasional travellers. For the classic offer a reservation is certainly not considered. A reservation system on the classic trains would limit the flexibility of the entire train system too much. That flexibility gives travellers the freedom to take the train they want whenever they want. I cannot stress enough how important that is. Mobility is freedom. That puts me on the same wavelength as the travelers' associations. Taking the train must be easy and as easy as possible. Reservations for the regular train offer are practically not feasible, but above all not desirable. Reservations are not necessary and will never be necessary. The reservation system is not envisaged for conventional trains. Indeed, the use of a reservation system for normal trains would considerably limit the flexibility of the Belgian rail system as a whole, which is open and characterised by a large network of stations and stop points. This is the very clear conclusion of the study that I asked the Mobility FPS to draft. The members of this committee have received it and I agree with the conclusions. I cannot overemphasize the importance of this point. Mobility is freedom. We cannot and do not want to restrict it. In this case, we are doing the opposite: it is by offering additional trains that we are expanding it. Travelers to the Belgian coast in the coming summer will thus have the choice between a train without reservation that stops at different stations, and a train with reservation that runs directly. The new product was presented to the mayors of the coastal stations and to the province of West Flanders, who responded very positively to the launch of the pilot project. The pilot project on the weekend of 5 and 6 June was a real success, both operational and customer satisfaction. The purpose of this pilot experiment was not to accommodate a large number of travellers, but to test the formula and gather feedback from the travellers concerned. In this, it is a success. This satisfaction emerged in the course of the survey that we conducted. This is evident from a customer survey. 90 % scored at least 7/10, 87 % were satisfied with the online booking process, 92 % were satisfied with the experience in the station and 94 % were satisfied with the experience on the train. In concrete terms, twenty reservation trains will run every day of the summer. It is ten in the morning in the direction of the coast and ten trains in the evening in the direction of the inland. The trains depart in the morning in Antwerp-Central, Brussels-South, Ghent-Sint-Pieters and Liège-Guillemins. These are stations from which a large number of passengers take the train towards the coast. The trains arrive in Blankenberge, De Panne, Knokke and Ostend, from which they leave in the evening. SNCB informs me that the choice for the four stations included in the test project was motivated by the large crowd towards the coast in the four selected stations. The choice is also motivated by the free lanes. The project will not be rolled out to other stations in the coming summer. But travellers from all other provinces such as Limburg, Luxembourg, Namur, Flemish Brabant, Walloon Brabant or Hainaut can certainly book a coastal train from Antwerp or Brussels, such as travellers from Luxembourg or Namur can do so from Brussels. If there is no direct train leaving some provinces, you can take the train from Brussels or Antwerp to the destination of your choice. Travellers must book in advance and have a valid ticket. Guided children under the age of 12 should not have a ticket, but they should also book at a rate of 1 euro. Trains will help to anticipate better and spread passenger flows to different coastal destinations. There is also an accurate registration of the number of passengers on the train. A study by Westtoer shows that during the summer holidays 13 percent of day tourists travel by train to the coast. This concerns figures from the last summer before the corona crisis, in 2019. The study also showed that the day tourists mainly come from the provinces closest to the coast. On the basis of these figures, the use of the train is up to 30 % for day-trip tourists in Ostend, 29 % for Blankenberge, 9 % for Knokke and 6 % for De Panne. In other words, if we want to achieve modal shift, in line with the federal government's ambition, then it is important that we convince even more passengers to choose the train. The list of direct trains will be available from Thursday on the SNCB website. Trains can be booked from this Thursday. Trains will also be visible on the SNCB planning application. Passengers will be able to see, on the same site, the number of seats still available on direct trains to the coast, the Côte-Express. With the direct trains, passengers will be at their destination faster than with a classic IC train. The trains do not stop on the way and drive directly to their final destination. For example, if you want to travel from Antwerp Central to Blankenberge, the train will be 33 minutes faster than an IC train. Anyone who wants to go from Brussels to De Panne will do so 54 minutes faster. Between Brussels and De Panne this means for a day to the sea almost two hours profit. That's two hours of extra fun for young and old. The advantage of these trains is that they do not stop and provide a faster connection. I think it's likely to attract a new audience to the train. Travellers who want to take the Coast Express are asked to be at the station at least fifteen minutes before the departure of the train. SNCB staff shall check the reservation certificate for access to the platform. The organisation of passenger flows went quite well during the weekend test and all arrangements are made for this to be the case. All existing procedures for persons with reduced mobility shall continue to apply to direct trains to be reserved. They are separate from the procedure of reservation. The accompanying arrangements for persons with reduced mobility remain valid with the advantage for them of these direct journeys and reserved space. Mrs Zanchetta, you rightly mention the concerns – which I share – about the digital divide. The train must be accessible to all. SNCB informs me that unfortunately for this first year, a window solution is technically not feasible in the short term. The system with online reservations will apply for the coming months. There is still room for improvement. This is obviously far from ideal, but people who have difficulty access to the Internet can in many cases be helped by an association or a close friend to access the SNCB website to book. This reservation can be printed, so no smartphone is needed to show the booking certificate. I will continue to work in the future to ensure that the train is an attractive choice for everyone. Over 1,000 travellers booked a seat on the coastal express during the pilot project. Brussels was the most used station in the interior, followed by Liège, Antwerp and finally Ghent. On the coast was the most used station Ostend, followed by Blankenberge, De Panne and finally Knokke. It was really a first try. Knowing the number of travellers was not the objective of the project. The SNCB's main objective was to thoroughly test the practical part, the ability to reserve and channel the public. This assessment was positive. Some questions in the evaluation were whether the passengers would find the specially planned platform and how the check on the reservation certificate and the train ticket would be carried out. SNCB has extensively interviewed passengers using these trains about their experiences and potential improvement points. The satisfaction of users with the product itself was very high, the SNCB speaks of a satisfaction of 90 %.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The main reasons for satisfaction given to passengers were the security of a seat, the avoidance of overcrowded trains and the loss of time. It was also established that 40% only reserves the outward journey in order to make the return journey flexible. On the basis of the evaluation, it was therefore decided to make a number of improvements. Thus one should no longer reserve thirty minutes in advance, but fifteen minutes in advance. This also gives more flexibility for the return trip in the evening. This means that people with reduced mobility can now call for assistance, which was not the case in the pilot project. Bikes will be accepted but there will be no reservation possible. There is therefore no guarantee of space for bicycles. In case of impossibility of getting on a train with a bicycle, a refund of the reservation is possible. You know that we have also increased the number of places for bicycles on normal trains. No significant incidents occurred during the test weekend, except for a problem with queues in Brussels-Zuid and some travellers who did not find the weekend ticket immediately during the online booking. SNCB informs me that an improvement in flow management is under way. This includes improved signage and increased visibility of passenger information. SNCB also continued to take the necessary safety measures according to the sanitary protocol. During the weekends and school holidays, the weather can become quite busy at these destinations. There will therefore never be more passengers to book on this train than there are seats. SNCB will also keep trains in reserve in order to respond quickly to unexpected incidents. For me, the pilot project was an ideal way to investigate additional train supply to the coast, on top of the usual offer. In this way we encourage the train as a more attractive alternative to the car. This operation will obviously be evaluated in September – and we will be able to discuss it again – to identify the changes and improvements that need to be made for the future. I would like to strengthen the freedom gained by the train in the future in order to allow even more Belgians to opt for the train this summer or for daily trips. I'm very happy with the new Coast Express. I'm happy with this new operation. It is not perfect, but I think it has many advantages in attracting more people to the train, which I think is the objective of most members of this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u11	Thank you for your very comprehensive reply, Minister. Thank you also for the scoop!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u12	Thank you, Minister, for your very comprehensive but interesting answer. It is appropriate to congratulate SNCB for the pilot project and the offer from 3 July. It is a nice extra offer on top of the existing offer. Of course, it is also a specific offer, namely with reservations. That is logistics and operationally a challenge anyway. It is therefore logical that there should be sufficient passenger potential to deploy such trains from certain locations. Therefore, the choice for a number of major cities is a logical choice. In the future, this could be extended further. If a train is to run directly, it must of course have sufficient potential at its departure station and therefore step-ups to be able to achieve this effectively. We can expect some realism in that. I just don't quite understand what it's like to take the bike on those trains. Undoubtedly, colleagues have understood this correctly and I will understand it better immediately. We look forward to the September evaluation of a more permanent offer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u13	Mr Minister, we are of course glad that there are more trains and that those trains are at their destination faster is a very good thing, but they used to be there. There used to be more trains to the sea in the summer, but they didn't have to be reserved for that. We are therefore in favour of faster and more trains, but it is not good that a new class of passengers is being organized again. There is already a first and second class and now there will be a system with reservation that is not accessible to any part of the population. You say yourself you're sensitive to that. We have also heard in the hearings that there is still a part of the population where access to the Internet is a major problem. I asked a question about people with disabilities. I had done the test myself through customer service or people with disabilities who could take express trains. That's where they said they could do it now. We have had to wait ten days for an answer to prevent it from being accessible, while you are now saying that it is only from 3 July. It is a problem that this was not communicated through customer service, after all the customer service said something different than what I hear here. A third problem is safety. There has been an action by the staff in Tournai this weekend. I have also received several phones from mainly staff about the aggression on the trains. I hear from those people that that Coast Express train will require more staff from Securail to ensure safety and control of the train. There has already been a major shortage of staff at Securail, which will now increase because more staff will be deployed for express trains. We are not in favour of a reservation system. We believe that everyone should have access and there should be enough trains. We think that fast trains are a good idea, but we do not think that of the system of reservation at all. You're always talking about freedom. This is a restriction for part of the population.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u14	Thank you, Minister, for the good news you have brought to our committee on the continuation of the Coast Express project. Our group is very much in favour of this. We welcome this initiative. I am pleased to hear that not only the SNCB itself but also the travellers who have used it have assessed it as a positive experience. You've listed the benefits again. In exchange for the small effort to make a reservation for 1 euro, one gets the guarantee on a comfortable seat and the guarantee that one is much faster on the spot and gets back faster. This ensures that someone who plans his trip to the coast in advance can enjoy the coast longer. What could one possibly have against that, Mrs Vindevoghel? People get the choice and the freedom to either take the chance to find a place in the regular offer in the station, or to plan a trip in advance and pay 1 euro with the guarantee that one has a seat and is faster on the spot. I find it incomprehensible that the PVDA, as a major defender of public transport, opposes an extension of the offer, subject to reservations. That'll give you more options. How customer-friendly can a public transport company actually be? (Protests from Mrs Vindevoghel) Minister, you have the full support of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats for this project. I hope that in the future, because I am sure that these trains will be full during the beautiful summer days, will give rise to an extension of this system from all the provincial capitals of this country.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u15	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed answer. Anyway, it's good that the system is in place for this summer. Long enough, every school vacation again, we have experienced problems. During the last year and a half, several colleagues, including Mr Vandenbroucke and Mr Van den Bergh, called for such a system of reservation. The critical mind might note that it is a pity that it had to last a year, but well, we remain positive. Better late than never, it's in place now. We hope, of course, that the typical images of nuisance in the stations may now be a thing of the past. Nevertheless, I did not get an answer to the question as to why this was conceived as a completely separate system. This is a completely separate offer with separate trains. Of course it is also geographically limited, with a range from a limited number of stations. You have not explained why this is not introduced as a supplement to the fixed offer, for example by reserving one wagon or a part of rice for people who wish to reserve. Perhaps there is a reason for this and I think it is worth explaining it. It may be impossible or not practicable for obvious reasons, but it can also provide a piste for broadening the system, so that people from the Dender region or from Limburg, as Mr De Spiegeleer and Toventors pointed out, can also enjoy it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u16	Minister, you have given a very comprehensive answer and I have heard a lot of things, including from colleagues. I would like to stress that I have no problem with the project in itself. I am concerned about the regional aspect. Words are magical, because the offer is presented as faster and more comfortable, but that is not true for Limburgers. Because of the speed, it is stated, there is more time to have fun at the destination, but for Limburgers, who are already the longest on the way anyway, that is not true. I hear a general answer about free lanes and the number of passengers, but that is not an argument about my specific questions about them. Eventually, if they want to use the express train, the Limburgers will have to change in Antwerp or Brussels, at least according to what I am told. However, people from these regions also go to the sea. Every hour there is an express train, but in the evening the Limburgers have to make the farthest return journey. They'll leave at about the same time. That there can be no direct train or one or two coastal trains directly back to Limburg to serve the people who have to make the furthest journey and who have the least time to have fun on the coast, does not go into it at all. What is particularly shocking to me is that I am taking it up here for Limburg and I am asking you four questions for the Limburgers, when you did not actually answer any of them. That is a lack of respect for train passengers from Limburg. It's like they're second-class citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u17	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Traveling should always be without concern. As the infection rates are falling, vaccination rates are rising and more trains are being used towards the coast to spread the hustle and bustle, hopefully that carelessness on the train can actually return. We have argued with several colleagues during various sessions to continue looking for ways to make train traffic healthier and safer, because it is a sustainable alternative. This additional measure, if temporary and limited, can indeed be an added value in our view. It is a good thing to know that from 3 July the Coast Express will be on top of the regular offer. As I understand it, there is room for the bike on the Coast Express, but one cannot reserve it. It is good that SNCB is working on its vision to expand the golden combination of bike/train as much as possible. I understand that this will also be evaluated after the summer and it will be examined whether it is the right way to take the bike and whether some kind of reservation system should be linked to it. It is very important that SNCB continues to ensure that health and pressure measures are maintained on each train and platform. Hopefully, with the data from the reservations, a better distribution of the crowds can be ensured, including on other busy train connections towards the coast. I am very pleased with this first evaluation and I look forward to the follow-up.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u18	Minister, thank you for your answers. You talked about capital gains: better flow management and quick links that can attract a new audience. I share the interest with you. I made a number of comments and you provided some interesting answers, particularly with regard to the digital divide and the reservation system for bicycles. This type of pilot project should not exclude these elements and I am pleased to hear that there will be a new evaluation in September. I hope that these concerns can be integrated in order to improve the system. You mentioned a margin of progress. If the system is interesting, it can still progress and we ask SNCB to move forward on these various aspects. I hear that some areas will be outside the perimeter, both in Flanders and Wallonia. I come from Huy and to go to Ostend, it takes three hours on weekdays and three hours forty on weekends. There are therefore margins of progress in different parts of the country. You told us about your ambition to improve SNCB's offer on the weekend. This is important to improve the situation of all travellers, regardless of the region of the country. Thank you for making progress on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u19	Minister, the advantages of this new reservation system cannot be denied. It ensures a seating position on the train, better predicts the influx of passengers and avoids the need to travel in crowded trains. While I welcome the positive feedback, I regret that this reservation system is not more accessible. The digital divide is real and it can be a problem for many people. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u20	Mrs. Verhaert is no longer logged in.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u21	Minister, you have not answered many questions. I had not tabled a question, so I do not have the right to demand answers to questions, but, as my colleague Mr Tusters says, he has not received an answer to any of the questions. What strikes me most is that the system is applauded and that it is said that if it is evaluated positively it will be extended to all provincial capitals and smaller cities. However, that is not the essence of the plea I have been making here for two years. The opening of the Denderstreek towards the coast is available, but is not used. It is no longer about the reservation system at all, but about the fact that that line is there, but is not used at all in that direction. It is used towards Brussels, to bring the 20th-century commuter to Brussels, but not in the opposite direction. As it has not even been used in the traditional way so far, I think that the reservation system will certainly not be or will not be covered there. That was the wake-up call I wanted to give the minister again. I have also done so with Minister Van Quickenborne, responsible for the North Sea, who stressed in his policy paper the tourist value of the Flemish coast. He called it the Belgian coast, but everyone makes mistakes. He too remained deaf to that East Indian. The essence remains that certain regions, certain citizens, certain taxpayers are deprived of proper, fast and comfortable access to the coast and relaxation. That must not be forgotten in this debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u22	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Frank Toventors and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mr Frank Toventors and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Mobility, - considering the government's mobility plans to lead more people to the use of the train; - considering the Government's plans for a sensitive extension of the rail supply; - considering the already limited SNCB rail supply in the province of Limburg, - having regard to the decision to insert additional Coastal Express trains to be transported to the coast in a Corona-Safe manner; - considering that Limburgers would like to be able to visit the coastal region safely and comfortably by train; - having regard to the fact that SNCB does not provide any Coast Express train to and from Limburg; asks the government immediately take the necessary measures to ensure that Limburg will also be included in the Coastal Express train plan of SNCB and the Limburg train passengers by means of its own Coastal Express train connection, thus ensuring a corona-safe and comfortable train journey to the coast." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Frank Troosters and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr Frank Troosters and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Mobility, - given the government's mobility plans to encourage more people to use the train; - in view of the government's plans to significantly increase rail supply; - having regard to the SNCB rail offer already limited in the province of Limburg; - having regard to the decision to add additional Côte-Express trains in order to transport passengers in safe conditions in relation to the coronavirus; - since Limburgers also want safe and comfortable conditions to get to the coast; - since the SNCB does not provide for any additional Côte-Express train from/to Limburg; asks the government to take without delay the necessary measures to ensure that Limburg is also included in the SNCB's Côte-Express railway plan through a clean Côte-Express link and thus to guarantee to the passengers of Limburg conditions of transport to the coast comfortable and safe in relation to the coronavirus." A simple motion was tabled by Mr Nicolas Parent. A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Nicolas Parent. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u23	Minister, I was unable to attend the previous question session, but I would like to ask this somewhat older question today. At the committee meeting on 17 March, I asked you whether the station of Hamont would be modified so that longer trains could also stop there. You informed me that that would indeed be the case. I would have liked to have some more specific information. Which works are planned exactly? What is the exact timeline for the works, with start and end dates? What's the estimated cost?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u24	Mr Raskin, I had the pleasure of visiting your region a few days ago, which is very nice, for the inauguration of electrification of the line, on which I am very satisfied, as with the use of direct trains in the morning and evening for the inhabitants of Limburg and the Kempen. As agreed in the multi-annual strategic investment plans (SMIP) of Infrabel and SNCB, it is initially the extension of the existing platform in order to receive longer trains. The existing platform is a medium platform and the question arises as to whether the entire platform should not be transformed into a higher platform, which is what Infrabel and SNCB are now discussing. The submission of an environmental application is currently planned for the second half of 2021. The tendering procedure for a framework contract for the increase of platforms is already under way. That framework contract shall include the adaptation works at Hamont. Work on the site will start in spring 2022. The duration of the works is estimated at about one year, depending, of course, on the available work facilities, out-of-use facilities and any changes to a fully high platform. For the extension of the platform, Infrabel provided a budget of about half a million euros in the SMIP. The additional price due to a possible scope change to a fully high platform still has to be budgeted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u25	Thank you, Minister, for the detailed information. I won't dwell on it, because we'll talk about the file later in our questioning session.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u26	Colleagues, I had initially submitted my question to Minister Khattabi, but she was referred to the Mobility Committee. Hydrogen is often seen as a lever for sustainable transport. Hydrogen is also an important part of the recovery plan submitted to the European Commission. The aviation sector seems to be a cool lover of it today. They say they want to invest in sustainable biofuels as an alternative to the use of kerosene, but they think that hydrogen is too far to go. Airbus, for example, sees a possibility of getting a first passenger plane on hydrogen into the air by 2035, but has doubts about the space required of hydrogen compared to kerosene, which would make it more likely to be used for short-range flights. Another reason for the lesser success is the lack of infrastructure, in particular power stations, and investment compared to other new fuels, although the industry wants to do everything it can to reduce emissions. Have you already consulted with the sector in this respect? How do you view the sector's preference for the use of biodiesel in the future? How does the government intend to boost the use of hydrogen in the sector?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u27	Mr President, Mr Van Lommel, every alternative fuel has its supporters and opponents, which shows that the ideal fuel does not exist. Many alternative fuels resemble paper as an easy solution, but thorough analysis shows that the perfect solution does not exist and it will take time to implement them. For example, biodiesel seems to be a sustainable alternative and will continue to be so until the use of hydrogen in the aviation sector takes place in general from 2035-2040. I will take steps to support all relevant research, development and investment initiatives and involve Belgian companies interested in the sector. At international level, I will support all efforts to make progress in the regulatory area. It should not be forgotten that, for certain specific applications, the results will only be visible in three to five legislative hours. The policy of supporting industry and scientific research also belongs to the Regions and Communities.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u28	Minister, you say that there are opponents and supporters and that the perfect solution does not exist. It is, of course, up to the government to facilitate this. You say we should do it for the time being with sustainable biodiesel in the future. However, Biodiesel is not always as sustainable as it is claimed. However, it is your party, Ecolo, which is always full of sustainability among other things of aviation. That is in stark contrast to the often heard ambitions. I actually got an answer that's not really an answer. You say it will remain with biodiesel, which the industry itself puts first. I expected something more from you. Your answer disappoints me.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u29	Mr Minister, I have tabled two follow-up questions on this subject. The idea of a scored driving licence was already registered in the law in 1990, but practical implementation has never been achieved. However, the government wants to revive the idea. That's what the coalition agreement says. Minister, what is the state of this commitment? What concrete steps have already been taken to implement the idea of the point driving licence? Has a study been started yet? If so, can you explain that? When can we expect the results of the study? If not, has the idea been deleted and why? Have you discussed the idea of introducing a driving licence with points with your colleagues in the Länder?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u30	Mr Raskin, as provided for in the coalition agreement, various initiatives are being taken in the fight against recidivism. One is the study on the role of the driving licence with points in the Belgian context. The study on the role of points driving licences in comparison with other countries has already been launched. This study is carried out by the Vias Institute, which also carried out a first study on the expected effects of the points driving licence in 2018. The 2018 study of the Vias Institute highlighted the points driving licences of only a few European countries. As a result, the benchmark was rather limited. The study carried out this year will involve more European countries. Countries with and without points driver's license are questioned. Attention shall be paid to the road safety performance of all countries studied, to the level of enforcement and to all systems used to address the phenomenon of recurrence. Vias Institute's study will be completed at the end of 2021. It is my intention to work closely with colleagues from the Länder. It is essential that I negotiate such large projects, which have an impact at all levels, with my colleagues whom I meet very regularly. Then I come to your second series of questions. Of course, setting up a point system generates costs. In 2018, a first, only partial, assessment was made of this. The following costs were addressed: ICT developments and management of such systems, operational costs, communication campaigns, legal work, the adaptation of all articles of law that are impacted by this, and costs for supporting enforcement activities. The costs related to organising training courses to enable point recovery and driving licence recovery were not calculated in 2018. Taking into account all recent developments, certain costs will have to be quantified again. When the driving licence was provided for in the law on 18 July 1990, there was no database in which all traffic offences were recorded. Since 28 March 2018, this has been the case, in particular in the MACH database, which centralises all immediate collections, friendly settlements, payment orders and court regulations on traffic infringements. This was accompanied by a very extensive and gradually introduced process automation of traffic fines. In addition, we must take into account the recent introduction of municipal or regional administrative sanctions in Flanders and Wallonia, which are not currently registered at the central level, in the MACH database. Finally, since mid 2020, police officers on the ground have also been able to verify whether persons have a valid driving licence and take drivers who are in danger of crashing out of traffic immediately. The various databases and applications have therefore evolved considerably in recent years. These developments will have to be taken into account when setting up a system for detecting repeaters. The new study has therefore already been launched and will be completed before the end of the year. This study is carried out by Vias Institute responsible for the search of all European Member States and some European countries outside the European Union, such as the United Kingdom and Norway. This includes questions about countries with or without driving licences. At present, it is impossible to tell how many countries will be compared in a final way, as not all countries have confirmed their cooperation. In any case, the benchmark will be much wider than that carried out in the previous study.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u31	Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensive answer. Under the motto 'hurry and urgency is rarely good' I can perfectly live with the fact that the Vias Institute, which is very competent, is again carrying out a study with a broader benchmark in order to get a clearer picture, so that we can make the right decision and have the right debate. The study will be completed by the end of this year. That won't take long, so far so good. I only hope that, when the study is completed, this will not be checked out as ready, with which the coalition agreement will really be honoured. We really have to work on it. You say that you will involve the Länder, which is essential. I do not understand whether you have already discussed it in the context of this dossier, but at a later stage we are still discussing it. With regard to the cost, you list a number of costs that the driving licence will entail with points. This is certainly the case, but road safety and the prevention of repeated accidents and of tragedies that so many families face in traffic accidents may have a certain cost. The debate will continue, and I look forward to the study at the end of this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u32	In the meantime, Minister, this question has become somewhat outdated. The Institutional Affairs Working Party recently organised three hearings at the Flemish Parliament on mobility. Various important and interesting partners were invited, such as the Department of Mobility and Public Works, MORA Vlaanderen, the FOD Mobility, Transport and Logistics Flanders, Vias Institute, Federdrive, De Lijn, Brussels Airport Company and SNCB. To their surprise, the organisers of Mrs Dutordoir's hearing had to learn that she would not be present without reason. She was not present either, nor did she send an alternate, even though she could have. Minister, for what reason did the SNCB CEO not want to take part in this? Do you consider that appropriate in the light of your multimodal mobility plans, Vision 2040, in which coordination of rail transport and regional transport will play an important role?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u33	Mr Toventos, like your question, my answer is somewhat out of date. I would also like to remind you that I have very regular discussions with my regional colleagues, because cooperation is the right way to move forward, both in terms of mobility and in terms of politics in general. SNCB informs me that it is always prepared to take part in hearings when they concern its activities. For example, she has participated in several hearings in the Committee on Mobility of the Chamber in recent months, both on the impact of COOVID-19 and on the transport plan, on the accessibility of trains and stations, on operational safety and punctuality. As a supervisory minister, I can only welcome that, given my respect for Parliament. SNCB immediately contacted the secretariat of the Institutional Affairs Working Group after receiving the invitation from the Flemish Parliament to obtain additional information on the hearings. SNCB learned that the FPS Mobility was also invited to the hearing on 10 May. SNCB was also informed of the subject which the Committee would like to see discussed, in particular the current and future allocation of competence in relation to mobility. This is, in other words, a highly institutional and perhaps political issue. On this basis, SNCB informed the secretariat of the committee that it considered that the FPS Mobility would be better placed to make a presentation on this issue. The Secretariat has confirmed its full understanding of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u34	Minister, you can also convey what you are told, but you will probably not be surprised that I do not fully agree. I actually think it is a missed opportunity that SNCB was absent at a hearing where all these partners were present, because there was a possibility to share or coordinate certain knowledge, information, plans and views and to discuss them with other key actors in the field of mobility. SNCB would like to explain its activities, but it is not on an island in terms of mobility, where only the train runs from station to station. It goes way beyond that. In addition, Flanders finances certain railway lines and projects, so there is also a clear link. Flanders is therefore good for funding projects, but SNCB does not seem to consider it necessary to participate respectfully in a hearing in the Flemish Parliament. I can only regret that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u35	My question is very topical, given the situation in Antwerp with PFOS. Here too, we are talking about a harmful product, in this case for the health of workers. I was a trade union delegate for 20 years and was on the committee all the time. I am therefore very concerned about the health of workers. The Dutch TV programme Zembla reported that Dutch railway workers have been exposed to a higher concentration of the carcinogenic quartz dust for at least ten years. This is demonstrated by a confidential research report commissioned by ProRail, the Dutch counterpart of Infrabel. ProRail deliberately exposed workers, travellers and local residents to this carcinogenic substance. The danger lies in the ballast stones. They are also used by us to cover the tracks and drain water. There's quartz in those stones. When manipulating the stones, a dust cloud is created, in which the air is blown into respiratory quartz dust. Quartz dust is very fine dust that penetrates into the alveoli. This is carcinogenic and can cause dust lung and lung cancer. So it's a dangerous thing. Since when has Infrabel been aware that this substance is released when working on railway lines and that it constitutes a danger to people's health by inhalation? Can Infrabel estimate the number of employees, their own employees and subcontractors who come into contact with the fabric in Belgium during rail works? Does Infrabel carry out measurements during work on the track with regard to the risks of the quartz dust? How often are the measurements carried out? When did the latest reading take place? What were the results? Which specific types of ballast stones are used when working on the track? What is the supplier and its origin? Who decides which type of stone can be used? Who sets the standard? Does Infrabel use the same type of ballast stones, namely Bedstone, as ProRail, from the firm Bontrup, which would, among other things, operate a quarry in Norway? Is Infrabel aware that there are also low quartz and even quartz-free ballast stones such as olive oil, a stone that also absorbs CO2? If so, is that type of ballast stone used?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u36	Mrs Vindevoghel, I learned a lot when I was preparing an answer to your questions with Infrabel. Fortunately, the situation in Belgium is completely different from that in the Netherlands. The health of the Belgian railway worker is incredibly important to me as well as to Infrabel. Allow me, therefore, to give you a comprehensive answer. The stones that are processed into ballast usually contain quartz. Quartz itself is not harmful to health. However, when working with quartz-containing materials, very fine particles of quartz dust can be released. Those who work long-term and unprotected with quartz-containing materials are exposed to it. In doing so, he or she is at risk of serious health problems. Such fine dust can be avoided by keeping the ballast wet. If this cannot be done, or has insufficient effect, a personal protective device must be worn. Infrabel tells me that it closely follows the Dutch dossier on quartz dust. According to the information now available to Infrabel, there would be fundamental differences between the situation in the Netherlands and Belgium. Infrabel indicates that it does not know the problems ProRail is facing, or certainly not to the same degree. Infrabel gives the following reasons for this. Firstly, Infrabel imposes strict obligations on its suppliers, in particular the quarries. For example, ballast may contain only a certain percentage of fine particles. The percentage Infrabel uses in its technical provisions is more stringent than the European standard. To meet the stringent Infrabel standard, all suppliers wash their ballast. This way, there is less fine dust present. The European standard says that fine particles in ballast are only available from 63/1000 mm. With Infrabel, the standard is 1.6 millimeters. Secondly, Infrabel mainly uses porphyria as ballast. That is a very hard type of stone with little quartz. It has a quartz content of less than 30%. Thirdly, Infrabel uses the short chain. There is work with Belgian quarries. As a result, the transport of the ballast to the railway yard is only a relatively short distance and the ballast often arrives wet. The wetter the ballast, the less dust formation. Because the chain is short, less action is needed, so less fine dust can be released. Infrabel shall follow the relevant legislation. Exposure to dangerous substances should remain below the occupational exposure limit to chemical agents. The list of these limit values is contained in the codex on well-being at work. The list was taken over from the Royal Decree of 11 March 2002. In addition, since the publication of the Royal Decree of 12 January 2020, work involving the exposure of workers to an inhalable crystalline silicon digoxin substance generated by a work process has also been included in the list of carcinogenic agent processes. This has also been taken up in the annex to the codex on well-being at work. I repeat that safety and health of staff and contractors must be one of the absolute priorities for Infrabel and for myself. Employees working with ballast must wear mandatory breathing protection, such as a mouth mask with T3 filters. The workers of Infrabel who can come into contact with quartz dust during railway works are the ones who are responsible for the maintenance of the tracks, the monitoring staff when working by contractors, and the operators of the heavy equipment. Infrabel cannot estimate the number of employees of contractors and subcontractors in contact with quartz dust during rail works. Important to know, Infrabel doesn't have any medical records that show up with a disease associated with quartz dust. Infrabel performs measurements on a regular basis. The most recent measurement was made in January 2020. She was talking about the activity of unloading ballast with tremel trucks. The measured value was less than half the limit value. New measurements are programmed for 2021. The balast stones for Infrabel are supplied from qualified quarries. There are now three types of balast stones: porphyry, sandstone and limestone. Infrabel's main suppliers are the Sagrex Quenast and CUP Lessines for porfier and GBA Poulseur and Sagrex Lustin for sandstone. Infrabel does not use Bontrup balast stones. After all, Bontrup is not qualified according to the necessary technical provision of Infrabel. Finally, no quarry has so far been qualified for balast stones of the type olive oil. It is not clear today whether balast stones of the type olive oil meet the technical requirements.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u37	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive answer and for the many information. I found it interesting to hear that Infrabel is working on the cause and making a lot of effort so that the stones contain as little fine dust as possible. I still have questions. I took a picture of your predecessor as minister who didn't wear a FFP3 mask himself. I also often see, when I pass by the train, that people in the workplace do not wear FFP3 masks. Infrabel, of course, has many subcontractors. Control is very important if the work is to be done safely. It will therefore be important to make sustained efforts. The particulate matter should be measured regularly. We should also look for alternatives that are not dangerous to workers. I am particularly concerned about the subcontractors, who may not have the necessary protection, all the more so because there is less control over them. I hope that Infrabel will continue to strive for healthy working conditions for railway workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u38	Mr President, I will briefly address the question. She's a bit dated in the meantime. The Minister of Mobility has a website linked to the website of his cabinet. We found that the minister used his cabinet's website to pass on political messages and then only on the French language and not the Dutch language part of that site. There were reports that had nothing to do with mobility, such as "adieu au nucléaire" and "sourire à l'Amérique qui sourit" and some others. Minister, how do you justify putting on your cabinet's website political messages that have nothing to do with your cabinet's powers? How do you justify that language legislation is not correctly applied on the cabinet website? Since it is actually a matter of private use of a website paid for by a ministerial cabinet, an advantage of all kinds should be calculated, as should an employee of a company that could use a company car. Can you tell us if you intend to indicate an advantage of all kinds for the private use of the website of your ministerial cabinet? If not, why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u39	Minister, as the previous speaker said, we see party political interviews taking place on the website of your cabinet, Belgian Platform. There are still plenty of opportunities to put party politics on other sites, I would think. Is it a conscious choice to publish different messages to the population according to the language group? Shouldn't a federal minister of mobility be able to communicate clearly in the different national languages? It is rather strange that there are different ways of communicating, depending on whether this is the Flemish or the French-speaking part of the country.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u40	Thank you for your questions, Mrs Vindevoghel, Mr Raskin, Mr Toventors. Firstly, I am pleased that you are following my announcements so carefully through my website and my social media. You quote four messages that I posted on my personal facebook page in April. As Deputy Prime Minister or just as a politician, I feel addressed by these issues and publicly share my views on them. These messages were initially on an official website, but I wanted them to be read more widely. Since the beginning of May, the full texts of my reflections are now widely distributed through my Facebook page, in order to give them more visibility. Thanks to my social media approach, the texts are read in their entirety and more easily shared online. You will no longer find them on my official website. On the official website provided by the Prime Minister's chancery, I make sure that it is available as soon as possible in the three country languages to better inform all citizens of our beautiful country. It is very important to me that the information is available in both Dutch, French and German. As Deputy Prime Minister, I will therefore continue to talk about energy, climate, social dumping and other social issues. As a politician, I will continue to fight for important values that I adhere to, but with a distinction between my official website as Minister of Mobility and in my social media.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u41	It is obvious that we follow your website and your communication. One of the opposition's orders is to control the government. That's how democracy works. I hear from you a humble answer. I'm glad to hear that. I understand from that that you have also understood that you have gone a step too far. You should not use that official website for a number of messages that you have brought there. You can say that you are Deputy Prime Minister and so you can go very wide. I do not want to discuss this myself, but if you put an article on your official website only in French about the fact that you are happy that there is a green Chancellor candidate in Germany, then we can discuss where a Deputy Prime Minister can communicate. It's not clean. I understand you understand, you'll do that on your own social media page from now on. That's okay, of course. You don't do that anymore through your official website. Then the discussion is closed for me.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u42	Minister, the fact that you have made the necessary adjustments says something in itself. I don't have a problem with you communicating, either. I'm glad to hear you keep talking and communicating. You know that the Flemish interest is an ardent supporter of freedom of expression, unlike some parties in this government. You only have to do so on the right platform, but you intend to do so in the future. You will also update your official website in three languages. I can only be happy about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u43	Minister, you will separate your website from your cabinet's website. I would like to come back to the aspect of language. You are federal minister, that is to say the communication on your website should include both matters in Flanders and matters in Wallonia. That is not the case now. Now some things are put on it and others aren't. Since you are federal minister, we are in favour of your communication on the themes of Mobility being systematic in the two languages and not different according to the theme.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u44	Mr President, Minister, as we know, Infrabel is planning to close all the ground-level rail crossings in the long term and, where possible, replace them with an alternative in the form of a bridge or a tunnel. At the time of submitting this request, the municipality of Herzele counts six ground-level railway crossings. I would have liked to know what ground-level rail crossings on the territory of the municipality of Herzele Infrabel wish to close? Has consultation already taken place with the local government of Herzele on this issue? What is the outcome of these consultations and what was the position of local government in this regard? Not insignificant, how do we deal with consultation with the wider population? Are there any information moments planned for the residents? If so, when?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u45	Mr President, Mr Roggeman, I hope that I will give a brief answer with the necessary elements. The situation is as follows. In May, Infrabel presented a target image to the municipality of Herzele as a first step with an alternative to every road. There is not yet a specific period of time within which this will happen. There have already been some conversations between Infrabel and the municipal government. For the time being, no agreement could be reached. This does not mean that information is being discussed at the moment, but it will come when an agreement is reached.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u46	Thank you, Minister, for the clear answer. I think local participation remains important here too. It is not the first time that the possible closure of consideration raises local discussion, sometimes the whole village can be divided into two. It is therefore all the more important that local realities are also known, examined and respected in terms of mobility. There have often been examples from other municipalities that have strengthened this. We also know from previous debates that we agree on the need to consider the need for approximation of legislation on the closure of a single ground. I have also tabled a legislative proposal on the basis of comments and suggestions from the VVSG and Trage Wegen.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u47	Mr Minister, until now the same rules apply to rail transport in port areas as on the main network, in stark contrast to the road code, with very different rules in port areas. The port of Antwerp has made a plea for a separate railway framework for port tracks, in order to achieve separate rules that should lead to more efficient and flexible work, better flow and an increase in efficiency for transhipment. Do you know that question from the Port Authority of Antwerp? Have you been in contact with other authorities making similar pleas? How do you feel about that? How does Infrabel feel about that? How can ports in our country have their own framework with their own rules for rail transport within their area of operation? Do you see any possibility of improving freight transport in general? If you are not in favour, what other ways do you see to achieve a more flexible transfer? What potential changes can be made to facilitate the implementation of the first and last mile?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u48	Thank you, Mr Roggeman. Indeed, today, almost all the actors involved in a port context are asking parties for the creation of such a rail framework. I am very positive about that. Both Infrabel and I are convinced of this necessity. A port-specific regulatory framework is an important condition for achieving our target by 2030, namely the doubling of the volume of rail freight. However, the development of a specific port framework should be carefully considered in the light of the existing European regulatory framework. Account should also be taken of the complexity of the application of the rules in the field, without compromising operational security. Such a framework should enable inefficient behaviour by rail users to be discouraged, to encourage efficient behaviour and to achieve full transparency in the chain. For example, it should be possible to determine which infrastructure can be used for which purposes, as well as what information should be provided by the different parties in order to achieve this. In the light of rapidly changing circumstances, these rules should be adaptable quickly and flexibly. Through the existing framework, the Infrabel network statement, it is impossible to meet these requirements. Infrabel will therefore work with the port of Antwerp and the competent public authorities to develop a separate framework for the port of Antwerp. This framework could subsequently serve as a blueprint for other port areas and industrial zones. The current restrictions give local train movements little flexibility to users. Also the duration is on the high side. This obviously has a negative impact on the cost of rail transport and thus on the modal shift in general. In order to facilitate the implementation of the so-called first-and-last-mile relocations, two possible aspects can be addressed. Firstly, the simplification of the procedure for the local use of public rail infrastructure by non-rail undertakings. Secondly, the increase in flexibility in undefined areas. We're working on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u49	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I am pleased that you acknowledge and wish to meet the questions. I look forward to the results of the investigations that are planned and hopefully the legislative initiative that will follow.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u50	Mr Minister, in the past I have asked a number of questions about the future of the statutory work of SNCB. So far, unfortunately, I have not had much clarity about this. However, the CEO of SNCB, Mrs Dutordoir, indicated that she was already in favour of an extinguishing scenario of statutory recruitment. In the long term, it wants to switch fully to contractual work at SNCB. The government agreement, which you support, also provides for an evaluation of this statutory work on the railways. How many statutory employees will naturally be discharged from SNCB this year and in the coming years? How many will HR Rail employ for SNCB? Do you think that a change of approach is needed to make SNCB competitive against the forthcoming liberalisation of passenger transport? After all, that is what your coalition agreement says. What framework would you prefer for the employment of private railway companies that will become active in our market in the future? Does the law of 1926 need to be revised in this respect? What does social dialogue mean in the future when private companies enter, for example under open access? Should the social dialogue be reorganised? Do you think that SNCB can suffer from a competitive disadvantage if private companies entering the market with contractual staff only? Will you take steps to make contractual recruitment the rule with SNCB? If so, how do you intend to do that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u51	Mr Roggeman, the answer to your last question is no, but I will give you a more comprehensive answer. SNCB estimates that some 1,100 statutory full-time equivalents will be issued this year. Next year there will be about 960. At the same time, between 800 and 850 statutory recruitments are planned in each of these years. Staff leaving are, in general, more likely to have a higher seniority than those recruited. This has a positive impact on staff costs. This effect is partly mitigated by a limited number of recruitments with a highly specialised profile contracted. As you know, this government wants to ensure that public enterprises reconcile the objectives of competitiveness with their role as a model, including social dialogue with staff and continuing training. As announced in my policy paper, I will encourage SNCB and Infrabel to reflect on the evolution of their personnel policy, in close consultation with the social partners and with all due respect for social dialogue. The recently published specifications therefore stated that the development of a dynamic human resources policy, focusing on continuous worker training, equal opportunities, the promotion of diversity and the fight against social dumping, including in subcontractors, should be one of the objectives of SNCB. We must make the most of the know-how of our railway staff. At the same time, we must also enable them to adapt their profession to the ongoing changes in the rail sector caused, inter alia, by technological evolution, digitisation and market opening. Given the age pyramid, it is also necessary to ensure transfer of skills between generations. We must also address the challenge of recruiting and integrating new workers. These should represent both the different genders and the diversity of our society within the workforce. Our railway companies must remain exemplary, modern and attractive employers. At present, the social dialogue in the railways has been built on a solid basis. Railways have a very long tradition of social dialogue, based on the 1926 law. Like this law, dialogue has evolved over time, adapted to the circumstances and strengthened. The current social climate is proof of this. After all, there were very few strikes in 2019, last year there was no strike and this year only one. This is undoubtedly explained by the quality of this dialogue and the consultation with the social partners. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that, for certain bodies, the social dialogue on the railways was established by the results of the 2018 social elections. In the next three years, before the next social elections, the legal framework of the latter must be respected.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u52	Minister, when it comes to employment in the rail sector, our country is unique in the world, because we are the last country in which a passenger transport train can only be driven by statutory officials. The penultimate country in it was France, and that country is already coming back from it. We're the last ones on the planet. I understand from your reply that you will not take steps to recruit contractual agents. Thank you for that clarity. In this respect, you seem to disagree with the CEO of SNCB, who has already expressed his support for it. Of course, the fact that you disagree with the CEO is not unique, as we have seen before. More remarkable is that you are also derogating from your own coalition agreement, because it states clearly and clearly that SNCB must be prepared in its policy ofhrs to be competitive, in line with the new European rules. Anyone with some political insight knows what that means. Apart from that research that has to be done, you have already finished your conclusion, because you say you will not take any steps, regardless of the outcome of the investigation. I wonder what your liberal coalition colleagues think of that. Apparently, they have taken this aspect into account in the negotiations on the coalition agreement, because that passage, which undoubtedly came up with their question, appears to be completely worthless.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u53	Mr Minister, this question was asked a while ago, after which it was converted into a written question, to which I did not receive an answer. I've retabled them now.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u54	Mr President, Mrs Bury, first of all, when registering via WebDIV, the broker immediately receives confirmation that the new vehicle was registered while maintaining the registration plate. From now on, the old vehicle is no longer registered under the registration plate, nor is it insured and therefore no longer allowed on the public road. If the old vehicle is still in service, that is the liability of the holder or the driver. Secondly, the entry in the register of the DIV is a priority. From that moment on, the old vehicle is no longer registered. What you call a defect is specific to a system in which the registration plate can be retained by the holder and he can register a new vehicle below. Thirdly, I believe that your question also highlights the need for citizens to be well informed about the procedure and its consequences. In principle, brokers provide their clients with the necessary information to avoid misunderstandings. However, I will ask the DIV to analyse how this type of information can be made sufficiently clear on its website.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u55	Mr. Secretary, what's been filled in on the website is primed. That is how I understood it from your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u56	Mr Minister, ensuring that a generation can grow up without smokers and the heavy consequences of smoking is the practice of Generation Smoke-free. This alliance consists of citizens, organisations and various municipal authorities who want to work together to make sure that children are less exposed to smoking so that they decide less later to start smoking. Many sports fields, playgrounds and public buildings have been made smoke-free in recent years. One of the public places where smoking can still be visible are the platforms. There is, of course, a provision on smoking on platforms. We can't do that when the tracks are covered. But a rule with exceptions makes sure no one knows whether it's allowed or not. If we look at the Netherlands, the platforms there have been smoke-free since 2020. In our country, too, many travellers are asking parties. In Mechelen, the city administration sent an open letter to the SNCB Summit asking for platform entrances and platforms to be smoke-free. It also offers the Mechelen station as a pilot project, hence my questions, Minister. Are you in favour of making the entire station smoke-free including the platforms and entrances to the station buildings? Do you think that SNCB should introduce this and, if so, what steps will you take to achieve this? What do you think of the city of Mechelen's proposal for a pilot project? Will you ask SNCB to comment on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u57	Mr Minister, as the honourable Member says, we have been informed in the press that you will have an investigation into how you can amend the law to make the platforms and stations, the entrances and exits, smoke-free in the future. You are responding to a pilot project in the city of Mechelen. Those are two stations that will make the city smoke-free anyway. At least that's what they're planning. SNCB welcomes the initiative of Mechelen and refers to the Netherlands and France where this has been applicable for a long time. You will also find a partner in Vooruit. We fully support the Generation Smoke-free campaign which must allow children who are now born to grow up smoke-free. The coalition agreement also clearly endorses this. Are you looking at other pilot projects than the Mechelen station? If you set a trial period, how long will it run or will you not set a trial period and immediately proceed to a ban? At what time can you achieve a legislative change?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u58	Mr Minister, after asking the city of Mechelen, you would like to have a study of what steps are needed to make the stations and platforms, including the uncovered ones, completely smoke-free. Today there is already a smoking ban in station buildings and also on covered platforms. That makes sense. You are proposing a number of possible changes to the regulation to extend the ban on smoking to the reception infrastructure as a whole, even in the case of the open air. The entry and exit points of station buildings would also be subject to a smoking ban, starting with this pilot project and, who knows, broadening later. How many complaints do SNCB receive on an annual basis from travellers who are affected by smoking in the vicinity of stations? What benefits do you see in completely non-smoking locations in the open air? What adjustments are required to the law on railway police? The ban on smoking in the open should also be maintained. Who's gonna make that happen? How much are the fines for infringements of this rule? Finally, are you in favour of further restricting the freedom of action for citizens, such as by banning smoking in the open air?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u59	Minister, Operation "Generations without Tobacco", supported by the Cancer Foundation, hopes that children will no longer be confronted with the vision of people who smoke. The aim is to eradicate smoking so that future generations no longer have to suffer it, knowing that tobacco causes about 14,000 deaths each year in Belgium, according to the Foundation's estimate against cancer. Furthermore, according to the Foundation, children who see smokers are more likely to become smokers themselves. Although the municipalities were made aware of the operation, the city of Malines seized the ball at the leap and asked SNCB to turn its station into a tobacco-free pilot station, knowing that smoking is still legally possible today on the open docks. Other countries, such as the Netherlands, banned smoking from docks in 2020. Minister, are you in favour of a ban on smoking throughout the station, including on the docks and at the entrances to the station buildings? What measures do you envisage in this context? Are there other pilot projects planned? What is the timing of the implementation of the Malines project and what results are expected?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u60	Mr President, Mrs Buyst, Mrs Jiroflée, Mr Roggeman, Mr Parent, SNCB wants to be the backbone of sustainable and green mobility, and I also want to be the Minister for Mobility. SNCB wishes to use completely non-smoking stations and platforms. That is entirely in line with my personal vision of public health. Mr Roggeman, I would like to point out that smoking is the main avoidable cause of cancer. Organisations like Kom op tegen Kanker therefore constantly remind you that even those who unintentionally smoke more suffer harmful health effects. This applies to both adults and children and unborn children. I think that my colleagues have provided other arguments on this, which I think are quite relevant. Currently, smoking is already prohibited at railway stations and on covered docks. The Railway Police Act still stipulates that open-air smoking is permitted on the docks, so that the Act will have to be amended so that a total ban on smoking can be enforced. I asked my firm to look at the next steps to achieve this. With SNCB, work is under way. The offense already exists today. Only its scope should be extended. Consequently, the law is likely to continue to apply as it is today as regards the determination and sanction. A final answer to this will, of course, only be available when a legislative amendment is discussed in Parliament. In the meantime, however, SNCB wishes to take initiatives itself and has therefore responded positively to the request made by the city of Mechelen for consultation. She proposed a meeting with the city of Mechelen to explore the possibilities of a possible pilot project. Mr Parent, to the best of my knowledge, there are no other pilot projects of this type to date, but they will also be welcomed, if necessary. Mr Roggeman, the SNCB customer service does not have the specific figures relating to the complaints you asked for.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u61	Mr Minister, I am very concerned about this issue. I am very pleased to hear that SNCB wants to evolve along the lines of railways in our neighbouring countries into completely non-smoking stations and platforms. It is not a question of culpabilising smokers, but, above all, of keeping non-smokers, especially young people and children, out of the smoke. Pilot projects, as requested by the city of Mechelen, are a way to see how SNCB can best roll this out. As I said in my question, a lot of sports fields, playgrounds and public buildings have been made smoke-free in recent years. It has really been proven that by making smoking-free as many places as possible where children and young people come together, we ensure that smoke-free becomes the norm in society and that children are more resilient when it comes to making the choice between taking the cigarette or not. Our group will take the initiative to amend the law. We welcome the positive reactions of SNCB and many travellers. I'm sure this will be continued.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u62	Minister, I am glad to hear that you and SNCB agree on this. I hear your good intentions to change the law. As for my colleague, I am concerned about this issue. It means a lot to public health in the future if we really get rid of the cigarette. I would suggest that if the amendment of the law were to be delayed for a while, you or SNCB would be looking for further pilot projects. This will probably be easier for the opponents than an immediate ban. We have often seen that if a local community supports something, or if an action is taken, it will come naturally. Of course, I do not want to say that you do not need to change your legislation, but if it does take a while, a number of other pilot projects can be set up in a number of stations. It's just a suggestion. In any case, I am very pleased with your answer. We will continue to follow this up.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u63	Mr Minister, I take note of the fact that the SNCB customer service has no knowledge of complaints about nuisance caused by cigarette smoke in the vicinity of stations or open platforms. The fact that you don't smoke on the train, in the station, on a covered platform makes sense. That's obvious. I find it much less logical to ban smoking in the vicinity of entrances to stations, as it is intended in Mechelen. The intervention of the government in everything about smoking is already very large today. It is actively discouraged, rightly so. There are many local authorities and regional authorities carrying out active health campaigns to remind people of the risks of smoking. That is entirely justified. It is also financially discouraged by the federal government, although perhaps it is more concerned with the interests of the state treasury than with the interests of the people. However, if, despite all the awareness campaigns and the knowledge of the risks of smoking, people decide to smoke in the open air, in locations where other people are not affected, then that should be possible. Then why ban it? Then it's not up to the State to patronize and tell people what's good and bad for them, as if they don't know it themselves? You're the Minister of Mobility, please don't be a minister of patronization.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u64	Minister, thank you. I am very satisfied with both your responses and the momentum that is taking place at the SNCB level. Indeed, we must continue on two aspects, first of all on the legal side, as my colleague Kim Buyst has said. We must take the initiative, as parliamentarians, on this matter. In addition, pilot projects must also continue. The educational aspect is particularly interesting. In conclusion, I would like to recall one element of this debate. I hear we're talking about freedom. In the name of road safety, the freedom to travel at 200 km per hour on the opposite side of the highway no longer exists because it is forbidden. The freedom to move without wearing the seat belt no longer exists, it is forbidden. Parking on a crossing is prohibited. Freedom must sometimes be regulated, especially when there are deaths and prevention issues for the population are at stake. Here, we put public health above everything. There are 14,000 deaths every year, not to mention hospitalized people, families affected, children who are victims of passive smoking. Yes, we have to move on. The SNCB must be exemplary and I do not understand that today, in 2021, we can still, supposedly in the name of freedom, challenge this type of approach.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u65	Mr Troosters, SNCB informs me that the distinction you are referring to has logistical reasons. Multi's through the Family Union are printed in bulk and distributed at a later date. For this reason, they cannot be made valid from the date of purchase. SNCB is not currently planning a review of the current validity regime. Research shows that almost all Multi's are purchased on the day of first use. As a result, it does not seem to be a problem to allow validity to begin on the day of purchase.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u66	Thank you, Minister, for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u67	Mr Minister, the airport inspectors who were originally trained as police inspectors were transferred to Brussels Airport Company (BAC), the airport operator at the privatisation of the airport in 2004. The legislator initially wanted the airport inspectors to be independent of the airport operator and to receive their assignments and mandates from the Directorate General for Aviation (DGLV). Over the years, however, there has been a growing lack of clarity about who controls them. In practice, they have become the plaything of the DGLV, the federal police and Brussels Airport Company, with all the consequences for the working conditions of the inspectors, but also for airport safety. For example, the increasing number of controls carried out by private monitoring firms also causes problems in practice. Minister, how many airport inspectors, in full-time equivalents, are there working at Brussels Airport today? How many were that at the time of the police transfer to Brussels Airport Company in 2004? Who is responsible for maintaining the airport inspectors' personnel framework? Who is responsible for their working conditions and work schedules? From the answer to my written question No. 340 shows that BAC is now responsible for the training of airport inspectors, while they are required to pass their exams for DGLV. In its final report, the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry on the attacks recommended that the airport inspectors should be headed by the government. Brussels Airport Company is still mainly a private company run by some foreign pension funds. This practice is also contrary to the law of 27 June 1937, which provides that airport inspectors may not receive instructions from the airport operator in the exercise of their powers. How do you look at these contradictions? Will you bring the airport inspectors back under DGLV, the competent government, instead of under BAC? How do you see the status of airport inspectors in the future? How are you looking at the increase in private security companies at our national airport?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u68	Madam President, Mrs Vindevoghel, first of all, no figures are available for 2004. In 2006, there were 91 FTEs or full-time airport inspectors. Today, 85 FTE airport inspectors have been included in the staff framework, excluding the temporarily reduced occupation due to the covid crisis. In order to compare those figures, account should be taken, inter alia, of the transfer of tasks over time to, inter alia, the Federal Police, Security Directorate, which in 2018 took over the security tasks of the airport inspection for a total of 58 FTEs. Secondly, as the airport inspectors' employer, BAC is responsible for working conditions and timetables. Thirdly, in the case of the privatisation of the airport in 2004, it was by no means the legislator's intention that the airport inspectors should continue to operate independently of the airport operator. Airport inspectors shall be under the authority of the Deputy Chief Inspector of Airport Inspection, an employee of BAC, designated by BAC and DGLV and given a mandate by DGLV in accordance with Article 17 of the Royal Decree of 1999. Airport inspectors receive a mandate from DGLV for the performance of certain tasks, for which special competence is required. The training is provided by the employer, examinations are partly taken by the employer and partly by DGLV. The airport operator BAC fills out its security responsibilities under the supervision of DGLV, which acts as a supervisory authority in accordance with European regulations. Both DGLV and the European Commission carry out inspections and audits in order to establish compliance with current legislation. Fourthly, the security agents of the private security firms at the airport are there not as a security officer within the meaning of the private and special security law but as an auxiliary agent of airport inspection or security with a mandate from DGLV. They are also under the authority of the Deputy Superintendent. Their activities shall also be inspected and audited by the supervisory authority, as laid down in European Union rules.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u69	Mr Minister, you keep saying that Brussels Airport is responsible for both working conditions and timetables, while the recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry have clearly shown that it is important for the airport inspection to fall within the competence of the public authorities. Brussels Airport is a private company and not a public company. It is not okay that Brussels Airport bears responsibility for the inspection of safety at the airport. We fear that this will be at the expense of safety, because there are sometimes too few staff. We must not forget the attacks of March 2016. There have been lessons learned from that which we must not forget. Safety at the airport is very important.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u70	Minister, a recent survey of citizens of eleven Member States of the European Union has shown us that as many as 84% of Belgian drivers do not always take the traffic rules into account. In other areas, such as courtesy in traffic, we are among the worst students in the class. According to the spokesperson of Vias, it is a matter of mentality. That will certainly be the case, but perhaps part of the explanation is also due to the fact that our road code is outdated and urgently needs simplification and modernisation. That brings us to the coalition agreement. What progress has been made on the revision of the road code that you have planned? When can a preliminary draft be expected? At the beginning of January 2021, your cabinet delivered a note containing the legal analysis to Flemish minister Lydia Peeters. What's her reaction? There is also a project to evaluate the road code especially for the benefit of active road users. The first stage would be to define which items in the road code absolutely need to be adapted. In the meantime, has that stage been completed and can you explain which articles need to be revised? What would be the timing of the review? In a second phase, a broader survey of all interested parties would be organised. Has that phase started yet? Which parties are involved? When will the results of the survey be published?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u71	Mr Raskin, on 16 February 2021, my cabinet received the position of the Flemish administration on the note containing a legal analysis of powers. For the sake of clarity, it is not a formal position of Minister Peeters or of the Flemish Government but a purely administrative view of the Department of Mobility and Public Works on the note in question. The position of the Flemish administration is currently being analysed. On this basis, it will be examined how best to finalise the project in consultation with the three regions. All partners are keen to make progress. A first meeting will be held in June 2021. We work as quickly as possible, but with respect for the consultation of the regions. That doesn't make working faster or easier. Thirdly, in a first stage, my administration has identified, on the basis of the requests for modifications to the road code received over the years, a number of articles for which an adjustment may be necessary. It is intended that the voice of other interested parties should be heard as well before I communicate on concrete measures. So first there are consultations and consultations; then I will put forward clear proposals. This morning, this is very topical and a scoop for you was questioned by the members of the Federal Road Safety Commission. The members of the FCFV are free to disseminate that questionnaire to their members if they consider it useful. The whole idea of all this is to come up with a draft of amended traffic regulations to promote active road users on the basis of all the answers and proposals received. The results are intended as input for the work of the administration, which, together with my cabinet and the partners, is working very actively on the project.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u72	Minister, we will soon reach Lukaku's score this afternoon in terms of scoops!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u73	It's not an "assist," it's a scoop!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u74	Yes, let's go on like this!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u75	Minister, in my previous question on the driving licence, I have already said that haste and urgency are rarely good. I assume that goes on here, too. We know from the previous legislature how complex the exercise is. I don't want to put any enormous pressure on you. I understand that some sort of official vision has come from Flanders. Let us hope that this will also be the case soon for the other regions, because in June the federal government will sit down with the Regions for the first time. Meanwhile, all stakeholders are also questioned. You don't want to do preliminaries there, which I understand and respect, but the process is ongoing. I will continue to follow the process and question you about it in due course.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u76	Mr President, Mr De Spiegeleer, SNCB informs me that the number of customers taking the train at the stations where parking places have already been made paying has not decreased. SNCB itself perceives an intermodal shift to the bicycle and other soft or active modes of transport. SNCB mainly switches to paying parking to ensure a place for train passengers. It is the train offering that persuades the customers to take the train. The payment of parking spaces does not, in general, constitute an irrecoverable obstacle. SNCB shall draw up a joint mobility plan each time in consultation with the local authorities. This also applies to the station parking of Haaltert. There will also be a new access road, in accordance with the terms of the agreement between ILVA and SNCB, with agreement of the Flemish Agency for Roads and Traffic, the city of Aalst, and the municipality of Haaltert. SNCB expects the works to start this autumn. Specifically for Haurt's car park, SNCB plans almost 200 parking spaces for cars, more than 200 parking spaces for regular bicycles, and 16 for special bicycles. The number of parking spaces for soft transport modes will therefore be higher than the number of parking spaces for cars. SNCB therefore aims to change the mindset of its customers who live close to the station and can come by bike to the station.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u77	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I note that SNCB is aiming for a change of mind among its customers. Perhaps SNCB should also aim for a mentality change in itself. After all, it is clear that it continues to be stubborn in making the station parkings pay, not least in the typical commuting municipalities such as Haaltert. Ede's station parking has been made paying since 2019, but is almost empty every day. It may have escaped SNCB, but we have entered the 21st century for several years and have also experienced a corona crisis, which has and will continue to change working and commuting methods. These are all things that reduce commuters' income. Instead of doing everything possible to keep the commuter on board or to get it back on board, SNCB, strange as it is, is doing just the opposite and makes the parkings paying. This is an antisocial measure that drives the commuter away and is a textbook example of lack of vision and touch with the terrain. That's too bad. Ladies and gentlemen, as a bouncer, I would like to give you Minister Gilkinet's answer to my written question on the number of paying station parkings in the red-green Brussels-Capital Region. There are 35 stations and stops, of which one is paying. So it seems that soft mobility is not so important. However, the commuter to that Brussels-Capital Region pays not only commuters. He is also confronted with the antisocial LEZ zones, but as a icing on the cake he also has to pay for the station parkings where he takes the train to that region. I find that painfully cynical.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u78	Mr Ducarme is not logged in to ask his question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u79	Mr. Secretary, the corona crisis made the number of travellers jump. Not only the railway companies experienced a great economic impact, but also the concessionaires of the many cases in stations saw a lot less train passengers coming on the floor. According to the Neutral Syndicate for Self-employed and Horeca Brussels, the self-employed in the stations have seen their turnover fall by up to 80%. They therefore call on SNCB to cater for catering and shops in stations. SNCB had already made a proposal whereby the operators of the shops in the stations received a delay of payment and a 20% discount. For a lot of things, because of the huge fall in turnover, that is obviously not enough. The organizations have already sat with you. A new meeting with SNCB is also planned, or it has already passed. How many cases have already used deferment of payment? Does each concessionaire automatically receive the 20% discount? How many cases or concessionaires deposited the books during the corona crisis and were no longer reopened? What additional efforts does SNCB intend to make to meet the many self-employed in its stations?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u80	Part of my answer is in French, as Mr Ducarme had also put a question on it. Unfortunately, Covid has affected and continues to affect all parts of our society. It remains a difficult situation for everyone. We must constantly be alert and ready to respond to the major challenges. Like you, I am well aware of the consequences of health measures. I am very concerned about the future of all concessionaires. After all, they keep our stations alive. I hope for recovery as soon as possible. I hope that the gradual end of health measures will contribute to this recovery. The new version of the Ministerial Order Covid which was published on 4 June provides for a new paragraph 5 in Article 25 concerning the consumption of food at stations and on docks, explaining that the mask can be removed occasionally to eat and drink and when the wearing of the mask is impossible due to the nature of the activity. In addition to the many other measures taken by the federal government in support of the economic sectors affected by health measures, including the horeca sector, SNCB has developed a trade action plan to facilitate recovery. As you mentioned, this is beyond the fact that part of the royalties is proportional to turnover and has therefore mechanically decreased by a reduction in the monthly fee, by the postponement of the payment of these fees from March to December via a 24-month interest-free clearance plan and by a six-month contract extension. My firm met with the Horeca Brussels Federation and the SNI on 12 May. They expressed their concerns. These were directly relayed to the SNCB, which, at my request, met with the Horeca Federation at the end of May. Following this meeting, SNCB is considering the possibility of extending the duration of concession contracts. A second meeting was also scheduled. SNCB shall keep in constant contact with all commercial activities in the stations. It is fully at their disposal to examine specific requests. I have therefore asked SNCB to do everything in its power to find solutions to support these companies as well as possible. It goes without saying that these activities are developing outside the framework of the 2008 SNCB management contract with which I have to operate. Ms Verhaert, on 17 May 2021, three quarters of the concessions were opened, of which around 70% of the food shops and around 80% of the non-food shops. SNCB had registered two bankruptcies for the whole country at the beginning of this year and eight applications for termination of the contract. These are concessionaires who were in difficulty before the corona crisis. SNCB has a total of more than 400 concessions throughout the country. New concessions are still being opened, such as recently in the stations Brussels-South, Brussels-North and Liège-Guillemins.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u81	Mr Minister, shops in or at the stations are indeed counting on the influx of travellers for their customers. The station is therefore a real hub that offers entrepreneurs a lot of opportunities. With the spectacular fall in passenger numbers during the crisis, that potential disappeared. The concessionaires still cannot fully count on the train commuters. It is a good thing that SNCB wants to make a concession to meet the concessionaires. They were also asked to give their best support. Every bankruptcy is too much. I hope, of course, that there will not be any more bankruptcies, because the numbers of travellers are far from being at the normal level.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u82	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l 55017885C and 55017886C by Mrs Buyst are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u83	Mr President, in order to move forward, I would like to refer to my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u84	Firstly, Regulation EU 2019/2144 on the general safety of vehicles, which was adopted in November 2019, indeed states that a number of new safety systems should be installed on motor vehicles. That ambitious Regulation will significantly increase the level of safety of vehicles from 2022, when the first vehicles equipped with those devices will be placed on the market. It is now up to the European Commission to finalise the implementing regulations specifying the technical requirements for each of the systems. The technical requirements for the safety systems should be specified in a separate delegated act for each system. Those delegated acts have already been adopted or will be adopted shortly. As regards intelligent speed adjustment (ISA), the technical requirements should be laid down in a delegated act to be published before the summer. Since it is a delegated act, the publication of the Regulation is a prerogatives of the European Mobility Commission and the room for manoeuvre of the Member States is limited. The experts of the FPS Mobility and Transport are involved in the ongoing discussions within the Technical Committee, together with the experts of the Commission and of the other Member States. I can assure you that they are in favour of the highest possible level of ambition in that committee. However, it is too early to predict the content of the Commission's final decision and the level of ambition of the text. In any case, it will be the fruit of a compromise between all the Member States. Secondly, since it is a European regulation, the provisions of the regulation and its implementing acts are fully and directly applicable in all Member States. Therefore, Belgium should not transpose that European regulation and should not take any additional measures. Thirdly, the regulation does not contain any specific provisions for the existing fleet and the Commission does not intend to impose new requirements in the short or medium term. Fourthly, some safety systems may eventually become interesting tools in punishing traffic offenders, in particular recidivists. However, we are still in the research phase and it is too early to talk about this with my colleagues. We are awaiting the results of the pilot projects running at Vias, including a project around the black box.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u85	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I am pleased that our country has an ambitious position in the technical preparation of the regulation. However, I remain concerned about the end result. When I see how the texts on intelligent speed adjustment systems have already evolved, a minimum scenario seems to be chosen. It would be an audible warning when the speed limit is exceeded, which could also be switched off manually. I hope it will go on after all. We will certainly come back to the interesting pilot projects on recidivism.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u86	Mr President, Minister, in order to save time, I refer to the written text of my two questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u87	Mr President, Minister, Zaventem Airport is an ecosystem of over 300 companies and it is the second largest economic gate in our country. In total, the airport provides more than 60,000 direct and indirect jobs in and around Flemish Brabant. These jobs are threatened by a number of things: the different noise standards in Brussels and Flanders, the illogical and dangerous escape routes and action groups addressing judges. Airlines that follow the rules of skeyes but still receive fines from Brussels do not understand that and leave for other airports. Several large companies in and around the airport have long been asking for a flight law that provides stability and legal certainty to all those who fly, live and operate in and around the airport and a sustainable and balanced solution to the noise around the airport, with the nuisance being reduced and distributed as much as possible, within the limits of the laws of nature. The coalition agreement makes the promise to strive for a flying law and a promise of results for a solution to the Brussels noise fines. Both cases are connected. These cases are necessary to resolve the mistrust between the Flemish Region, the Brussels-Capital Region and the federal state in this dossier. There are no winners and a great loser for the deadlock in this dossier, namely the aviation sector. Minister, what is the state of play in this flight law dossier? What initiatives have you taken on the flight law? In your policy statement, you announce that you will start a dialogue with all relevant actors. Has the first dialogue already taken place and what are the initial findings? Is there going to be a flight bill for this legislature? Does it seem like a solution for you to temporarily suspend noise fines, to restore confidence between the regions and thus start a constructive negotiation?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u88	Mr President, Minister, first of all, the coalition agreement provides for a solution to both noise and legal uncertainty. That is, of course, so strong that we can speak of a commitment to results. Hence my question as to what is going to happen with regard to this matter and whether the law on air transport will come into force. My second question concerns a number of flights operated by the carrier AeroLogic in which noise standards were exceeded. There would also have been cheated with certificates. Mr. Secretary, are you aware of this? What will you do to prevent such practices?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u89	As regards the use of runway 01 at Zaventem airport and noise quotas for night flights at the same Brussels-National airport, you will admit that I inherit a complex case in which each party has a particular interest, contrary to that of the neighbour. Your various questions bear witness to this. Court decisions have also been made in a variety of ways. It is therefore a dossier on which I want to work in discretion, methodically and by putting the relevant interlocutors around the table. With regard to the opinions given by the mediation services, I confirm that I receive them very regularly in various forms. I systematically follow this up, asking the Directorate-General for Air Transport (DGTA) to assess the technical and operational aspects of this and, where necessary, I ask the Legal Service of the SPF Mobility or the Belgian Council of State to analyse its legal aspects. The feedback that I receive from it nuances, or sometimes contradicts, the assertions of the mediation services. Analysis of a one-day flight or operations requires the availability of all data, knowledge and advanced operational expertise. This is also true of the legal aspects of this complex issue. The opinions received show, in any event, the legitimate concern of the residents of the airport – no matter where they live – and highlight areas of concern that I wish to deal with with with the necessary seriousness. In the various judgments handed down in recent months, a very large number of acts taken in the past by various ministers or secretaries of State of different governments have been challenged by the courts. It is a particularly heavy legacy today. It is not one or the other brick of the building that needs to be changed but the whole. In an attempt to achieve this, I would like to encourage dialogue with all the stakeholders, be it representatives of local residents, economic, social or political operational actors, we all need to think constructively about developing a fair and lasting solution, in order to bring peace to the local residents and stability to the sector. That is what I set out in my policy note and that I am implementing. It is for this reason that I wish to set up in the short term this platform of consultation between the various stakeholders. I can already tell you that a specification has been published in order to find a professional and independent moderator who will be able to chair and animate it. The first meeting is scheduled for July. Work on this platform will begin quickly and no subject will be taboo. A technical group was also set up at my initiative, bringing together airlines, Skeyes, Brussels National Airport, DGTA and my firm, to try to identify technical and legal avenues for improving the situation. This technical group has already met. Finally, I am very regularly discussing with Skeyes, in particular how our air traffic controller can contribute to reducing the impact of air activity on the quality of life and health of residents and improving their situation. I have the weakness to believe that we can achieve this only through an objective and systemic approach, without bias, method, pedagogy, ethics, respect and dialogue. Mrs Bury, Mr Vandenput, the flight law should be seen as a set of important elements which, once introduced, will form a legal basis that will create a stable framework for the entire airport activity of Brussels Airport. Among the various elements currently being developed, the consultation platform will be an important element that should remove the tensions that are felt in this dossier and enable everyone to express their views, but also, and above all, listen to each other and propose sustainable solutions together by consensus. You are talking about a suspension of fines, but as you are no doubt aware, these fines are imposed under Brussels regional law and therefore, given the separation of powers, do not fall within my competence. They're the result of court decisions that I respect, of course.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u90	Minister, thank you for your answer. There is no doubt that this is a complicated case with a whole story. I will not deny you on this point. You have sometimes insisted on certain episodes of this one. In any event, the nuisances worsened in the Brussels region, since 2003, when Mrs Durant first opened the case, and especially in the eastern part of Brussels. The nuisances are extremely serious. They affect the health of residents. As far as methodology is concerned, I agree with the principles of methodology, with the way in which you want to work. So I will not contradict you on this point. I simply hope that this is not a way of commissioning, delaying or not doing the work. From then on, I will be attentive to the timetable. The last ministers before you tried to postpone the matter to a later date so as not to decide the matter. Despite the delicate nature of the case, it is very important to ensure that residents, especially Brussels residents, who are very numerous given the density of the population, are not left behind in the economic development of the airport. I can hear you on the issue of fines. It would indeed be very shocking to go along with what Mr Vandenput suggested, namely the suspension of the fines. You have rightly said that this is a court decision. I would have liked you to confirm that, politically, a suspension of these fines would be considered quite scandalous. As far as the night is concerned, it would be important and interesting for all the residents that a quiet night be planned in and around the airport, as foreseen by the European night. On a point like this, there is no need to wait for a discussion since I understand that there is a consensus on this. The stability that Mr Vandenput demands for this airport will come if we reach agreement with the residents. It was by getting along with these that Schiphol was able to develop. As long as the airport develops at the expense of the residents, there will be no stability. Indeed, rightfully, they will make their voices heard so that their health and environment are not harmed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u91	Minister, it is indeed not an easy file that you have inherited. It is Mrs Durant who, in 2003, said Mr Dallemagne, perhaps it had started a little later. During the period 2008-2009 there was a stable framework with the Schouppe plan. That wasn't a plan, it was two decisions the government made. It remained stable until a certain Melchior Wathelet started organising flights over Bosvoorde one-sidedly in 2014. Then the dolls started dancing. Mr Wathelet has put a lot into the soup. That is the reality. Some of the previous government agreements have already included the need for a flight law. This is necessary because a number of very unsafe and illogical routes need to be used today. To get back on the Brussels noise fines, a pilot who receives instructions from skyes to take off on a certain route can lose his license if he doesn't follow it. So he executes them and then he gets fines. That is quite illogical, and I think we should just deal with it. The only method is either to agree with the Brussels-Capital Region not to collect fines until there is a flying law, or to refederalise the whole thing and, by extension, re-federalise the whole Environment, so that it remains logical for our small country. I also hear Mr Dallemagne arguing in favour of extending the night. We are of course not in favour of this, because if the night is extended from 10 p.m. to 7 p.m. there will be enormous economic damage. You should know that charters fly between 6:00 and 7:00 and that other aircraft will also be available. We believe that this legislative period should be established and that initiatives should also be taken. Maybe Parliament should think about it and write a resolution itself, make recommendations and join in, so that Brussels does not become a city airport but remains an airport city with an airport that grows and does not run down.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u92	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You referred to the consultation platform and you showed the king of vagueness on the question of where we stand now and when the flight law will come into effect. I know it's been a big problem for decades. The coalition agreement states that a solution will be sought. I have not received a concrete answer at all. I did not receive an answer to my second question as to whether you are aware of the social penalties. I did not get an answer to my question as to who is playing with the noise.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u93	Minister, Mrs Bury is asking for a partial or partial answer to her second question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u94	Mr President, Mrs Bury, Mr Vandenput asked the same question at the last committee meeting. I answered them then. I am prepared to answer your question again if you submit a new question. You can also read the report of the previous committee meeting with the answers I gave to Mr Vandenput on this point.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u95	Mr President, Minister, I shall reread the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u96	Mr President, Minister, in mid-May you had a physical meeting with your French colleague responsible for the railways about future joint projects and cooperation and the integration of both rail networks. Wallonia already has six international rail links with France today, Flanders today has zero. The last direct line from Flanders to France between Adinkerke and Dunkerke was dismantled in 2014. I have the following questions. What is the estimate of the number of passengers using international train connections to France on a daily basis? What common rail projects are there with the French railways today? Do you have any new projects or collaborations with France in mind? If so, which one? Will the further development of rail freight lines to France be used? At which locations can additional facilities be developed? What is your vision of the future with regard to cross-border rail links, especially the small number from Flanders? Aren't there opportunities for improvement?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u97	"Mr. Minister,
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u98	Thank you for your answer."
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u99	Mr Roggeman, I am for Europe and for cross-border connections in all directions: the Netherlands, France, Germany... That is my way of working and I am therefore a little surprised by your question. SNCB offers daily direct train connections to and from France from the three regions in cooperation with the French railways. As opposed to what you claim. First, there is the connection Kortrijk-Rijsel with 14 to 16 returns per day and an average of 2,100 passengers per day. This is a direct train connection with which one is in Tourcoing after about 25 minutes and 15 minutes later in Lille. From Brussels there are 10 daily returns with the HRT to Lille. In view of the commercial nature of this connection, SNCB cannot communicate the passenger numbers. From Bergen there are 2 daily returns to Aulnoye and from Charleroi 2 returns to Maubeuge each time for a hundred passengers per day. From Tournai there are 16 daily returns to Lille with an average of 1,750 passengers per day. As far as SNCB is concerned, there are currently no new rail projects in the pipeline. SNCB is working on optimising existing connections to France. As far as infrastructure works are concerned, the first projects which could possibly be further developed are those listed in the French-Belgian Memorandum of Understanding on strengthening cooperation in the field of mobility and cross-border transport. You will find this letter of intent dating from the end of 2018 digitally in the public domain on the website of the FPS Mobility. As regards the meeting with my French colleague, it was a pleasant meeting where several Belgian and French railway projects were discussed and which showed that Minister Djebbari and I share the same ambition for rail transport. It was agreed to keep in touch and follow up the various ongoing projects closely. Among these Franco-Belgian projects, Mr Thiébaut, is indeed the Mons-Valenciennes link. In this regard, the latest exchanges and constructive work provided by Infrabel, the administration and the members of my cabinet are to be highlighted. This case has indeed progressed since your last question. On the French side, the Deputy Prefect of Valenciennes, Mr. Chpilevski, took over the case. A working meeting was held on 15 April with French and Belgian stakeholders. On the Belgian side, the technical and budgetary situation has been confirmed. The representative of my firm also reiterated my support in principle for this project. On the French side, it turned out that the financial aspect still needed to be confirmed. The sub-prefect was in favour of the search for budgets. At the meeting, it also appeared that, for the French, the project concerned a freight link and not a passenger link. So I can reassure you, I am this file closely. It was also discussed in numerous meetings with the French Minister of Transport. To use a metaphor of the world of sport, the ball is, for the moment, in the French camp. On the Belgian side, the work was carried out, as in the case of another railway link to the Netherlands. I am regularly asked about this, and I am working on it. The electrification took place as far as Hamont. It is up to my Dutch colleague to ensure electrification to Weert. In this case, we are in the same case: it is up to the French to do the work to Valenciennes. I feel an opening on the subject, but I couldn't brag about winning the World Cup until I scored one more goal than the French in the final, Mr. Thiébaut.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u100	I get it!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u101	Minister, you seem to suggest that my explanation of the question would not be correct. Nevertheless, I can confirm that there is no direct infrastructure linking the railway networks of Flanders and France. Services as such do not change that. However, from your explanatory statement, I would like to point out that you are not planning any future infrastructure changes. I regret that, because I thought you, as an ecologist, would certainly be open to intensifying contacts. It would be worth examining the transport demand, especially given the already intensive traffic between northern France and West Flanders today. Almost 6,000 inhabitants of France are active as a frontier worker in West Flanders, which is a significant number. I have no doubt, therefore, that there is a great potential. The West Flemish companies are always asking for additional labour and the unemployment rates in Northern France are not insignificant. It is therefore an opportunity for both countries, if both needs are met by additional infrastructure between West Flanders and Northern France.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u102	Minister, thank you for your clarification of my question. A little anecdote to start my line. I don't know if you know, but the port of Antwerp is involved in reopening this link between Wallonia and France and would participate, for financing on the Walloon side, in the amount of 500,000 euros. You see that we are there in a logic that goes beyond the Wallonia-Flandre divides, since the port of Antwerp considers that the more connections between France and Belgium, the better it will be for the port. Having said that, I am glad to see that you are still supporting this project, as at my last inquiry, and that you have had contacts in France, as I am, since I am this project since 2007, so it is beginning to date. You have therefore had a confirmation that there is a political will, also on the French side, to reopen this link which is really interesting for the Valencien region and for the Mons-Borinage region in particular. Today, as I understand it, we are looking for funding on the French side, but with a clear political will. I hope that you will continue to follow this case in the coming months. I will not fail to come back to you to find out where that is.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u103	The corona crisis is particularly heavy on international train traffic, with a heavy fallback. Before corona, for example, around 30,000 people took Eurostar every day, whereas it is now around 500 people. Maybe that number is a little bit better by now. In the United Kingdom, on top of that, there was the Brexit.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u104	Mrs Vindevoghel, Mr Toventors, you already know that I am in favour of international rail links in Europe, as I said to the previous speaker. The refinancing of Eurostar, which was recently concluded, is mainly based on loans. The shareholders have secured these loans from the various banks concerned. In addition, the three shareholders, in proportion to their share of the company's capital, also supported their subsidiary in the form of an increase in capital. This capital injection by SNCB into the Eurostars company is proportional to its share of 5% in the company's capital. The choice to participate in the capital increase of its subsidiary will not affect SNCB's future investments. The origin of this share lies in the 1980s. It was then decided to invest with the Belgian Railways in the development of a high-speed rail network. Initially, the high-speed operations were operated by the parent companies, SNCB and SNCF, but after the liberalisation of international passenger transport in 2010, they were split into Thalys and Eurostar respectively. The participation of SNCB in Eurostar reflects its initial contribution to the split-off. Based on management forecasts, Eurostar's medium-term activity should once again reach and even exceed the pre-crisis level. Significant operational margins will also be achieved again. This will enable us to pay off the debts and pay dividends again in the long term. You asked me about my point of view. As you know, I am a strong supporter of international rail passenger transport. The whole government shares this view and this is also mentioned in the coalition agreement. Eurostar is one of the main operators in the development of a high-speed network. In view of its position as a shareholder and trusting partner in the first row, SNCB is in this particular segment of the railway operation. It allows us to gain knowledge. Moreover, there is a segment of the market that will become increasingly important in the future. In companies such as Thalys and Eurostar, SNCB also allows young workers to taste challenging environments. This is knowledge that the workers who have been loaned will subsequently return to the parent company, SNCB.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u105	Minister, we also consider it very important that there is a well-developed international rail transport system. However, we see once again that the public authorities have to intervene in a crisis and that the private sector in particular would disappear from the market at such moments, should there be no government. I believe that this demonstrates once again that it would be much better for international rail transport to be in public hands as well. We note that many private companies do not want to pay for the costs when it comes to cross-border rail traffic. We will continue to work for the development of cross-border rail traffic, but above all for the public sector to develop it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u106	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u107	Mr President, Minister, SNCB is launching a project to pick up fruit and vegetables at the station. For the second time in a short period, such a curious extension of the task package is announced. Not so long ago, SNCB announced that it would start renting umbrellas. My first question is therefore whether you regard the sale of vegetables by SNCB as a core task. Do you support a further broadening of the tasks package? Where are the limits? I have some ideas myself. When you talk about the promotion of the short chain, we might also be able to organize short-chain hijackings in the short chain, 'The Meat Station' or, why not, an interior shop, 'The Curtain Train', I can already see it in front of me. Or maybe, who knows, we could start a wedding agency, "The Relationship Station," I'll just name some creative ideas. Minister, where exactly do you draw the line between serious policy and stupidity? What's next? My second question is whether SNCB has a comprehensive financial plan for these activities. Moreover, can you guarantee that public funds will not be invested in such initiatives? In the past we have seen many times that things sometimes go wrong. I refer to the Court of Auditors' report of spring 2016, which shows that certain commercial activities have effectively been at the expense of public spending. I would also have liked to have heard how the selection of the four stations is made. Apparently, that offer is being launched in Ghent-Sint-Pieters, Ottignies, Liège and's-Gravenbrokel. Based on what criteria were these stations selected? Strikingly, somewhat contrary to the plowing conditions within SNCB, there are three of the selected stations located in Wallonia and one in Flanders, zero in Brussels. Is there a reason and if so, which one? I would then have liked to have obtained information on the designation of the suppliers. It is common practice for SNCB to organise a market consultation when a concession is released in a station. Is that what happened in this case? Was the usual procedure followed or not? Finally, the supermarkets and shops have been bound for a long time by restrictions on access resulting from the corona measures. Does SNCB intend to maintain the same measures with regard to the facilities at the stations? I would also like to explain this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u108	Minister, in a train station today we can do a lot of things. It is necessary to take the train from time to time to realize that the stations already house shops. We can already buy things at the stations, have access to food. The lack of knowledge on the part of some colleagues is a bit disturbing. A station is a place of life and I am delighted that SNCB is involved in a project to boost these stations. This project highlights local shops, short circuits and the sale of local products. We should be happy about this kind of partnership. It is not Mrs Dutordoir who will sell fruits and vegetables but local food players. I therefore welcome the development and launch of this pilot project, as I said a few months ago. On the occasion of the actual launch of the pilot project in May in Liège-Guillemins, Ottignies, Braine-le Comte and Ghent-Saint-Pierre – there are indeed more French-speaking cities but, as part of the express trains, there are more stations on the Dutch-speaking side and decisions will not always be measured to the letter – you said that it was possible to extend the project to other stations on the basis of criteria such as the available space and that it was necessary to adapt the logistical possibilities and local support. Can you provide details of how SNCB will participate in this producer-consumer project? What are the conditions for participation for producers? What criteria will be used to assess the success of the project? Can new partnerships already be set up at other stations, on a voluntary basis, either at the initiative of the municipalities or at the initiative of the producer networks contacted in the context of the call for tenders? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u109	Mr President, Mr Roggeman clearly does not like positive stories, creativity and innovation. SNCB's first task is to make the train run, but it is not forbidden to take new initiatives and support local producers to get lively stations. That's the point! This project is part of the plan to offer in the stations services and products that respond to what the passengers need. Stations are user-friendly and functional locations where you take the train, but they also grow into functional locations for services for rail passengers and local residents. We can only be happy with such projects. This is only about facilitating external activities by making public space available, with which we support the local economy. At this stage, four stations were selected for a one-year test. The project will be evaluated and, if it is successful with travellers and producers, it can be extended to other stations in Flanders, Wallonia and Brussels, in a clearly balanced way, as always to SNCB. SNCB makes an area available to producers and/or producer organisations for 2 to 3 hours a week. There is no cost or effort involved. A call for applications had been launched between 8 October and 9 December 2020. Some 40 applications were received. Four were retained. I personally had the opportunity to inaugurate this farm stop at the station of Braine-le-Comte and I found there entrepreneurs very happy with this collaboration with SNCB and consumers very happy to be able to find fresh and quality products when they return. The covid measures are of course applicable. The terms of sale are contractually laid down. Only orders placed and paid in advance can be collected. It is not permitted to sell and/or consume on the spot. Everything has been done in perfect compliance with the rules. This will not become the main activity of SNCB. It seems to me that this complements very usefully and very positively the offer of rail service.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u110	Thank you, Minister. We could talk about fruits and vegetables in committee. That would be a nice subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u111	Minister, I regret your faint reaction that I would be against any creative idea. For me, that's all right. I don't care if you set up a zoo in a station tomorrow, as long as the trains run decently, there is a good and affordable offer and the cost coverage is corresponding. However, in international benchmarks, SNCB still does not score well today, it can do better. I propose that we focus on this, in the interests of the company, the travellers and the people who work there, before we start with all kinds of foils to broaden the initiative.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u112	I'm not going to repeat it because we hear absurd things here... as if it prevented trains from rolling, fruits and vegetables! All right. Congratulations to SNCB on this project. This is positive for commuters and for the inhabitants of the localities concerned. I hear there's a one-year test period. I continue to believe that for a number of stations, medium and small, it would be interesting to think about partnerships with local actors active in sustainable food. From the perspective of living stations, it's interesting. I am thinking of La Hesbaye, whom I know well, at Waremme station, where very involved actors are looking for places to settle. This kind of project can be an opportunity because for there to be activity in a station, it is necessary to strengthen social control, and to develop the station as a place of life. This type of project is therefore quite part of the tasks and reflections that we have in this committee. I therefore stress the coherence of this and other projects in terms of 'living station' and in the context of the discussions you will have concerning the SNCB management contract. I therefore encourage the opening up and promotion of other projects likely to join this pilot experiment.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u113	Mr Minister, the construction of a third and a fourth track between Ghent and Bruges makes train traffic more busy and busier by Hansbeke. That, of course, causes some trouble for the locals. This was met by Infrabel through the installation of sound screens along the track. However, these noise screens are not undisputed either, because of the negative effects on local road safety. In 2019, Infrabel announced that it would also renew the station and the station environment. Firstly, what is the state of play regarding the construction of the new station and its adaptation to the station environment? What's the further phasing? According to SNCB, these works would be completed by early 2022. Will this end date be met? Secondly, does Hansbeke's station already have elevated platforms? Is that going to be dealt with, too? Is this priority always given to the renewal of stations? Thirdly, how will the demand for the installation of sound walls be met, in order to adapt and reduce them, as has already happened in Drongen? Fourthly, how will the adaptation work in the station environment have an impact on local mobility? What accompanying policy is being rolled out there? In what cooperation with local government?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u114	Mr Roggeman, in September last year the bypass was put into service. In addition, the crossing near Hansbeke station was taken out of service. Afterwards, the prefabrication of the new passenger and cyclist tunnel followed. This was put under the railway in February of this year. This tunnel is currently being completed, including access ramps and stairs. Furthermore, the new, elevated platforms are also being built, including shelters. The reconstruction of the roads around the station is also ongoing. Hansbeke's new station will indeed be put into service at the beginning of next year. The environment works will be completed in the first half of next year. In the event of the renewal of stations, the platforms are constantly increased. Infrabel informs me of the following about the examination of the objections lodged during the public investigation. There were indeed concerns about the sound screens in Hansbeke in some of the objections. However, all objections were found unfounded by the Flemish regional civil servant. The urban planning permit for the realisation of this project was therefore granted to Infrabel. Infrabel informs me that he is obliged to carry out the urban permit in accordance with the conditions laid down therein. All this is in accordance with the authorised plans included in the licence granted to Infrabel, including sound screens. Several mobility studies were carried out under the previous procedure. These examined the impact on local mobility, which led to the current concept of the works.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u115	I thank the Minister for his reply. I think that this dossier also underlines the importance of a good consultation of Infrabel with local authorities on the one hand and the local residents on the other. A consultation which also extends to forms other than the public investigation which is a strict administrative procedure. It is not the first incident in which Infrabel makes decisions which give the people directly concerned the impression that decisions are taken very far above their heads. It once again shows that it is important, even for Infrabel itself, to invest in consultation with the public. Infrabel itself has every interest in this in function of the smooth running of the works and its own reputation as a company.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u116	Minister, for the good information of all colleagues who are still present or connected, will you continue to answer the questions until about 6:30 p.m.?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u117	That's right.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u118	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u119	Mr President, I would like to clarify my question, because we had already written to them. Minister, an annual subscription in Liège, for example, costs no less than EUR 738, which is an absurdly high amount, knowing that the revenue from SNCB's station parkings increased by almost 75% between 2015 and 2019. The revenue is almost 15 million euros per year. There was an increase of 8.5 million euros in 2015 to 15 million euros in 2019. That's not a bad thing. We believe that SNCB uses the drivers as a cash cow and that this is not the solution to keep the commuters away from the car. My questions on this matter are as follows. How do you explain this significant increase in the parking revenues of SNCB? What exactly does SNCB use this revenue for? Does she invest the parking revenue in better public transport or in the creation of new payment parkings? How many payment parkings operated by B-Parking will be added in the coming years? Are there concrete plans or are SNCB still at the desired number of payment parkings? Will payment parkings that are barely used again be made free of charge? Negotiations for the new management contract between the State and SNCB are ongoing. Will there also be attention to the SNCB parkings? Will you drive free car and bicycle parking for the commuters?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u120	Mr President, Mr Roggeman, Mrs Vindevoghel, SNCB is indeed seeing a sharp drop in capacity utilisation in its parkings during the pandemic. This happens in parallel with the decrease in the number of rail passengers, which makes sense. That decrease therefore has a major impact on her income. However, the parking facilities have remained accessible and available throughout the pandemic. For the evolution of the use of the parking facilities in the future, SNCB closely follows the situation. As for many other stakeholders, it is a matter of waiting to see how the situation will stabilise post corona, taking into account, inter alia, the increased telework. The planned investments in the parking lots are carried out. SNCB informs me that there is no question of a price increase to cover the losses. SNCB is working on a strategic vision for intermodality for the next decade. The bike sheds and car parks are part of that strategy. The first contacts with SNCB and my staff have already taken place. One of the points I asked SNCB was about the design of new parking buildings. In particular, they should be designed in such a way that they can easily be converted for a different use in the future. For this purpose, it is important, inter alia, to provide sufficient height. SNCB tells me she can agree to that. As regards your question about the new public service contract to be concluded with SNCB: as you could read in the recently published specification, the categories of stations will be defined in the future contract on the basis of objective criteria. The contract will determine the equipment standards, the physical presence and the services offered to passengers. Accessibility and intermodality requirements will also be formulated. In all these areas, I have asked my staff to meet with SNCB ambitious goals, including with regard to parking facilities, both for bicycles and for cars. SNCB informs me that there is no decrease in the number of customers in places where they have to be paid to park. There is even an intermodal shift to the bicycle and other soft transport modes. SNCB mainly switches to paid parking to ensure a place for SNCB travellers. SNCB informs me that, before introducing paid parking, they first draw up a joint mobility plan in consultation with local authorities. SNCB also has a preferential rate for travellers on its payment parkings and a free kiss-and-ride. In addition, in cooperation with the municipalities, an attempt is made to provide a night subscription for local residents, as well as an evening and weekend rate. Mrs Vindevoghel, your question was put very late. I have already answered a question on the parking policy of SNCB in the previous committee. In another meeting, I can give you more details. SNCB's intention is to have trains run. The parking activity must be budgetaryally autonomous. That's important to me, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u121	Mr Minister, when we asked the written question, we were shocked by the amount, firstly as regards the cost to the people who use it and, secondly, as to what it brings about. It's huge sums of money. It would be much better for rail passengers to be able to park for free. There has been a lot of resistance from the people against paying parking. In Oudenaarde, for example, we see that it has become a ghost parking. People don't use them anymore. That's not supposed to happen, is it? People who take the train should be able to park their cars. They're supposed to drive less by car and take the train. The intention can't be that it costs people a lot of money. Hence our question. Can't a parking space just be included in the subscription package when people take the train?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u122	Question No 55017980C by Mrs Cornet is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u123	Mr President, Minister, the government agreement does not provide for the creation of new railway lines. Nevertheless, I would like to take stock with you of the future of line 163. The line between Bastogne and Libramont was closed to passenger traffic in May 1993. The clearance for the dismantling of the Libramont-Bastogne line was granted on 27 February 2009 and a RAVeL was created on the plate of the dismantled line. To date, the line has been included in the Monitor with the words "provisional closure". Infrabel is still the owner of the plate and the SNCB pays an annual allocation to the TEC to guarantee a bus-time relationship between these two cities. At a time when these two agglomerations continue to develop and where the socio-economic exchanges between the two cities are growing every day, I have for many years defended the return of rail between these two cities by a reliable, light and ecological transport which would link Bastogne via Libramont to the Brussels-Luxembourg axis. Solutions using light equipment (train-tram) exist and have been successfully deployed in many neighbouring countries. In parallel with the RAVeL, these two modes of transport combined would be an asset for new mobility in an otherwise touristic region. Minister, is there a potential or feasibility study on the return of rail to line 163? Do you intend to update an existing study or order a new one if necessary?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u124	Mr President, Minister, you all know that we are fighting for the reopening of line 163 in the province of Luxembourg. We are therefore looking for additional arguments that could in one way or another promote this reopening. Minister, you know the Friends of Rail who are very dynamic and who are becoming more and more dynamic. You are therefore obliged to answer them. These citizens propose and defend the creation of a freight hub in Molinfaing. This is a project that we fully support since it would reduce truck traffic on roads in the province of Luxembourg. Storage and loading possibilities for combined traffic would be provided at the freight site. Freight traffic would pass through the Gouvy sawmill via Bastogne to join Molinfaing. Cars from Red Cross/Stalle/Marbehan could be integrated into the convoys. The 163 line passes, in fact, near the zonings. Minister, how does SNCB position itself in relation to this project? As the appropriate minister, are you prepared to ask SNCB to make the necessary investments to make this happen? My second question concerns the reopening of line 163. The development plan for the Walloon Region foresees four measures for the development of the railway network for the next few years, including the reopening of the line 163 Libramont-Bastogne. The reopening of this line is requested by many citizens of the province of Luxembourg. It would significantly reduce traffic by road. Minister, are you in contact with the Walloon Region on this matter? Will you encourage this project? Is it possible to deploy a two-lane line that would be parallel to the RAVeL?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u125	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your patience and perseverance, which, in this and other cases, is well known. You know the history of this line 163, which was recalled by Mrs. Thibaut, from the end of its operation until the crossing of the line in 2011. Since then, Infrabel has been obliged to keep the plate of this line intact, so as to allow it to be reconstructed one day, if the traffic required it and if the choice was stopped. The infrastructure manager assumes this responsibility and will continue to do so. The implementation of the RAVeL at this location does not alter the present situation or the rule I have just set out. If it were decided, one day, to rehabilitate this line, it would be necessary to speak of reconstruction, because almost 30 years after it was decommissioned and 10 years after it was dismantled, the plate of the track is covered with vegetation. Therefore, this operation would require the provision of substantial budgets for its implementation. We are well aware of the interest reserved for him. This project often returns, even through your questions, to the front of the stage. I was also questioned about this by the ASBL Friends of Rail Halanzy. The needs for rail are enormous. Many investments are essential for its renewal. You know my determination to find additional means, notably through the European Recovery and Resilience Plan. However, choices must be made as to their assignment. The possible development of such a project requires multiple upstream steps, which is why I asked SNCB whether a new potential study had already been carried out or could be carried out for this line. Similarly, I asked Infrabel about the existence of a feasibility study for reconstruction and its compatibility with the RAVeL project. It is essential to have such information, regardless of the decision that would ultimately be taken. Therefore, I await these answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u126	Minister, thank you. We are well aware that the government agreement does not provide for the creation of new lines. This is a reopening. As far as this study is concerned, the investigations you could conduct would really be a icing on the cake because there is a wait. Three parties are asking the question today. The associative community is also very active about this reopening. I look forward to reading the responses of both SNCB and Infrabel. There is a broad consensus on this issue, and I am sure you will be attentive to the follow-up to this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u127	Minister, thank you for your answer, but do not just ask for advice and study! Hit your fist on the table! We need a minister who punches on the table.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u128	Mr President, I forgot the question about Molinfaing. Excuse me! I don't know if the answer will satisfy you in substance, Mr Arens, but I still want to give it to you. Your question no longer concerns SNCB because the transport of goods by rail has been liberalised at European level since 2007. Since then, SNCB's merchandise business has been filialized and then privatized. It is now up to private operators to exploit the potential of the rail freight market. On the other hand, to reassure you a little, you know my intentions and those of the government regarding the deployment of rail freight as a safe and low-polluting means of transportation. I am currently busy meeting the various actors in the transport of goods with the aim of developing a modal report plan towards the rail. The objective we have set ourselves is to double the volume of goods transported by rail. It is essential that a rail freight convoy can replace at least 50 heavy goods vehicles with positive effects in terms of mobility, safety, public health and climate. Like any other project, Molinfaing's, if economic operators are applicants, will be analysed according to its potential in relation to its cost. I try to allocate the means where they are most necessary and most useful to move the lines and, indeed, to reduce the volume of goods transported by road, but also to allow entrepreneurs the freedom to borrow the train.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u129	Minister, thank you for your answer. This one does not disappoint me as much as you feared, since it contains only positive elements. The whole thing is to concretise and insist with the various operators that this route exists, that line 163 is rebuilt, is reopened and that everything must be done to ensure that it is fully profitable. So I'm counting on you to punch on the board table of SNCB and entrepreneurs to clearly show them the policy that is most interesting at the environmental level. And, as you said yourself, compared to road transport, we know that rail transport is much less polluting and much more interesting for all.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u130	Mr President, Minister, like my colleagues, I remain relatively positive about the answers you have given today to the question of this line, which has real potential within the territory of the province of Luxembourg. Now I would be curious to know exactly what criteria were used to formulate the current study, which I hope will receive the conclusions. Because, in terms of the potential for commuters, of the basic experience we have in the field, it will certainly be able to meet a demand. I note that you're not necessarily against reopening lines. I take note of this for other potential projects and look forward to the results of this study.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u131	Mr Vandenput, first of all allow me to congratulate Brussels Airport on Stargate. It is a beautiful intermodality project on which the airport works, a project for which Brussels Airport itself, together with other airports, has received a European grant. It will not only benefit passengers at Brussels Airport, but also the staff working at the airport as well as the business cluster around it. I welcome the fact that the airport in this project is working with SNCB. Currently, the FPS Mobility and Transport has carried out a study to assess the possibilities of replacing certain short-haul flights with international trains. The study will also analyse the development of the international link with Brussels-National. Consultations will be planned with actors in both the Belgian and European aviation and rail sectors. The final results are expected by September 2021, but Thalys is not covered by the public utility contract. It is a fully commercial operation and does not receive any dotation for this. A commercial company must lay lines where they are profitable. The stop in Zaventem was in no way in the past and was adapted for a while by the BAC, which quit a few years ago. I would like to point out that whatever the possibilities that emerge from the study, they will take place in the context of a liberalised market, in other words through the so-called open access in the European rail sector. The same comment should be made about the orientation of high-speed trains along the airport. The commercial attractiveness of the connections should therefore be taken into account. I come to your question about the stop point at the airport for the train between Brussels and Amsterdam. In this context, SNCB informs me that a review of the existing direct link between Brussels Airport and Amsterdam is not on the agenda today. The cooperation contract between SNCB and the NS for this connection runs until December 2024. It provides a direct connection between Brussels Airport and number of major cities in the Netherlands, 16 times a day in both directions. It is therefore 32 daily trains, both on weekdays and weekends.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic524x.u132	Mr Minister, that is good news about the Brussels Airport-Amsterdam connection. I am also pleased to hear that the FOD is investigating the possibility of an HST connection at Brussels Airport. I think that's crucial. If we want to stop short-haul flights, we need an international connection, with Eurostar and Thalys, to replace them. Otherwise, this will be at the expense of employment at the airport. After all, today Belgians are taking refuge in the airports of Paris and Amsterdam, it is a pity that they do not take off from Brussels. The neighbouring airports of Paris, London, Frankfurt and Amsterdam have high-speed connections. If we don't invest in this, our airport will implode. That's not the vision I have, as Flemish-Brabander, at the airport. Thank you for your answer. In the autumn we will look at the results of this study.
