ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic414x.u1	Madam Minister, in previous meetings we have already discussed in detail the disciplinary procedures against police officers, which are very complex today. Pano's report revealed that the leaders of the police could hardly bring the disciplinary procedure to a successful conclusion. In fact, it was said that almost every case that is started is due to a procedural error. Disciplinary laws should not be so much stricter as they should be simplified and applied more quickly. It is too difficult today to effectively punish serious facts within the Corps. The legislation needs to be clearly simplified. Madam Secretary, you announced that talks with the trade unions on reform of the disciplinary law have begun. How are these conversations going? What is the state of play in the ongoing discussions? An independent disciplinary college was proposed by several bodies. How do you feel about that idea?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic414x.u2	Mrs. Chanson apologized for illness.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic414x.u3	Mr President, Madam Minister, if you'll excuse me for being late, I was in discussion with representatives of the Court of Auditors. Madam Minister, we have already asked you about this, and in plenary on October 4, you responded to the VRT's report on police violence. This report, particularly shocking of your own admission, highlighted so-called unacceptable behaviour and the difficulties encountered in punishing them. I had to ask you more recently about the issue of whistleblowers in the police. I would like to return to three points. First of all, you mentioned that the law on the discipline of law enforcement should be reviewed, and we are very much in agreement with you. Nevertheless, we would like to know what steps have been taken in this context and what timetable you are considering to review this procedure. Secondly, with regard to the particular attention you need to be given to future recruitment procedures, we again believe that this is a matter of focus. What kind of measures are you considering and what is the timetable? Finally, it appears from the VRT report that many heads of bodies complain about the lack of means to put an end to the actions of "pumps clearly identified in their bodies". Your reactions are very much about the future, about how you're going to reform things. What of the present? What can be done immediately to put an end to this system and to allow disciplinary authorities to do their job?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic414x.u4	Mr President, Madam Minister, you, like all of us, have had the displeasure of watching the VRT report on police violence. The shocking images that once again tell us that the problem within our police forces is structural. Questioned at the plenary meeting on 4 March last, you reiterated your willingness to apply zero tolerance in this regard. You rightly pointed out that many police officers find these acts of violence unacceptable. You have also indicated that police officers must feel free to report incidents of violence, so that the necessary investigations can be conducted. However, there is a genuine omerta in the police forces with regard to this type of incident. This has been denounced again by Paul Jacobs of the police school, or by Committee P, who talks about "culture of silence". It seems that the hierarchy does not act, that the superiors do not denounce and punish racism and violence. It is often the whistleblowers themselves who are punished, as was once again seen in the case of the racist police officers of Anderlecht. The establishment of a hotline to allow police officers to anonymously report violence against or witness to them is therefore particularly urgent. I had already questioned you last February on this point, without obtaining your position. I would therefore like to receive a specific answer from you on this matter. Minister, do you intend to set up a green number allowing police officers to anonymously report abuses of integrity and, if so, within what time frame? If not, why? Do you intend to extend the duration of the police training, following the call of the criminologist Sofie De Kimpe? What follow-up do you intend to give to this VRT report?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic414x.u5	Madam Minister, we have already had a number of debates on how to combat violence against, but also by the police. There are certainly positive signals that I have heard from you before the reportage here on the committee. Like you, I can only confirm that many police officers do their best every day to manage incidents and ensure the safety of our citizens. In addition, like you, I naturally reject excessive police violence. There are many steps to be taken to improve the relationship between police and citizens. The fact that many policemen have already left their culture of silence and find excessive violence unacceptable is an asset. An important step is to reform the disciplinary procedure in order to allow rapid and adequate disciplinary action. In your answer to an actual question from me, you also mentioned training as a key role. You questioned whether one year's training was long enough and whether lifelong training should not be used. I can vouch for that. After all, a society is constantly evolving. Madam Secretary, you have already announced that there are talks with the trade unions about the reform of that disciplinary law. Have any steps been taken in that direction? Are you considering extending the training of police officers? Were there any possible investigations on that? What can we imagine in lifelong training? Is that a time of training once or twice a year, or is that a very intensive and recurrent journey within the Corps?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic414x.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is certainly a problem if young people in Brussels feel on a large scale a feeling of insecurity, fear and non-respect in their contacts with the police. It is clear that the relationship of trust between young people and the police needs to be strengthened. Besides, I firmly believe in the local police. Police officers need to know the neighborhood, as well as the youth and their parents. A local approach is needed and can help reduce the distance between youth and the police. There are many initiatives and projects to restore trust and respect between youth and the police. For more detailed information on concrete examples of bottom-up projects in this context, I refer to Mr Moyaers' question on actions to improve the relationship between the police and young people. A national campaign will be organized. Its starting point will be the concept of respect shown to and by police officers and officers as well as relief services. We must also make more efforts in terms of diversity within the police force. At present, we are developing other initiatives to reach out to more young people, thereby strengthening the relationship of trust between youth and the police. In this context, multidisciplinary collaboration is of course important as well as close collaboration with local governments. During my visit to the Brussels Midi police area two weeks ago, I was able to see this with the mayors and the chiefs of corps. I can also count on the support of Mr Kompany, whom I met last week, and with whom other avenues have been mentioned. The figures shown are valuable and indicate a direction, a signal that needs to be taken seriously. On the other hand, it is necessary to be more specific in terms of a serious, efficient and effective approach, involving not only the police organisation and its staff, but also many other security actors, civil society, the media and policy leaders at all levels of governance. In Flanders, Minister Dalle has taken the initiative to involve several partners, including the Brussels police zones, in initiatives and pilot projects to strengthen and promote the relationship between young people and the police. The initiative has entire Flanders as its scope. Collègue Aouasti, violence against police officers is unacceptable. Such acts cannot be accepted, nor can there be a lack of respect for police officers who do their best and take risks to ensure the safety of people. But police violence against citizens is also unacceptable. Police officers may use force, but such use must remain proportionate. If there's an overflow, we need an investigation. The majority of police officers are doing their job very well. These incidents tarnish the image of the police. As I said in the discussion of the policy statement, integrity remains the basis of the police's professional work. Yes, from a legal point of view, I am planning a reform of disciplinary law to ensure a more harmonious treatment of disciplinary matters. With regard to particular attention in future recruitment procedures, I consider it important to develop procedures for the recruitment and selection of police candidates that allow us to have a more diverse police force. We need a police force in Belgium that is the mirror of our society. Today, this is not yet the case, especially in some areas and in some neighbourhoods. We must dare to ask ourselves whether the many challenges faced by police officers in the field, both in terms of communication, psychology and violence management, can all be sufficiently addressed through a specific one-year training course. In addition, the accelerated recruitment we are currently using cannot lead to compromises in the quality of training and selection. I would also like to use a continuous learning program; classroom training is one thing, but we also learn in the field. We must also constantly draw the attention of leaders to the fact that we must adopt and protect this culture and these values from unbridled violence. Police officers need to be sensitized throughout their careers. I am thinking in particular of the neighbourhood agents who must receive specific training which will enable the local police areas to improve, in particular, their relations with young people. I note that some police officers in our country do not take any steps, but that does not mean that there is a problem of structural racism within the integrated police force. However, it was important to combat violent behaviour and inappropriate statements made by a limited number of police officers. Pending reform of the disciplinary procedure, the 1999 Act remains applicable. According to the VRT report, the local police chiefs complain about the lack of resources to put an end to the actions of police officers. It appears from the provisions of the Disciplinary Act that local police personnel whose conduct is likely to justify a heavy penalty are subject to the disciplinary authority of the mayor or the police college for members of the cadre of police officers, basic and middle managers, as well as officers, with the exception of senior officers and chiefs of corps. They are therefore not subject to the disciplinary authority of the chief of corps of the police zone concerned. In the case of senior officers and chiefs of corps, the Minister of the Interior is designated as the superior disciplinary authority. Disciplinary procedures relating to possible disciplinary transgressions that may lead to heavy penalties are managed outside the police area's management, either by the mayor or police college or by the Minister of the Interior, thereby reducing the burden of police areas to a disciplinary level. Pending the completion of the reform of the disciplinary law, which will ensure a smoother handling of cases, and in parallel with the elements described above, special attention should be given to prevention through continuous training. With regard to the police officers already in office, the ongoing training "Holocaust, police and human rights" finds its place alongside other initiatives aimed at combating racism and discrimination in general. A constant evaluation of the module allows you to see what works and what needs to be improved. A second module exists for managers and focuses on integrity. Finally, "Holocaust, police and human rights" is now reinforced by the "Polarization" training, which offers solid tools for dialogue within an increasingly polarized society. I also remind you that I signed a new cooperation agreement last December between the integrated police and the Dossin barracks. Unia also accompanies us in the training of police officers for the recording and detection of hate crimes. Anti-racism and anti-discrimination laws are also recalled. The role of the reference police officer is to raise awareness among members of his or her service. All recommendations made by Committee P are submitted to the police and then to the competent authorities or persons responsible for the integrity of the internal control and/or audit for periodic follow-up. At the federal police level, regular bilateral meetings are held between the Commissioner General and the Chair of Committee P on this subject. Mr Aouasti, I put on the agenda the reform of the disciplinary law during my meeting with the unions on 12 February. It will be part of the schedule of the Integrated Police Negotiating Committee. Last week, the Integrated Police Coordination Committee presented me with their vision for the reform of disciplinary law. The new selection board will place more emphasis on assessing certain essential criteria other than integrity, absence of extremism or lack of psychopathology. In the new selection procedure, several computer-based tests will reinforce the evaluation of these different criteria previously examined only in maintenance. At present, the personality test makes it possible to emphasize in particular the values and motivations that must fit with the function and the organization, but also the possible presence of inappropriate behaviors. Candidates who do not have these essential characteristics to practise the profession are not allowed to continue the new selection process. In addition to the selection process, the candidate's background and background are reviewed. The candidate may be rejected on this basis. The integration of all this information with the various competences measured in conjunction with the Morality Commission will lead to the final decision whether or not to be incorporated into police training. At present, the Royal Decree and the Ministerial Decree are still before the Council of State for its opinion. The date of 1 May is chosen for the implementation of new selection processes for the police. It is up to the disciplinary authorities, within the framework of their discretion, to approve the procedures covered by the Disciplinary Act of 1999, which, it is true, require a substantial investment in training, and a high availability of experts in this field, in order, inter alia, to comply with the sometimes very short deadlines imposed by the legislator. Collègue Boukili, regarding your first question, pursuant to the 2019 law amending the Act of 15 September 2013 relating to the reporting of a suspected violation of integrity within a federal administrative authority by a member of its staff, the Integrity department at the level of the general police station has been strengthened so that the possibility of reporting suspicions of lack of integrity internally to the federal police is more accessible. In the longer term, after the development of a well-trained network of trusted people, this opportunity will be further strengthened. The practical arrangements for such denunciation shall not be imposed. This may therefore be done by e-mail, telephone or mail, with in any case a guarantee of confidentiality. Your second question concerns the prolongation of the police training which has already been the subject of reflection; I believe that it should be continued. While it is true that the basic training of our aspirants inspectors currently lasts 12 months, this is followed by a probationary period of six months; the basic training will certainly continue to be the subject of great attention. On your third question, the police organization takes every act of violence, racism and discrimination seriously. The Code of Ethics makes it clear that there is no room for these behaviours within the police service. The integrated police continue to combat inappropriate behaviour by a limited number of staff, including by taking appropriate measures against the perpetrators. In addition to the reactive aspect, we are also investing in the preventive aspect. The prevention of abusive behaviour contrary to rights and freedoms is sought through adequate training of police personnel. This training plays an essential role in respecting the legal framework and values of the integrated police and in acquiring the skills and skills necessary to carry out police missions in a professional manner. This training is at different levels and stages of the career of members of the police service. It is general, covering the aforementioned normative framework, human rights and ethics; or specific and specific topics. Practical training complements the theory. In the area of violence control, the principles and techniques taught are based on the normative and ethical framework, on the one hand, and on the principle of de-escalation of violence, on the other. To this end, the training pays particular attention to communication and psychosocial skills, including modules on communication and stress and conflict management. The issue of the prohibition of racism and discrimination is also the subject of specific training for members of the police services. Many awareness-raising activities are also organized in this area, using a variety of means of communication. Several of these training courses on diversity and intercultural communication are delivered by and/or in collaboration with external partners active in the promotion of human rights, such as Unia. The "Holocaust, Police and Human Rights" training, organized in partnership with the Dossin barracks in Malines, deals in particular with the situation of the Traveller community. The "Polarization" training, on the other hand, focuses on the mechanisms leading to polarisation and the impact of this phenomenon on the work of the police and relations with the population. The themes of diversity and non-discrimination are considered a priority in the field of police training. The abuse of their legal prerogatives and, in particular, of coercion and/or force by legal guardians is monitored and given special attention by the authorities of the above-mentioned supervisory bodies as well as by non-governmental organizations (NGOs). Following an inter-ministerial conference held in July 2020, a multidisciplinary working group, including representatives of the ministers responsible for police services, integrated police and NGOs, is currently working on an anti-racism plan. The police services participate and contribute constructively to this work. Within this framework, the integrated police is working in particular on the establishment of an action plan to combat professional profiling, based on what has been developed in certain police areas. This framework provides tools to promote the professionalism of police controls in which respectful communication, legal basis and values play a central role. I also support the commitment of the integrated police to include this framework of action in the basic training of police inspectors. Other projects, such as the generalization of bodycams, aim to intensify the prevention and repression of police interventions that violate rights and freedoms. Mr Moyaers, for the process of reforming the disciplinary law, I refer to my reply just now to Mr Aouasti. The unexpected failure of the chairman of the negotiating committee will cause us to have a few days or weeks of delay in the consultation with the trade unions, but I will come back to that later on for a question from Mr Ingels. The idea of an independent disciplinary court has already been suggested in previous attempts to review the disciplinary procedure, but it has been abandoned in those circumstances for two reasons. First, it was argued that this would be contrary to Article 7 (2) of the Special Law of 1980 on the reform of the institutions, which states that, by way of derogation from Paragraph 1, any administrative supervision is neither organised nor exercised by the Regions in respect of decisions on disciplinary matters relating to local police. A second reason was that many mayors opposed it because they felt that an external government should not be allowed to dismiss staff working for local authorities. In this context, the compromise was therefore to retain the Disciplinary Board as an advisory body. Such an independent body already exists in the form of that Disciplinary Board. Of course, improvements are possible in terms of competence, composition and operation. As part of the reform, I am therefore open to all the reflections on this issue. The Disciplinary Board itself will also be involved in this exercise. An extension of police training is already part of previous reflections, as I have just said. I strongly encourage the continuation of these reflections in order to optimise training for police officers. Lifelong training means to me that police officers keep their knowledge up-to-date and up-to-date and that their competences and skills improve throughout their career, consistent with the evolutions in society. The concrete principles and their practical implementation still need to be worked out, but this is under consideration.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic414x.u7	Madam Minister, first of all, thank you for the comprehensiveness of your answer. I think this is an important debate which unfortunately comes back incessantly in this Parliament because, as you have said, there are sometimes and unfortunately people in the law enforcement forces who think they are above the law. You recalled, no violence is acceptable, no matter where it comes from. The police have, in Belgium and within the framework of the rule of law, a monopoly on the exercise of coercion and force, but no monopoly on the exercise of violence. I think that there is a necessary semantic precision. In any case, no one else has any monopoly whatsoever. No violence is acceptable. We need to be able to report him on both sides. You started talking about the young Brusselsers. Indeed, there is a problem which is particularly acute in Brussels, but not that. As a reminder, we have had a debate in this Chamber, you and I, following the report of the Youth Forum, which shows that relations between the police and young people, not only in Brussels unfortunately, are complicated, but that there is a desire of this same youth to be involved, to reach out to our police forces to improve things. You've been full. You have drawn up the picture: it is not black. With the effect of media coverage, more cases have also and potentially been revealed than in the past. It is also a hypothesis and it is the famous black number, which could be unknown to us and which is revealed today. In any case, I stress your efforts to work and the fact that you have already met with the Integrated Police Negotiating Committee, that it was put on the agenda in February, that you met with him last week, that it should be put on the agenda to work on the reform of the 1999 law in disciplinary matters. I also take note of your comments on the initial training of police officers and your comments on continuing training. There are also potential aids beyond the federal level. With another cap, I remember working hard to set up continuing training programmes in the Brussels-Capital Region, in particular with the Regional and Intercommunal Police School (ERIP), with Brusafe and the Minister-President who, since the sixth reform of the State, has had special powers in Brussels. We have worked with the federal government, which is working on the main training and whose competence it is, with the police areas, with the local divisions to a real framework of continuing training which is more specific for Brussels and which is perhaps more suitable for it. The police forces were willing to help in this, because there was a field work that was being done and something more interesting about results and knowledge, not only theoretical but also practical. I note the agenda; I note your will; I note your condemnation which is interesting. I note this important sentence that the police must be the mirror of our society. This sentence may seem banal, but it is important. Thank you for the thoroughness of your answer. I suspect that the work is not simple and will require a little more time. Unfortunately, when you're sitting on a powder keg, you don't have any more time. A message of firmness and vigilance may therefore need to be revived. Our heads of bodies are here to help you and us. They even called us a little desperate. In fact, they sometimes say they are a little helpless. In any case, they have the will to work on the issue. In my opinion, the police need to make this call more public so that it can be heard better. It is important that the policies we are are not alone in communicating. The police must also communicate on a daily or weekly basis about what they are doing, what they are implementing, police station by police station, region by region, as this is necessary. We will not close the debate today. The question will probably be discussed again. But, in any case, the path is taken. He seems to be the right one. I trust you to continue the work. And I hope that this scourge that affects our law enforcement forces will end very quickly because, more than the others, they must be blameless.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic414x.u8	I thank the Minister for her answers. If I understand correctly, you're not ready to set up a green line. You say that what already exists is sufficient and needs to be strengthened, that it is being done and that it will need to be further strengthened in the future. The problem, minister, is that what already exists does not work well enough. This is what several police and trade union officials denounce. Complaints to colleagues who have behaviour that affects the integrity of the function, generally, take place in the area concerned. The proposal for a green number is to devote a space independent of the areas to receive these calls and to conduct investigations independently of the area. Mr Jacobs denounced it: there is an omerta and we saw it in the case in Anderlecht: it was the hierarchy that covered the situation. It was the whistleblower who was called into question. If we want to tackle this scourge in our police forces and in those people who stain our police services, we need to make provision for the officers who do their job well to denounce what is not going in full transparency and security. What currently exists is completely inadequate. Reality has proved it. We need to go further. I see that it is not your intention to work on the green line in the short or medium term. Therefore, Parliament will have to come with a bill to act. The emergency is here! This scourge needs to be taken more into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic414x.u9	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answers. As everywhere in our society and in groups of our society, there is always a small group that makes it a little too colourful, out of line and ruins it for the others. That is the case with me in the municipality, with young people, with football supporters, in traffic but also with the police. However, it is not true that every policewoman or every policeman is coloring off lines. It is sometimes framed that this is the case. I would like to make it quite clear here in Parliament that this is not right at all. It is a small group that ruins it for all the other good police women and men, who do their job completely every day, do not act racist and do not color outside the lines. That is why there is a need for an efficient disciplinary system, which is quick and easy to apply and logical. Madam Minister, I am glad, for example, that you say that progress is being made and that there will certainly be an appropriate disciplinary procedure by mid 2021. That is necessary because policemen who color outside the lines will be punished. One example that could be taken into account is that the disciplinary authority remains in the place where the incident occurred and that the agent does not follow, but stays in the area where the fact was committed. As far as training is concerned, we have seen in the report that one year's training is too short. After all, a police officer is not only a cop, but also a psychologist, is sometimes a translator and absorbs a number of things that happen in society. Making this training even longer is not an option at the moment, because we are suffering from a shortage of police officers. We need to recruit a lot of them. The training must therefore remain at least one year. However, there is something in lifelong training. There must also be sufficient hours for this. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic414x.u10	Madam Secretary, thank you for your very comprehensive answer. You've said a few important things, which I'm sure you'd like to take with you. You spoke of recruiting a very diverse corps as a mirror for society, with the key word respect, respect that is forced on both sides. You also mentioned lifelong learning, both at school and on the ground. You spoke specifically of the neighborhood cop. The neighborhood cop is indeed someone who experiences it very closely. The easiest way for him to build a relationship of trust with the citizen is through his short journey with that citizen. You also spoke of the disciplinary law. That's a few weeks' delay. It's currently with the unions. You say that progress is being made, I am glad to hear it. After all, this disciplinary law is necessary. The extension of police training is part of reflections which need to be further developed. We shall see what that will eventually become. I look forward to it with a great deal of curiosity and hope for a very good arrangement.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic414x.u11	Mrs. Chanson is sorry.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic414x.u12	Last Saturday, a demonstration of the Black Lives Matter movement got completely out of hand in the center of Liège. About 300 rioters started plundering, hitting the street furniture, throwing stones and bottles at police officers and charmed police cars. That resulted in 36 wounded in the police force, nine of which were serious. The latter had to be taken to the hospital. Reportedly, one more cop is in the hospital. If that is no longer the case, you will improve me. These are so-called young people who come to argue for the Black Lives Mattter movement, but through media channels spokesmen of the police of organized and planned riots. There's a little more going on there than just a demonstration gone wrong. Some people suggest that the Black Lives Matter case was hijacked by hooligans, rioters and so on. It seems to me that there is a deliberate decline in certain places to plunder, destroy and, above all, create a hotshot against our law enforcement services. It's not the first time we've been confronted with such phenomena. We have seen this on several occasions in Brussels. Is this Black Lives Matter movement actually being mapped? How many young people were arrested and arraigned in Liège? Where did they come from? Were those kids from Liège themselves? In the media, it is said that there would be a lot of people coming down from Brussels and other parts of the country. What are the destructions and what is the damage they have done, not only physically to police officers, but also equipment? Were there any complaints for that? How are these complaints being followed up? Have governments taken bourgeois parties? You would stand bourgeois party each time such acts and phenomena would occur. What measures will you take to stop such incidents and above all to better protect our police? They were more inclined to protect their own wounded than they were able to deal with the rioters. Is that right?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic414x.u13	Madam Secretary, the situation has already been outlined. I'd like to add that it's not about incidents in Liège, it's about riots in Liège. It is not the first time we have talked about this, and unfortunately it will not be the last time. We must continue to highlight this criminal violence against the police. We need to give a signal. Society expects that, too. That behavior can and should never be tolerated. Madam Secretary, a dozen amokmakers were arrested. What is the latest state of affairs regarding the arrests and the number of people who have been arraigned? How's the investigation coming? Is Quick Law already in place? It is not the first time that people from far outside the riot zone, in this case Liège, are mobilized in the short term and involved in violence, looting and violence against the police. Do you have any plans to map and address that problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic414x.u14	Madam Minister, I will go straight to my questions, because the situation is already sufficiently outlined. Can you give me more information on exactly what happened? We hear all kinds of things through the media, but perhaps you should first give a factual outline of the situation. In the French-speaking press a number of tolerated events were mentioned. In these times of corona measures, of course, it is a bit vague to talk about the cultural sector and there would have been an incident at the beginning of this week with a Mrs of Congolese descent if something were not banned but not allowed. Then the police are also in a twilight zone. Can you clarify that? Can you give us more information on the number of injured and how they are now doing? Can you give more information about the material damage? We often talk about young people, but in the reports we talk about four minors and the other six were of age. Can you confirm that? In the meantime, have additional arrests taken place, for example on the basis of camera footage? After all, the mayor had said that any additional arrests would be made on the basis of the footage. I also hear that the situation would have been misjudged and that it would have been mainly a problem of monitoring information on the social media. One would have called for late reinforcements. Could you shed some light on that? Any casualties in the reinforcements that came from the federal police? Do you intend to be a bourgeois party? Have you had any contact with the mayor of Liège? Did you suggest the possibility that he could take a bourgeois party?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic414x.u15	Madam Minister, it is very regrettable that a demonstration against police violence and racism in the police force, which citizens are quite rightly concerned about and on which we have just had a debate, has ended with violence against the police. Both forms of violence must be strongly condemned as a society. I would also like to say that the Black Lives Matter movement has distanced itself from the people who have been violent to the police on Saturday. My questions are also about what exactly happened and what lessons we can learn from it in terms of security. Can you tell us how the situation escalated so quickly? Is it true that this manifestation went peacefully first? Then how come the police couldn't stop so many destruction, damage and looting? According to the Black Lives Matter movement, the rioters have nothing to do with that movement but they abuse legitimate or tolerated meetings to commit violence. To what extent is this insight used in police risk assessments to prepare when such tolerated events are reorganised in the future? Does the court already have eyes on who is behind the riots and through which channels was called to descend to Liège? This is important for future risk assessments. I would like to join my colleague. Young people are often mentioned in the media. Do you think that's an appropriate term to describe these specific amokmakers? Of the ten arrested, four were underage, but the rest were between 23 and 46 years old. I think it is very important to be very careful in police press communication to use the term 'young people'. There are almost 640,000 people between 15 and 24 years of age in our country. I believe that this is the category indicated by 'young people'. So I would like to make an appeal, including to ourselves as politicians, that it is really stigmatizing if we use these broad categories. Many young people simply want to speak peacefully against racism in the police or against other matters that concern them. Then it is not okay that they are mistakenly thrown together with a few rioters.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic414x.u16	Madam Minister, I am not going to go back to the context but to the consequences: 36 police officers injured, including 9 hospitalized, the heart of the burning city with fire and blood and the traders targeted, stripped of their property, their livelihood, in times that are already very difficult for them. It was a terrible spectacle, the fruit of organized groups that had nothing to do with those who simply wanted to express their opinion passively. We lived on a Saturday of horror, traumatizing for all and especially for the Liegeians. The modus operandi of these groups leaves little doubt about the coordinated nature of this savagery, which is certainly not a spontaneous movement of social violence. Minister, what federal means are available to the Liege police in connection with the management of this event? Do you confirm the feeling that this is a coordinated action? If so, is an investigation conducted to identify the organizers and hold them accountable? In terms of intelligence, do you have any evidence to say that it is an international organisation hostile to the police where to rule out this trail? I spoke at length with Willy Demeyer, the mayor of Liège. Place Saint-Lambert, a place of life and joy, ten years after the terrible attack that marked it forever, has again been violated. The mayor is particularly affected, like the Liégeois. And he is particularly determined, like the Liegeians, to return without delay to beat the heart of the ardent City and to do everything possible to ensure that the forces of law and order, the Liegeians and those who come to Liège will never again be confronted with such acts. I am already relaying his expectations, which he will repeat to you in a few days, when you will have the pleasure of meeting him. First, we must proceed without delay. We must make every effort not to leave room for any sense of impunity, to remind us that we are in the rule of law and that any infringement of this rule of law will be prosecuted. Therefore, could you detach criminal investigation teams to strengthen the Liège police so that the investigation can be carried out quickly and these troublemakers can be identified quickly and the files forwarded to the Justice Department? Finally, do you have the means for the police areas? Today it is Liège, yesterday it was Brussels or Antwerp. We are faced with organized, structured violence and these cities are not in a position today, through the funding of the local police, to take on their own response to this new crime. Could you consider reviewing the funding of the police areas so that they can bear the new costs of this new crime without further burdening the communal finances? If not, could you consider using more logistical, technical and human resources at the federal police level to react quickly and have sufficient means to never be in trouble in such situations?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic414x.u17	Madam Secretary, I will not repeat the whole story, I will immediately answer my questions. Do you have any more news on the agent who had to stay in the hospital longer? In the meantime, did that person get fired from the hospital? Hopefully that is the case. In the meantime, have any additional arrests been made on the basis of camera footage identification? The zero tolerance for violence against the police announced by you will be applied.? In other words, will fast-track law apply to the perpetrators arrested? Have you set yourself up as a bourgeois party? Finally, is it true that there was interference in the arrests from far outside Liège? There would even be amok makers from France.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic414x.u18	Mr President, I will not be long because many things have been said. I would just like to recall what happened on 8 March, which is the reason for all of this. On 8 March, we all saw the pictures of this aide-maintainer violently grounded by police officers in Liège. March 8, the day of the struggle for women's rights. The nurse said she wanted to help the police and a lady who was in a state of unease and was then caught up by the officers. On the videos, we see her violently grounded by these policemen. The police are challenging this version. They talk about a fury, but the images show it caught up and attacked. As a result of the arrest, there was a demonstration on the margins of which violence occurred. Here, I have a thought for all the victims of this event. Minister, what do you think about the use of force by the police against this caregiver? Do you join the version of the police? Has an investigation been initiated into these facts? With regard to violent events, did you anticipate events on the sidelines of last weekend's protest? We talked earlier about the VRT documentary. We're in a bit of anxiety. Today we can be afraid of going to protest, either because we are afraid of being subjected to police violence, or because we are afraid of being dragged into a violent drift of protest. We can't live in such a climate. We really need to find solutions. I would like to know, Madam Minister, what plans you intend to put in place to ease tensions, both between young people and between law enforcement agencies. Given the general climate, I have the impression that every week, when you come to answer the questions, there is an event of the kind to denounce and discuss. For you and for us, we can't do a whole legislature like this. There is a need to find answers that are concrete enough to address this issue. I'm afraid she's becoming more and more frequent and serious. I believe that an answer is needed to remedy this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic414x.u19	Mr President, Madam Minister, as a resident of the Principality of Liège and originally from this city by my parents, I was particularly shocked to see known places, usually frequented, invaded by rioters whose only wish was to break, loot and throw the trouble. On Saturday 13 March, a peaceful demonstration took place in the centre of Liège, in Place Saint-Lambert. But 200 to 300 rioters infiltrated the procession, and the situation quickly deteriorated. Christian Beaupère, Chief of Police of Liège, speaks of organized criminal gangs in the criminal sense of the term, with rapid displacement, great aggressiveness, jets of paving stones for the services of the order, broken glass, the looting of shops. The extremely rapid movement of these gangs necessitated the rapid displacement of the police. As can be seen from the images broadcast on television channels, the police were quickly overtaken. There are a significant number of injured members of our police force: 38 injured police officers, including 9 taken to the hospital, one of them still staying there a few days ago. In addition to those wounded, a policeman had a broken clavicle. On the other hand, to date, the hospitals in Liège have not reported any injuries among protestors or bastards. These behaviours cannot go unpunished. I note that ten arrests, including six judicial arrests, took place during the clashes. These include three Liegeois. The rest come from the region of Liège. In addition, 20 young Brusselsers were spotted among the rioters. They must be sought in order for justice to do its job. The police must be provided with adequate staffing and equipment to deal with such events. According to my sources, the police services were distributed as follows: 120 local police officers were initially mobilised with a federal police sprinkler, 50 local police officers were recalled as reinforcements, when the situation deteriorated, 80 Brussels federal police officers were also called in reinforcement. A total of 250 police officers had to deal with 300 breakers. Minister, do you confirm these figures? Do you estimate the number of police officers involved to be sufficient? In addition, the local police were able to obtain only one sprinkler, although they had requested two. Why was it not possible for the federal police to provide the requested material? The rioters met very quickly, thanks to synchronization via an electronic messaging system that would still escape police control. What steps is the police planning to take to make up for the delay and to deal with such so-called instant gatherings? We know they used couriers in other violent demonstrations. Recently, our police dismantled important organized crime networks, including an encrypted messaging network. I am also told that local police personnel were unable to use tear gas due to lack of training. This means that the 170 local police officers had to wait for the reinforcement of the federal police for the use of tear gas. Why has this training not yet been provided? In general, what new training is envisaged for our police to deal with such events? I stress the immediate reaction that we must have to face these rioters, those breakers, those who threw the trouble and tarnish the image of the peaceful message that had been delivered in Liège during the demonstration.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic414x.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before I answer the specific questions, I would like to take some time for a general reflection on the incidents. Respect grows when it can come from both sides. The events in Liège and earlier those in Brussels, seen in the Panoreportage, have made me sad, but not discouraged. Sad because I see an irrational conflict degenerate. Sad, because there are no ready-made solutions that can stop them from repeating themselves. Furthermore, I have not heard from you, Mr Boukili, a ready-made solution. But that doesn't discourage me. I think we should all consider how we can prevent such incidents. I am therefore determined to continue with this. I believe that we should focus on different dimensions. Several cities are already working on projects to improve police-youth relations, but this is a long-term process. Work focuses on ongoing police training: crowd management, psychological and social training, overview of processes on social networks and a transparent integrity policy. Expectations of the police are rightly high. But we're gonna have to do more. In recent months and years, we have established that there are new ways of protesting, ways of organizing themselves differently. The police have to respond to that. We will indeed have to do more, because if we can better understand why police work is being disrupted, why people are resisting police action, why it leads to a struggle or even to riots, we can also intervene more effectively. We must therefore continue to carry out the necessary analyses. In order to gain a better understanding and take the right measures, we need more scientific research and an exchange of good practices. Reclaiming respect and trust on both sides is also an attitude that is crucial to solving the problem. Manifestants need to understand that the police are doing their job and the police need to understand that demonstrators want to express their democratic rights. The police, demonstrators and the government must be aware that authorized demonstrations are too often hijacked by rioters, breakers and people who seek to provoke and destroy. We will not tolerate that. That is why the police are deployed to prevent or limit riots and vandalism. The police must protect both public space and private property. In times of pandemic, follow-up of corona measures is added to these tasks. The police have a monopoly on the use of force, but this must always be necessary and proportionate. That doesn't always work. That's obvious. It was also evident from the footage. However, let us think in solutions and not in gratuite condemnations. We do not know all the circumstances and certainly in the first few hours and days we do not know exactly what was the basis of a confrontation. When I say that respect must come from both sides, it will require an effort from all parties. We will never accept that individuals in the corps or some citizens in society do not accept normal and foreseeable forms of relations and deliberately or intentionally distort mutual respect. I am convinced that the issue will still be on our agenda, but I will not be discouraged. Together with you, I like to work with great conviction to turn the tide. The intervention of March 8 to which you refer in your question is the subject of a judicial inquiry. It is therefore not for me to comment on this file. Nevertheless, it appears from the information in my possession that a file is also being opened within the internal control department of the police zone. First of all, I would like to point out that the events that took place on Saturday, 13 March, are unacceptable. My support goes to the police officers who were injured during this intervention and to the traders who were the victims of the damage and theft. With regard to the context of the demonstration and the subsequent incidents, I would like to distinguish between the three announced rallies that took place peacefully and the grouping of individuals who joined one of them. Indeed, this Saturday, March 13, many people were gathered in the city centre, mainly because of the call to solidarity of the Still standing for culture movement and the sectors of the Horeca and the event. As a result of the arrest of a lady of African origin, a call was made to gather in the context of the Black Lives Matter movement. The meeting started at 2.15 p.m. in a serene manner, but around 2.40 p.m., projectiles were suddenly thrown by a group of noisy youngsters. A police motard was endorsed by about 20 aggressive people. This group was rapidly extended to a group of 200 to 300 people, who moved and had organized themselves well. That also explains the damage in various neighbourhoods of the center. The police area of Liège has quickly called for reinforcements and also immediately received from the federal units with two spray trucks and two platoons of twenty policemen each. Reinforcements were also called for internally and the new and unexpected situation was soon to be addressed. The police remained for four hours in very difficult positions, including Place Saint-Lambert, in order to prevent the commission of further damage and to ensure the protection of many bastards who had taken refuge in the galleries of the mall. A B-Alert communication was also activated by the mayor to order the immediate closure of the targeted stores. With regard to the risk analysis carried out by the police zone, the information available was taken into account. It must be dynamic because of the social networks that facilitate a very rapid mobilization as well as the formation of spontaneous gatherings. Indeed, the use of these media has transformed the style and form of many gatherings. These are more spontaneous and bring together more participants or are organized as a result of highly emotional events. As a result, the police must adapt their approach to preparing for the management of these new forms of protest, both in terms of gathering information and in terms of risk analysis, and also in terms of training in police techniques and tactics. That is why, in view of this growing phenomenon of social networks and the new forms of protest that have emerged in recent years, I have asked the Federal Police, in collaboration with the local police in Brussels-Capital-Ixelles, to develop a new police approach. I have also set up a national working group chaired by both the federal police and the local police of Brussels Capital Elsene. I also take into account the extension of the group to include representatives of large areas, such as Liège, which are also affected by this type of aggression. This is in order to improve the collection of information and also to adapt police training and techniques to this type of event. Tomorrow, I will go to Liège to discuss the incidents and joint initiatives that can be taken with the Liège police to develop this new approach. I have already had the opportunity this week to talk to the mayor of Liège by telephone for this purpose. I will meet the mayor and the head of corps of Liège to discuss the joint initiatives that we can take in this direction. The forces that were mobilized were initially composed of two organic platoons and a sprinkler. Civilian personnel for the collection of information were also planned. As I have already said, this mechanism was quickly strengthened at the request of the Liège police zone by an additional sprinkler and by two platoons of the Federal Police. A total of 10 judicial arrests were made immediately. For example, four minors and six adults were brought before the Liège Public Prosecutor's Office. Two arrest warrants were issued for two majors for robbery and one minor was placed in a closed centre. For further details on the judicial follow-up to be given to this case, I invite you to address my colleague from Justice. The judicial investigation continues in order to identify other perpetrators of the acts committed this Saturday. For example, a cell consisting of three senior inspectors and fifteen inspectors was set up to analyse the large amount of photo and video material collected. Individuals are also invited to post their images. Close cooperation with the Brussels police area in particular is under way. At present, there is no evidence that rioters are related to the Black Lives Matter event. An investigation is under way. Arrests are likely to occur. Twenty-four minutes have been written by the cell to date. Others will follow. 36 police officers were victims of blows and injuries or of thrown projectiles, nine of them received hospital care and one police officer remained under observation, but has since left the hospital. The Liege Police have informed me that there are currently 16 people unable to work. The longest period of inactivity is until March 28th. The city of Liège has already announced that it will be a bourgeois party for the victims who are part of the Liege police. We will also take the necessary steps for the members of the federal police.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic414x.u21	Madam Secretary, you have my support when you announce that you will respond to the use of new forms of communication by rioters, such as social media, and force larger police areas to cooperate to gather information and to take preventive action. I also welcome the fact that both the city of Liège and yourself are bourgeois parties to the material damage and physical damage to the agents. You will not hear me complain about this, but I still have some fundamental questions and comments. You say at the beginning of your answer that there are no ready-made solutions for such phenomena to never happen again. That's pretty weedy. I think everyone can agree with that, but that does not mean that we should not make any additional efforts. I certainly have a problem with your statement that it has to do with attitude and that we have to create some kind of mutual respect. So you're asking a police officer who's being attacked during a demonstration to respect the rioter. I'm not asking you to, and I don't want to. Stop it. There must be respect for our law enforcement services. Period. They demand no respect for people who commit looting, destroy and attack police officers. You're getting a little pissed off about the so-called gratuite statements about rioters and protesters. Those destructions, lootings and those wounded police officers, who apparently are incompetent until 28 March, are not at all gratuitous. It's just the facts. We must stop treating the rioters in the same way as the law enforcement agencies. I see that atmosphere more and more. We have to stop doing that. We must offer the police the political support they deserve. They must maintain order in very difficult circumstances, especially in these corona times. They deserve more. They deserve not only the necessary equipment and the additional equipment, but also, above all, our support. We must have the political courage to support our police officers in their approach to rioters, as we saw in Liège at work.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic414x.u22	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. I am pleased that you strongly condemn the crapulous behaviour and that you will act. After all, it's really about crapulous behavior. I understand that people were there in the first place, otherwise it can't go from a few dozen rioters to hundreds of rioters. It was a true development of rioters. Ladies and gentlemen, at present there is a culture in which every action of a police officer is kept under a magnifying glass. The actua debate proves that once again. An excessive intervention, according to some, is used to get into the streets and then to commit premeditated violence against the police. Law enforcement is an intervention. That's what our police officers learn in training. Using that every time to stand up to the police in general must really stop. The police are our law enforcement officers and must be able to do their job properly. It deserves all the political support for this. Whoever touches the police, both literally and figuratively, does not show solidarity with our society and raises his middle finger towards society. Such people must be punished correctly and such behaviour must never be tolerated.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic414x.u23	Madam Minister, thank you for the very comprehensive answer. I'd like to bring you a nuanced story. I agree that respect should be given and taken, but we have to establish that there is a small group that is no longer susceptible to it. For me, it's about those people. I have contacts in Congolese circles myself. They say there are messages in Whatsapp going around with orders. The shops they fish are not coincidental. They want new sneakers. They're ordered in advance, and then they're resold. What are we doing? While they're making amok, they're trying to loot. We need to focus on that group. There must also be respect for the police. I agree that there should be dialogue with young people, but there is just a small group that is no longer susceptible. I think we should use social media channels to do this. There's still a lot of work to be done. I would also like to have a debate here on the reporting of violence. If a cop gets a cobblestone on him, what's it called? Battles and injuries? That could also be an attempted manslaughter. This can have very serious consequences. It's a lucky thing that hasn't happened before. I still see the picture of the bloody head of the Intervention Service, INT, in Brussels a few years ago. Someday a deadly victim might fall. Then it's gonna be a whole different story. I agree with you that there are no ready-made answers. I am also very pleased that you want to use different ways, but I think there is a group with which we are no longer allowed to be patient.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic414x.u24	Madam Minister, I am very pleased that you are determined to tackle the problem and I think, unlike some colleagues, that it is very good that you are not proposing the problem of violence against the police as something simple, but that you are describing it as a complex, social problem. I am also very pleased that you want to make a thorough scientific analysis to explain the opposition of citizens to the police sociologically. I certainly support that evidence-based approach. It is very important to keep a cool head and certainly not to take a position that the violence can escalate even more, so that we can get even further from a solution. Let it be clear, however, that violence against the police cannot be justified. I also welcome your view that citizens should continue to have the opportunity to express their ideals and get out on the streets. That is very important in a democracy. You have outlined the situation: the meeting was serene at first, but there was also a well-organised group that deliberately went there. It is important that the court can now do its job and that we wait for the judicial investigation so that we can find out who was behind it and what the motivations were. I have not really received a clear answer to my question about the use of the category 'young people'. You also used the term again, but I would like to call for caution in the use of very broad categories. In my opinion, the group that was present in Liège is not really representative of the young people in our country. So I think we should be careful about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic414x.u25	Minister, thank you for your answers. Some will certainly seek responsibilities in the head of the federal authorities, in the head of the local authorities, in the head of the federal police or in the head of the local police, but it is not wrong to fight. We must not let this kind of talk spread because today, if there are 36 injured police officers and 9 hospitalized police officers, if there are so many men and women in shock, it is not the fault of the police. It's not the authorities' fault either. This is, of course, the fruit and responsibility, not of peaceful demonstrators, but of organized criminal groups. That's not gonna change anything. The facts are here. It is these criminal groups that are the cause and consequence of what we experienced in Liège this Saturday. I really insist, Madam Minister, that you give the judicial police the means to investigate without delay and to strengthen the judicial police in Liège. It must be made a priority so that we can see clearly and that the perpetrators of these terrible disorders are promptly prosecuted. Large cities must be given the means to adapt their police forces to this new crime, in the refinancing of police zones and in other actions as well. Tomorrow, Mr Demeyer will not tell you anything else, and I am sure he will also call for your support. I know you're not going to get discouraged, you said. We will be at your side if you go in that direction, as you have demonstrated since the beginning of your mandate because in a rule of law and freedoms there are two essential elements. It is a State which, through its institutions, guarantees the respect of each and every one. This is the first element and it is up to us to play this role. Secondly, it is also a state where every citizen respects these same institutions that guarantee our freedoms. We must manage to make the link between the two, to recreate this link and, in any case, not to allow what is intolerable.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic414x.u26	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I'm glad to hear that, after last Saturday's riots, no cop is staying at the hospital anymore. I wish all wounded agents a very rapid recovery and hope that they will keep up the courage and continue to find the energy they need to do their job. You are right, Madam Minister, it was certainly not the first time and it will not be the last time we will be faced with riots. It will undoubtedly be debated here too, and that is a good thing, because it indicates that we are concerned about it. The police are, of course, the first link in the field of security for everyone, and that is why they deserve our political support, so that they can continue to do their job well. Violence against the police is really unacceptable to the sp.a. The same applies to riots and destruction. I am very pleased to hear that you have made yourself a bourgeois party and that you will not be discouraged and will continue to fight with that kind of extreme excessive violence. I remember that from your speech, and that is also the signal that our police deserve.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic414x.u27	Minister, your task is not easy because of the situation, and even in general. Indeed, this is not the first time that, on several subjects, you serve as a shield while the whole government is responsible. You have a responsibility as Minister of the Interior for different situations, but there is a social situation that goes beyond your competence and the whole government is responsible. I'll give it to you. I didn't ask you for full answers. There are not all-round solutions. We have to dig to find solutions. Parliament is ready to contribute to this. I was appreciative of the point made by my colleague, Mr Rigot, when he said that the rule of law is defined in two parts: the guarantee of rights and their respect for every citizen and the respect of the rules by the citizen for the well-being of society. Both go together. When I tell you that you are a shield from the government, it is to emphasize that everyone must bear his or her responsibility. Governments have not respected some of their duties. Then, who pays the price for these political failures? It is our police officers who are sent to the pipe breaker because they are there to play the role of shields of political failures. At some point, this becomes a collective responsibility of successive governments. Not just yours, but you also have a responsibility at that level. In particular, this past year, in the context of a pandemic crisis, the gap between politics and the population has widened even further. It seems to me that there is a more general reflection to be carried out. Your task is not easy, but you have responsibilities to assume. Some are much wider. The whole government and all parties represented in it must assume their responsibilities.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic414x.u28	Minister, there is no doubt that there is a need for full support for the police at these extremely complicated times. There is also no doubt about the responsibility for such a ruin: a group of young people who took advantage of this event. You inherit a past that has partly drained the federal police from its substance. We have already discussed this with you and with your predecessor, she is no longer in a position to provide support to local police. It is in this context that we conduct hearings to strengthen local police against a new funding standard. You have made this commitment in the Vivaldi agreement, but there are still problems in terms of equipment, training, staffing, specific missions. Before you, a minister of the interior emptied a series of police services at the federal police level from its substance and the federal capacity is very complicated to have, especially at a time when he is being asked to perform multiple tasks. It must be said that, while the primary responsibility remains in the leader of the rioters, the field police, pay a number of broken pots of these savings made on their backs. You mentioned the importance of detection on social networks. This is an encrypted mode of communication. It is much more complicated than on a social network and it necessarily leads to a sharp technicality. You're committed to modulating and adapting police training, it's essential. We stress your will on this issue. We hope that there will be sanctions because if we identify troublemakers, we do not cast reproach on the whole youth. The same applies in cases of police violence: when police officers are identified, they do not cast reproach on the police as a whole. It is very important to be able to target those responsible for these disorders!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic414x.u29	As a result of the large-scale police investigation, you and the Minister of Justice announced additional resources for the federal police. Specifically, it concerns 450 vacancies in which specialised profiles such as IT experts are sought. There is also additional investment in IT in fracturing and internet trecherche.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic414x.u30	Mr President, Madam Minister, on Tuesday, March 9, a large-scale operation known as Operation Sky led to the dismantling of Sky ECC. It is an organization that provides encrypted telephones around the world and operates from Canada and the United States. A sum of €1.2 million was seized and 48 people were deprived of their liberty in order to be heard. Police officers also seized 17 tons of cocaine, 15 prohibited weapons, jewellery and police uniforms. During the investigation, on 11 March, two local police officers from Antwerp were arrested. The Antwerp Prosecutor's Office does not wish to provide any information on this subject at this time. It is still unclear at this stage what the charges against these two officers are. However, in the light of the above-mentioned facts, one cannot help but question the involvement of police officers in such a large criminal organization and the penalties they might face if the facts were proven. As a result, Minister, can you tell us more about the involvement of these two police officers in these operations? If their involvement proves to be established, what sanctions could they face? How can it be explained that two police officers are involved in such a large criminal organization? How could you avoid this kind of situation in the future? Finally, has an investigation into the P Committee already been carried out?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic414x.u31	Madam Minister, unlike my fellow Members, I did not put forward an oral question, but an interplay because I think the facts are heavy enough to go into them a little more deeply. We must look at the causes and how the public authorities can eliminate these causes. It's a fact, Operation Sky was a success. We have heard this many times in the media, but it also shows how sensitive our system is. Criminals are looking for information on upcoming police operations, customs controls, port facilities, etc. They'll find it, too. A number of studies and scientific studies have already been carried out to identify the motives of double spies and to prevent them from working. Two of these reasons are relevant here: on the one hand - not surprisingly - money gain and, on the other hand, discontent with the system. Madam Secretary, I would like to mention five elements. First of all, the money motive. In fact, it should be the duty of the government to protect people who are in a position where there is very sensitive information and also to make them resistant to criminals. I wonder, Madam Secretary, if there really is room for that. Is there time available for this during training and, in fact, throughout the career? It's called awareness training. It is basically essential. Is such training provided? Is this taken into account during the training and during the further career? If not, do you have any initiatives following this operation Sky to remedy that? Secondly, much more difficult to combat is the kind of demotivation that can be found throughout the chain of both law enforcement and the judiciary. One feels in political rings, and I speak with reasonable people on the ground, that there is a lack of resources and staff, but there is also a certain sense of impunity, which makes the policeman or woman feel demotivated. I dare cite the example of the drug support team, which lives in discontent with the leadership. I can understand, Madam Minister, that you will not be able to give a ready answer to all my questions today, but I will ask them anyway, because I think they are important and because I do not think that policy should delay with them. I am therefore asking about the under-staffing of the police forces and how we will eliminate them. What concrete initiatives will you take to correct the under-financing of police forces? What initiatives can we take to ensure transparency in house visits? What initiatives can be taken to detect dysfunctions within the device? These are pertinent questions, with the intention that you would initiate remedial action and make solutions possible. So I do not expect you to respond very concretely today. A third element is the police databases. There are also pertinent questions about this. Are there sufficient and regular proactive control points to verify whether the access rights granted are still up-to-date and aligned with the profile or powers? Have sufficient control mechanisms been implemented to identify which users have consulted and/or modified which data? In other words, is there some kind of protection of very sensitive information or should there be any changes following the Sky operation? A fourth element is the police structure. In future we will also be able to discuss the necessary debates in committee, perhaps also on the occasion of the discussion of initiatives which you may take. I am talking about police zones and their funding. Should they coincide, be enlarged or be made more efficient? We must take this into account and give it a certain impetus. Finally, the integrated security policy must be taken into account. That is, of course, not only your responsibility, but also that of the Minister of Justice. It is not just about the police, it is also about the judicial system. Will you consult with your colleague from the Justice Department, to prepare the public prosecutors for the many arraignments and hopefully numerous executions? What additional actions will be taken to prevent the places released in the criminal environment from being refilled? This is a criminal organisation that is actually branched out worldwide, and I assume that you will make the necessary contacts with foreign police and investigation services to deal with them on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic414x.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in 2019 there were 1,238 prospective inspectors, 358 prospective inspectors, 32 prospective inspectors with special expertise and 136 prospective Commissioners started training. By 2020, there were 1,169, 408, 39 and 113 respectively. For these training courses, the success rate is very high. The opening of 400 vacancies to federal judicial police was spread over the period from December 2020 to March 2021 and aims to recruit specialised profiles such as intelligence and data experts, technological experts and other specific technical profiles. The main focus of the reinforcement is on the FGPs at a district level, but also on the central services that directly support them in large-scale investigations and operations. Recruitments are essential to continue successfully addressing the challenges associated with files such as Operation Sky. The necessary resources have already been made available for this purpose. The federal judicial police are currently recruiting for its strategic plan DGJ 3.0 from aspirants after their training, of which I have just given you the figures, as well as from already employed police officers of the integrated police to fill out their vacancies. There are also external recruitments for civilian staff functions, especially for a number of specific ICT profiles. As recruitment procedures are still ongoing, it is not possible to explain the details now. The new organisational model DGJ 3.0 addresses the challenge of tackling organised crime effectively and efficiently in the coming years. In addition to the classic specialized investigation, the judicial police will have to develop other crucial functionalities. In concrete terms, this means further investing in new indispensable technologies and technologies and information collection and management are put at the centre. The judicial investigation of the two local police officers who were arrested is currently being conducted under the direction of the investigating judge in charge of the case. If it had to be proved that the police officers involved had actually committed criminal offences, they could be punished, both criminally and disciplinaryly. Integrated police staff shall be screened for recruitment, as well as external ICT consultants employed by them. As set out in my policy statement, I will provide the legal basis for a staff screening throughout my career. That calls for a change in the police status. At the level of the Federal Police Commissioner, an Integrity service already exists. Specifically in the framework of the Stroomplan, the integrity coordinator has already undertaken a number of concrete actions, e.g. setting up a joint working group with the integrity actors of the local police and the FGP Antwerp, together with Justice and customs. An analysis of ethical risks was also prepared among the team leaders of both local and federal police during the first months of their cooperation on the Kali workshop floor. Currently, the regulatory framework on reporting procedures is being adapted with a view to achieving a well-functioning reporting system for suspected integrity violations. The Integrity Service will take the necessary initiatives in its application for the benefit of the entire federal police force. In the meantime, pursuant to the 2019 Law on the reporting of alleged integrity violations in federal administrative authorities, the service was strengthened to make the notification of suspicions of integrity violations within federal police even more accessible. With regard to the screening and possible integrity violations of authorised users other than the police services of the National Registry, I would like to clarify a little. In order to ensure maximum security and confidentiality of data of natural persons, access to the national register number and the national register and the provision of such data to administrative authorities or citizens shall be strictly regulated. In addition to the various IT security measures, several operational security measures have been introduced. For example, the list of persons authorised to have access to the data of the National Register must be updated and made available at all times. In addition, the staff of the authorised bodies must identify themselves before they have access to the data of the National Register. Finally, an archiving system for consultations, called Login, is being implemented, not only at the level of the services of the National Registry, but also at each institution using the register. Each user must be able to provide the citizen with information on the nature of the transactions. The responsibility for archiving consultations rests with each institution using the National Register. This should ensure that only the competent persons have access for the specific purposes set out in the decision to grant access. The entry into force of the General Data Protection Regulation in May 2018 is a follow-up to user accountability and may strengthen existing security measures. An illegal consultation or updating of a file in the National Register constitutes an infringement of the law. Offences may be held liable by the Data Protection Authority or the judicial authorities at disciplinary, civil and criminal level. Once the data of the National Register have been provided to authorised users, the National Register shall have no other power to monitor the use of such data. However, I asked my services to examine how such an audit could be carried out, but in cooperation with other sectors, such as the GBA or the judicial authorities. Of course, such a power must then be enshrined in law. Mr Depoostere, your questions reached us somewhat late last night. A number of themes that you touch are relevant and we have already told you about them, such as strengthening police forces and recruiting effectives, but also the intention to look at the funding of police services, which is not a simple task. So I cannot promise here that we will have cleared this up tomorrow. A number of scientists also need to be involved in order to clarify the problem. We have already taken initiatives for the databases, not only with the police, but also with other security services. We must, of course, take account of the proportionality and protection of personal data. The file will be followed up. The mergers to which you referred or the operation of the police play a part in the debate on funding. The initiatives you are asking for will certainly still be possible in the context of the discussion of other issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic414x.u33	Madam Minister, I was somewhat surprised by the speed of my speech. Sometimes the room can be very fast.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic414x.u34	Madam Secretary, I deliberately did not ask the question because it was a technical question. However, good work has been done in Operation Sky by the FGP and the other agencies. Nevertheless, I would like to give a further political consideration. The days after the major operation in the media I see how the mayor of Antwerp fears that there is not enough capacity in the federal police and questions everything. Madam Secretary, you explained this well in the morning in the morning, including your plan for recruitment. On the other hand, the N-VA chairman, the same person, had all the security departments in the Michael administration, and he and his ministers made sure that the FGP had been calved. So I don't understand him. I want to make a political assessment. There are people standing by, standing by and shouting loudly. There are also people who call less loud, but do it on the premises. Madam Secretary, I place you in that second category and not with the callers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic414x.u35	Minister, thank you for your answers. With regard to the case of these two policemen, of course, the investigation is under way. I understand you can't comment on it any more. I just hope that Committee P will also look into this issue, as important as it is that the public can maintain its confidence in our police forces, not only in their occupation of the ground, but also when they may be suspected in such cases. It is really important that the household can be done, if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic414x.u36	Mr Segers, you were too late to ask your question, but of course you have the right to replicate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic414x.u37	I have been fortunate, Mr President. I also had a question in the Justice Committee about Operation Sky. I therefore hope that my question can be added to the report, especially since the question was also answered by the Minister. For the rest, I simply wish you every success in continuing and intensifying this important fight, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic414x.u38	We will ask the services if your question can be included in the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic414x.u39	Madam Minister, I am surprised at the speed with which the interplays are sometimes taking place in committee as much as you do. I fully understand, as I said, that you cannot give a concrete answer to all the questions today. However, I will table my motion for a recommendation, if only because you would not delay the concrete development of an action plan to tackle the under-staffing of police forces and correct the under-financing of police forces, to organise internal audits and to establish a system of regular proactive controls to check whether the access rights granted are still up-to-date and appropriate to the profile and competences.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic414x.u40	The President shall: At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Ortwin Depoostere and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mr Ortwin Depoostere and the response of the Minister for the Interior and Institutional Reforms, - whereas criminal activities can take place in this country, including through information on police operations in progress, customs controls, information on port facilities, etc. - whereas certain information held by police forces, customs officers, officials, people employed in port facilities are literally of gold value to criminals; - considering that the lack of resources and staff places great pressure on people working in this sector, and that this weighs on motivation; asks the government - draw up a concrete and urgent action plan to reduce the understaffing of police forces; - draw up a concrete and urgent action plan to correct the under-financing of police forces; - organise an evaluation of the operation of internal audits; - establish a system in which there is regular pro-active control to verify that the access rights granted are still up-to-date and adapted to the profile/powers (need-to-know).' A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Ortwin Depoortere and reads as follows: "The Chamber, ayant entendu l'interpellation de M. Ortwin Depootere and the response of the Minister of the Interior and Institutional Reforms, - Whereas criminal activities may develop in this country in part due to leaks of information concerning customs controls, police actions in preparation, port facilities, etc.; Whereas certain information held by police, customs officers, public officials, persons working in port facilities is literally worth gold to criminals; Whereas, owing to the lack of resources and staff, staff working in this sector are under considerable pressure, which is detrimental to their motivation; asks the government - to draw up a concrete and urgent action plan to address the problem of understaffing in the police services; - to draw up a concrete and urgent action plan to address the problem of underfunding of the police services; - to organise an evaluation of the functioning of internal audits; - to set up a system to verify regularly and proactively that the access rights granted are still up-to-date and in line with the profile/competences (need to know)." A simple motion was tabled by Mr Servais Verherstraeten, Mr Khalil Aouasti and Mr Tim Vandenput. A simple motion was tabled by Messrs. Servais Verherstraeten, Khalil Aouasti et Tim Vandenput. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic414x.u41	Minister, regarding the new policy on human resources management at the Federal Police level, could you please inform me of the cost of integrating an AINP during its first assignment (arms, individual equipment, training in computer tools, etc.)? Following this observation of the cost, do you consider it wise to train and equip a young police officer for the federal level to have to retrain and equip him for the local level a few months later? Would it not be more appropriate and cost-effective to accept the secondment from the first assignment of the young people who request it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic414x.u42	Mr Piedboeuf, aspirants police inspectors are trained for the entire integrated police force and not specifically for the local or federal level. At the end of the basic training, these new recruits join either a police zone or a federal police directorate for a period of at least five years, in principle. Only then will the staff member be able to request a change to another integrated police entity. Depending on the needs and jobs available, aspiring candidates themselves make a first choice as to their future duty station. If they have not been able to obtain a place through the voluntary mobility procedure, they are assigned to the federal police and may be temporarily seconded to a police zone or to a direction of the federal police. As a police inspector, the Federal Police spends an average of 41 099,187 euros, of which 31 124 euros for his remuneration and 3 075, 50 for his equipment. The vast majority of aspirants are thus appointed to a local police or federal police job, which does not have a pre-emptive right over the local police. Your question actually concerns staff members who, after completing their basic training, have not yet obtained a job through aspiring mobility or through classical mobility. In this case, they are appointed to the federal police and are paid into the temporary assignment service. In order to reduce its staffing deficit and ensure its missions as best it can, the Commissioner General has indeed decided not to second federal police officers from the ATA service to the local police or to agree to reduce from five to three years the travel time from the federal police to the local police. By doing so, the Commissioner General intends to consolidate the capacity still present to the federal police and then gradually fill this deficit. This decision is more than two years old. Whenever a Chief of Staff requests a detachment from the ATA service, it is this motive that is advanced in response. However, the federal police ensured that other detachments were allowed. As of 1 January 2019, 216 federal police officers were seconded to the local police; as of 1 January 2020, this number was reduced to 90 and 1 January 2021 to 31. I can add that a new recruitment concept is being implemented. In this context and contrary to the current system, any candidate will apply for a position within a federal police zone or police service. The candidate will therefore know, even before the start of his training, the entity to which he will then be assigned.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic414x.u43	That answers my questions perfectly, minister. I have nothing to add.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic414x.u44	Question No 55014825C by Ms Julie Song postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic414x.u45	Mr President, Madam Minister, I am asking you about the centralization of the police services from the railways to the urban centres. Some police areas in the province of Luxembourg have been concerned for many years about the drastic reduction in the number of police officers in the Railway Police (SPC). The last three SSC Luxembourg agents were informed that they would not be replaced after their retirement. The reason would be the lack of infrastructure to accommodate staff. Agents from the SPC Region East from the provinces of Liège and Namur will eventually be called upon to replace them. In particular, the relocation of staff has two consequences in terms of mobility. On the one hand, it must be noted that their number of preventive patrols is almost zero, if not non-existent, the numbers remaining as a priority in Liège and Namur. Following the announcement of the closure of four of the seven existing windows in the province of Luxembourg, the lack of police surveillance on the rail network may well reinforce the feeling of insecurity among travellers. On the other hand, the Namibian and Belgian teams will have to intervene on Luxembourg soil. This could lead to very long response times, with a risk of train immobilization for long hours. In practice, local police would be called upon to intervene. However, they are not trained to intervene on the tracks. In addition, these local police, with a large territory to cover, have core missions that move away their teams potentially present in the railway and railway sector. These additional interventions for the areas often cause delays in train schedules, which are forced to wait at the station. Minister, have you ever had an initial contact with the Minister of Mobility regarding the feeling of insecurity felt by travellers? If so, can you provide us with an update on these first discussions on the subject? In view of the government's willingness to extend the rail offer, could you re-evaluate the situation of the SPC in rural areas, particularly in the case of the province of Luxembourg? Otherwise, what are your reasons for maintaining the decision not to renew the three Libramont SSC positions?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic414x.u46	Mr President, Mr Hanus, I will indeed contact my colleague from Mobility to coordinate the common aspects of our competences. We are investigating the specialisation of the Railway Police, in close consultation with SNCB. The specialisation of the Railway Police is absolutely not in line with a reduction in rail supply. This operation aims to increase police presence and visibility on its priority area of action, namely trains, tracks and railway infrastructure for supra-local phenomena. In practical terms, for the province of Luxembourg as a whole, the scope of action is to intervene on the facts, to monitor and respond to the phenomena by introducing targeted actions on the priority area of action. SPC Eastern Region teams will therefore continue to provide the basic policing function here, as before. I would add that the specialization has been the subject of collaborative work between the federal police and the Standing Commission on Local Police since December 2018. There was never a question of putting the partners in front of the fait accompli. With regard to the role of the local police as the first speaker, I would like to point out that there is an awareness-raising training on railway dangers open to members of the integrated police in order to teach them to freeze a situation pending the arrival of the SPC. In short, the intervention teams will continue to cover the whole territory of the province of Luxembourg by adapting their working hours, in consultation with the zone chiefs. They will be directed to the sensitive points of the rail network. The ultimate goal is to increase the flexibility of the teams in the region in order, among other things, to develop targeted actions by integrating the needs of all partners in the security chain.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic414x.u47	Thank you, Minister, for the answers you have given me to my question. I am reassured to hear your willingness to have a consultation with the Minister of Mobility, and to see that you can agree on the subject of safety at and around stations. As regards the replacement of the persons concerned, if it is possible that these posts are also to be filled for Luxembourg residents, this could reassure the citizens of my constituency. I would like to thank you for the correctness of your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic414x.u48	Minister, since the coming into force in 2018 of the Act of June 25, 2017 reforming plans for transgender persons, a transgender person must no longer comply with all the medical requirements, once necessary, in order to adapt his or her first name. Since then, only their conviction is enough to change their first name. This change is therefore possible if they are convinced that the sex mentioned in their birth certificate does not correspond, or more, to their intimately lived gender identity. However, one difficulty still remains: that of administrative acts prior to the change of first name. The law does not provide for the modification of the first name on documents issued under the old identity. This lack of legal coverage is not without consequences. For example, some difficulties have been observed in particular in the labour market, given the discrepancy between the identity mentioned on the diploma and the current identity. Minister, can you tell me if it is possible today, with a certificate of change of first name and a change of identity in the National Register, to obtain a diploma taking on the new identity? If not, do you intend to take steps to remedy this problem? Has there ever been any reflection on this? Could you take joint action with the Ministers of Education?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic414x.u49	Mr President, Mrs Hanus, Article 1 of the Act of 8 August 1983 establishing a national register of natural persons gives the National Register the task of recording and storing information. This principle implies that the history of changes to the information must be recorded and conform to the legal reality, since the National Register of Natural Persons is not intended to record fictions. It should be recalled that, in this context, access to the data of the National Register and the population registers is strictly and restrictively limited and regulated precisely for reasons of respect for privacy. Access to the data, including those recorded in history, is limited to those bodies which are authorized, only for the purpose of carrying out tasks provided for by law or tasks of general interest. In addition, it should be recalled that the Law of 25 June 2017 reforming regimes relating to transgender persons, with regard to the mention of a change in the registration of sex in civil status documents and its effects, does not have retroactive effects on the change of first name or changes in the registration of sex. This implies that these changes will only have effect from the day of the change. The same law and the change in sex registration do not alter the relationship of filiation with children conceived before the change in sex registration. To the extent that the law of 25 June 2017 maintains the initial bond of filiation, this bond of filiation will not be modified further in the National Register. To return to the data recorded in the National Register, when an authorised body consults the Register, the current data will appear. But if this same body is to consult data as they existed in the past, it will indeed be the old data that will appear. The role of the register is obviously not to reveal the change in sex registration at any wind, but to allow a number of competent authorities and bodies to have reliable and correct data, access to the register being, as I have already pointed out, limited with a view to respect for privacy. Administrative acts issued prior to the changes are the responsibility and responsibility of each authority that prepares a document or administrative act to determine the data contained therein. To take the example of the diploma, it is of course not the responsibility of the Department of the Interior, but of the authority responsible for imposing the particulars which must be included in it. Finally, as to whether a reflection on this subject has been initiated, it should, in my view, be primarily concerned with the Civil Code, in particular with the need to provide for a retroactive effect of changes in the first name and/or sex registration.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic414x.u50	Madam Minister, I thank you for the elements of the answer that you are giving us today, which allow us to clarify and provide answers to all those people who are experiencing the administrative difficulties associated with their personal situation, as a result of their transition journey. I think it is very difficult for these people to cope with the administrative complexity that is caused by their transition, but I fully understand the analysis you are making. I take note of the information you have provided and will not hesitate to have it followed to the people and associations who have made me aware of it. I also congratulate you on your interest in this issue. I will continue to come back with other questions to bring this vital subject to life in our Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic414x.u51	Questions Nos. 55014925C, 55014926C and 55014927C by Ms. Kattrin Jadin are transformed into written questions. Attached questions No 55014933C by Mr Franky Demon and No 55015220C by Mrs Yoleen Van Camp are postponed. Questions Nos. 55015175C and 55015176C by Ms.Julie Song are deferred.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic414x.u52	Madam Minister, identity fraud is a growing problem in which new forms are emerging, such as in the Netherlands, where criminals copy the Instagram profiles of popular young people and influencers to empty bank accounts via a fake porn site. The digitalisation, and even more so since the COVID-19 crisis, has made internet banking the new normal and society more anonymous. Citizens also increasingly need to identify digitally in order to gain access to all kinds of public services. In such a society, identity fraud is given new dimensions that increase its impact. Often the victims of identity fraud have first become victims of emotive fraud or phishing. De Standaard of 27 February 2021 described the impact of emotive fraud on victims. Both the emotional and financial impact on victims of identity fraud is high. Criminal organisations use the victims' identity to open bank accounts in their names, which makes the victims of emotive fraud, for example, money donkeys. Criminals then apply that they obtained from the victims' accounts over several other accounts and banks, in order to make the search more difficult and ultimately to collect the money in cash abroad. I have a few questions about that. In your policy statement, you have stated that you want to combat identity fraud. What's your plan of action for that? How will you fight identity fraud? How will you ensure that the inhabitants of this country are better protected against identity fraud? How will you ensure that police officers are given the necessary reinforcements to identify criminal organisations and that local police officers do not refer the victims to online platforms such as safeonweb.be, but effectively register a report? How will you ensure that this is handled in a coordinated manner within the police? Is that by ensuring a proper flow of the various declarations of victims across Belgium to a specialised department of the federal judicial police? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic414x.u53	Mr Moyaerts, the aim is to protect the identity of citizens and continue to monitor, detect and combat identity fraud. By the end of 2020, the new identity cards, with fingerprints and a different layout, were introduced into all Belgian municipalities. The replacement of the old card model with the new one was necessary to comply with the provisions of the European Regulation of 20 June 2019 on strengthening the security of identity cards, residence documents and GDPR rules. In addition, a contactless RFID chip was integrated to make even better use of the cards as a safe and universal travel document. Also in 2021, the Kids ID, the alien cards for third-country nationals and the alien cards for European nationals will be renewed. The safety of the cards is thus improved, thanks to the introduction of new security elements and the fingerprint, which will make card fraud and identity fraud more difficult. For the police, the coordination of the fight against identity fraud is based on the COL 8/2019 of the College of Attorney General. Several actors are involved in the fight against identity fraud, namely the Public Prosecutor's Office, the local and federal police, the social and economic inspection services, the FPS Home Affairs and the FPS Foreign Affairs. Each partner is expected to identify reference persons on identity fraud. They will then act as SPOC of their organisation and must communicate the information on fraud cases to the other organisations. The reference magistrates shall ensure the follow-up of the files and serve as a point of contact for the authorities which provided them with the files. When a police department is informed of a potential risk of identity fraud, a basic investigation is carried out and the police report is delivered to the public prosecutor as soon as possible. Finally, there is a major task to raise awareness of the first-line services which issue or control identity or travel documents, such as the municipality and the local police. The awareness of the field actors will be increased from 2021, through the development of training through police schools. In case of questions or suspicions regarding identity fraud, municipal officials can always contact the helpdesk Fraud of the FOD, which is accessible via the website hotspot.belgië.be.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic414x.u54	Madam Secretary, with regard to those new fingerprints IDs, I have a nice snack. Recently I saw someone with me at the city hall who had the trouble to make that identity card with fingerprints, because that person had worked for 40 years in construction and hadn't had many grooves in his fingertips anymore. It was funny to see how he was doing that. It's not always easy. Madam Minister, in any case, criminals are not limited to consumers or businesses in cases of fraud. Moreover, it is often organised and even international crime, which can only be controlled by a coordinated approach between various organisations. Cybercrime, and in particular Internet fraud, not only affects a very large group of Belgians directly, but undermines our society and creates a sense of lawlessness. Cybercrime leads to unfair competition, a reduction in consumer and business confidence and less investment in the economy. As a result, Belgian trade as a whole is much less competitive. So it is really important, in all respects, to tackle everything that has to do with cybercrime as well as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic414x.u55	Mr President, Minister, I have a question about the forthcoming relaxations. I understand that, if the figures continue to evolve positively, it would be possible, from 1 April onwards, to organise outside a number of activities in the cultural and religious sectors, with 50 people. You probably didn't take this into account and perhaps you didn't, but on March 27th the Jewish community celebrates Easter. The forthcoming relaxations are very convenient for anyone who will celebrate Good Friday or the Christian Easter, because that will be one day after 1 April. This is also good news for the Muslims in this country, because I understand that the Ramadan will be celebrated around 10 April. So the Jewish community fell out of the boat here. Madam Secretary, now that you know that this is an important event five days earlier, I would like to ask you if you would consider, in consultation with the virologists, whether it is possible to advance the facilitations by five days. I don't think it's gonna come to those five days. Of course, my question only applies if these relaxations will take place on 1 April. If you now say that the figures are not good and that we will not allow anything, then my question is without object, but if the relaxations do come from 1 April, then it would be of humanity and good relations with all the communities in this country to allow them to celebrate their religious celebrations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic414x.u56	Mr President, Mr Freilich, I am aware that the crisis we are going through is a test for all Belgians, and I understand the frustration resulting from the measures. We all want to return to normal life as soon as possible, including the collective experience of a number of worship services. Unfortunately, the current epidemiological situation does not allow this and the figures we are seeing today are very worrying, including in the province of Antwerp. To avoid a third wave, we need to be patient. The Consultative Committee of 5 March has tried to provide a perspective for easing from 1 April, but they will not be able to enter into force until the epidemiological situation allows for this at the time of the next Consultative Committee, scheduled for 26 March. The GEMS opinion of 3 February explains the management strategy The epidemiological situation defines the contact budget of a society, in particular how many contacts and therefore how many infections we can allow. This contact budget can be filled in by a number of facilitations. It is inevitable that choices and considerations will have to be made. The GEMS management strategy, as outlined in the opinion of 23 February, aims to enable the gradual resumption and at the same time to protect us from the possible third wave of contamination. Some have already said that the third wave has already begun. In any case, the strategy is based on an evidence-based assessment. Of course, this also takes into account the mental health and well-being of people, as well as social and other economic criteria. For each relaxation decided for a sector, a multi-criteria analysis was prepared to see what was or was not cautious. The GEMS opinion of 23 February indicated that the evolution and modulation made it impossible to relax the measures for the following four weeks on the basis of that contact budget. The epidemiological situation and progress within the vaccination roll-out will be determining factors for any further relaxation after those four weeks. That is why those decisions were made on the basis of those dates, 1 April and 1 May. They may be reviewed or re-evaluated. The decisions to ease these measures are based on a comprehensive assessment of the number of cases, hospitalisation, positivity ratio and context indicators. Decisions to close, reopen or reorganise a particular sector or to stop or continue an activity, where appropriate under certain conditions, shall be taken by the Consultation Committee within the framework of covid management. It represents all the governments of our country and is decided by consensus, at least a prominent member of your party said so. A balance is being made on the package. These measures are based on scientific advice and on the advice of the GEMS experts. The Coronac Commissariat shall be responsible for the collection of such opinions. They will then form the basis of the discussion in the Consultation Committee. What is included in the Ministerial Decision has been agreed after consultation in the Consultation Committee, but also by the Federal Council of Ministers. There are suggestions that decisions are made without taking into account one or the other community or community of faith, or with certain milestones in the ecclesiastical year of certain religions. The only consideration that is being made is whether a situation allows it and what relaxations we can allow from a given date. As things stand at present, we will also have to be very careful for everyone at the beginning of April.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic414x.u57	The removal of the travel ban will take place on 19 April and not on 1 May, Madam Minister. That has to do with the Easter vacation. It is therefore possible to take a very small amount of account of certain situations. I'm not saying there's evil will, maybe it wasn't known. That's why I'll let you know. If the figures evolve positively, what we all hope for, a lot of people would appreciate that what is possible is being looked at.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic414x.u58	Mr President, the debates are moving forward quickly today and this issue is coming up an hour earlier than I had hoped. Minister, in September 2019, the European Commission proposed a new directive to put an end to changes in summer/winter hours. Member States could always choose their legal time, but under the proposal they would keep the same time throughout the year. As a result, these seasonal changes would no longer occur. This initiative of the European Commission was in line with a resolution adopted by the House of Representatives in June 2018. According to this resolution, the government had to plead with the European authorities for the repeal of the time-change mechanism if it ultimately proved to be superfluous or counterproductive. In his opinion given to the Committee on the Economy, your predecessor Minister of the Interior, explained that some studies show that the change of time causes negative health and biological rhythm effects. In summary, it was therefore a question of the time-change mechanism ending in 2021, which will not be the case since on the night of 27 to 28 March we will be moving to summer time. Will this be the last time Belgium makes a change of time? If not, why? Has Belgium taken a position on its preferred option for the future: summer or winter time? What is the status of discussions at European level on this issue? Has a coordinated approach been achieved? That seems essential to me!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic414x.u59	The Department of the Interior is indeed responsible for the legal time. The arrangements for summer time are, however, made at European level. While the European Parliament has indeed expressed its support for the abolition of this change of time, the EU Council of Ministers has not yet taken a position and will not do so in the short term. In this connection, I would point out that my administration is not involved in the preliminary discussions at European level. They take place in the mobility and transport sector and are currently suspended. At present, it is impossible for me to say when the last change of time will be made or to specify the summer or winter time option that will be chosen, if any.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic414x.u60	Thank you for your very clear answers. I hope that Europe will be able to coordinate and finally provide an answer. I have the feeling that every change comes back to the same discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic414x.u61	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Chanson's 55015175C and 55015176C were postponed. For reasons of absence, Mr Pivin may put his question. 55015210C not set.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic414x.u62	Madam Minister, during the hearings on the new funding system of the police zones, several speakers have come to our committee in recent weeks. For me, they were fascinating statements. I am sure you have read the reports and the presentations and will agree with me. The question arose as to whether they had already been contacted by you to participate in the multidisciplinary working group, as announced in your policy paper. Some speakers and organisations could confirm this, others had not received an invitation or have not yet received an invitation. We are six months further on in the legislature and I would have liked to have taken stock of the work of this working group. Who or which organisations are currently involved in the working group? Which other participants do you provide to invite? On what time? Among other things, the VVSG and Brulocalis indicated that they were not invited to the work. Will local authorities and such organisations still be involved in the working group? If not, why? Both insisted on the importance of involving local authorities and looking at the whole cost picture. Could you give us some more information about the work? What steps have been taken? During the hearings on a new funding system, the speakers indicated the need for an overall overview of exactly where funding is to come. Have you already instructed the Court of Auditors to draw up a global picture of the financing of the police areas? If so, how far does the court stand in its investigation? Will you share these results with this committee? If not, why haven't you given the order yet? Are you prepared to ask as soon as possible? Mr Bruggeman also indicated in the hearings that this debate on a new financing system would best be organised in a global direction between the government and Parliament. Where do you stand on this and what role do you see for both?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic414x.u63	Minister, I have tabled a bill to create a new standard for funding police areas. As part of the discussions surrounding this proposal, the Committee on the Interior heard a series of experts on 2 and 9 March. The debate was very enriching. There is unanimous agreement on the need to create a new funding standard, as we have mentioned in other files. During these hearings, I was surprised to hear from the Internal FPS Safety and Prevention Directorate representative that the multidisciplinary working group has not yet been set up. The missions of this working group were also not detailed. The administration did not seem to be very involved. I recall that the policy note states: "Our administration will be responsible for initiating and piloting a multidisciplinary commission of experts which must define before 2024 a new model of funding of the local police to enable it to carry out its community policing mission and its role devolved by the state." At this stage, I fear that we will not be able to make progress on this sensitive issue. For 20 years, police areas have relied on the federal government to secure objective and transparent funding. It is therefore time to review the funding of local police areas. Given the complexity of the work and the fact that other issues need to be decided beforehand – division of labour, what policy is desired for the future? – I reiterate our group's proposal to integrate this theme into those which are the subject of cooperation between your firm and our committee, as you proposed. Minister, how do you explain the delay in setting up the multidisciplinary working group? What steps are planned? How will he carry out his mission? What will his specific mission be? How do you intend to achieve your commitment and in what period of time?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic414x.u64	Colleagues, the study carried out by the University of Ghent in 2011 is the latest scientific study conducted as part of the funding of the local police. It was initially intended to determine the minimum police capacity for basic policing tasks, taking into account the environmental variables influencing these police missions. A costing would then be associated and federal funding could be decided on this basis. However, the result achieved was not up to expectations and the conversion of basic features to minimum capacity was hampered by the finding that, on the one hand, reliable data on the actual assignment of a police force to the various basic functions was not available, and, on the other hand, the finding that quality standards were non-existent for basic functions. An analysis was conducted to determine which parameters influence the basic features. A regression analysis was performed for five functions. However, the study did not produce the expected results. We are currently working on the composition, modalities and methodology of the multidisciplinary working group. I would like to put in place an approach involving a broad panel of experts. In addition to representatives of the police, towns and municipalities, independent experts in public economics and finance must also be mobilised. Moreover, the current hearings of the Home Affairs Commission on the financing of local police and the revision of the KUL standard have a clear added value in terms of the remit of the working group. Afterwards, an independent, external partner can be identified to support the working group in the concrete design of the new financing model. In any case, an important task of the working group will be to draw up a targeted task so that the external partner has a good focus and can take into account all needs. I haven't given orders to the Court of Auditors yet. The composition and working methods of the working group in the context of the review of the federal financing model for the local police will examine the best way of involving the Court of Auditors. As far as cooperation with Parliament is concerned, the definition of the working group's modalities will also examine how this can be done optimally. After twenty years, it is time to review the overall funding of local police areas. There is a need to find an objective and transparent funding model, based not only on the revision of the KUL standard but also on reform and integration of existing federal police and support allocations. At the federal police level, regarding personnel as part of the optimization evaluation conducted in February 2019, the federal police reported a deficit of about 16% to meet its T03 framework. The deficit was estimated at EUR 160 million. On operations and investments, the Federal Police has developed a multi-year investment and operating plan 2019-2024. On the basis of the collection of needs, it appears to have a structural deficit of around €40 million. The structural underfunding of the federal police is widely recognized. An injection of EUR 30 million was therefore granted in 2020 and an additional appropriation of EUR 50, 70, 90 and 100 million non-cumulative over the period 2021-2024, and introduced gradually during this term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic414x.u65	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. Several speakers indicated that it is important to first get a real full picture of current budgeting, including with regard to the budget share of staff, operational and CALog, both real and legal. Today we have no idea at all of the total cost of the police. I regret that you have not yet instructed the Court of Auditors to find out. I sincerely hope that you will do so, because then we can get a better picture. I also hear that you are thinking about cooperation with Parliament. I hope you will. I look forward to a good partnership.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic414x.u66	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. We feel well – and this is not a reproach – that we are in the infancy of this essential dossier and for which you have reminded us that there have been trials in the past to try to arrive at something coherent that takes into account the missions of the police today. All the speakers did remind us that one – the local police – could not go without the other – the federal police – and that there was a need for a comprehensive view of things, especially regarding support missions, etc. the federal police fill, or a little less for the moment, for local police. It's an essential file, as you know, a file you won't get to in a month. It is therefore necessary to prepare now to be very operational on the implementation of this new standard which is absolutely necessary in the various police areas and communes. There are great expectations on the ground, as you know, both in Flanders, Wallonia and Brussels. We stand at your disposal to support you in this important issue. The committee too, because as we have pointed out, we have had interesting debates which could feed your work on this important issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic414x.u67	Debates of the European Parliament Ms Chanson's 55015253C was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic414x.u68	Madam Minister, the Schaerbeek administration has been run for seven years by a municipal secretary and his deputy, who do not have the necessary language skills. Unfortunately, that is not an isolated fact. The reports of the vice-governor show that the figures in the Brussels municipalities and OCMW's are getting worse year after year. Almost 60% of the appointments to these local authorities were not in conformity with language legislation and were suspended. We had that debate at the committee meeting on 20 January. You stated in our committee that the detailed monitoring and the reasoned suspension decisions of the vice-governor are in fact a permanent reminder to the local Brussels authorities of meeting these legal obligations of bilingualism. That's right. Mr Pas and I then indicated that suspension decisions often do nothing. There is temporary discomfort with the local authorities, but at the end of the ride unfortunately nothing changes. The idea of an effective power of destruction for the Vice-Governor has therefore been in place for some time now. In that case, the language law cannot and cannot be ignored so quickly. This is also evident in this case, because in 2014 the appointment of the Schaerbeek municipal secretary was already indicted by our fellow parties in Brussels. Then the vice governor had just suspended the appointment of that person, but the then government ignored that suspension. Now it appears that the man has been employed as an intern for seven years and still does not reach the required level of knowledge of Dutch. The special thing about the news is that we are not dealing here with an ordinary official, but with a top official and his deputy. After all, we are talking about a municipal secretary, someone who has a lot of powers in the municipality. A supervisor shall be deemed to be able to direct his service, which he cannot do fully if he does not have sufficient knowledge of the two national languages. I would have liked to have been guided by initiatives to take out such distressing cases in the first instance. The bilingual nature of Brussels must be properly respected by every administration and every local official, but above all by the executives. That is the absolute minimum in the problem. Madam Minister, how do you intend to give priority to compliance with the language law in Brussels? Can you, or would you like to, talk to the Brussels Vice-Governor to work together on a plan of action to bring such specific cases to light? Can active controls be carried out on the language attestations required by the Brussels local authorities, first and foremost for the managers?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic414x.u69	Mrs Goethals, first of all I would like to refer to the answers my predecessors, Minister De Crem and Minister Jambon, have already given to similar questions. As Minister for the Interior, I am responsible for the administrative language legislation and its implementing decisions, but the power to monitor compliance with administrative language legislation by the Brussels Municipal and OCMW Boards lies with the Brussels Capital Government for the municipal authorities and with the United College of the Joint Community Commission on OCMW Boards. Questions concerning the exercise of that competence for the Brussels Capital Government and the United College of the Joint Community Commission should be put to the Ministers responsible. I would like to add that the vice-governor is responsible for controlling the ownership of the Selortaalattests required by the staff of the Brussels local authorities. Moreover, this control is not only limited to controlling the possession of the required language attestations, but also includes the control of the parity between the two language groups in management positions, which is also a legal requirement under the Staff Language Act. It is, moreover, on the basis of these two elements that the vice-governor has repeatedly suspended the decisions of the municipality of Schaerbeek, to which you refer, in the past.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic414x.u70	Madam Secretary, I understand that you are not directly competent, but it is a very poignant story. The fact that someone was eventually enrolled as an intern for seven years in order to remain in office is irresponsible to me. The municipality of Schaerbeek itself is aware of this and says that after the coronapandemic, the people concerned will have another year to obtain their language attestation. You yourself are a lawyer and you are aware that if we have to wait so long, we will be sent in with a brat. You can't do that anymore. The language attestations go hand in hand with language premiums. They are not in conformity either, and that should be kept in mind.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic414x.u71	Madam Minister, the 20th anniversary of the integrated police force is an ideal time to make an evaluation and to look at the future of the police. That is a very necessary but complex exercise. The current corona measures make the organisation of such an evaluation even more difficult. Madam Secretary, what is the exact format of those states-general? Who's in control? What is the start and end date? How will you ensure that there are sufficient external votes? Experience shows that quite often the people who were at the buttons of the reform are asked to make evaluations. Without making an intention process, it is natural for people to plead for their own organization. The importance of an external view is particularly great. I wonder how we will ensure that. Earlier, you have argued in favour of knowing the opinion of the citizen, which is certainly right, but how do you provide for interaction with the citizen in the States-General? What role do you provide for Parliament? What concrete output do you expect from that state-general and against when?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic414x.u72	Mrs. Ingels, it's no secret that the current police model is under pressure after 20 years. That is why, as Minister for the Interior, I took the initiative to organise a state-general of the police. It will indeed identify the challenges and formulate concrete policy recommendations for the future. The concept of such a state-general is centuries old and, in my opinion, dates back to the Burgundian period when all the positions were brought together to discuss the main social themes. In this case, the state-general of the police will link this tradition to renewal for the future. In any case, it must be a binding and overarching project that wants to bring together all the police strategic initiatives and projects. Existing vision and policy documents, relevant studies, evaluations and reports will serve as a basis for this. The final objective is to achieve a more attractive and better police force for all stakeholders based on a new approach and vision. The Presidency and the direction lie with myself and a core group of key partners. That core group will continue to implement the concept in the coming weeks. The State General of the Police will normally be launched in May and will run until 2022. After a start-up event, the key partners will organise various round tables on the main policy themes. There will be an interim event at the end of this year and a closing event at the end of 2022. The exact format of the start event will also depend on the sanitary situation at the time. For the time being, we are thinking of a physical event, as far as possible, with key partners and possibly live streaming for stakeholders. The key partners are the coordination committee of the integrated police, the general management of the prevention and security of the FPS Home Affairs and the non-profit-making Centre for Police Studies, Circle of Police Leadership and Centre d'études sur la police. In recent years, these non-profit organisations have always played a prominent role in the police landscape and bring together the academic world and the police. I'm not ruling out any other key partners. The core group will look into this in the coming weeks. In addition to the key partners, the States-General will also bring the other police stakeholders together. It is about the people and the police themselves, but also about different police authorities, the federal police council, the general police inspection and interest groups, such as the police unions. The Flemish Association for Cities and Municipalities, the Union des Villes et Communes de Wallonie and Brulocalis, for Brussels, will also be involved. Of course, Parliament will also be involved in the dossier. I have borne in mind that you and other Members wish to contribute actively to the States-General of the police, for which I thank you. Let us work together to see how we can make things more concrete. Two important issues will be dealt with in committee: police status and training. For example, hearings on the financing of local police can also be linked to the States General. The P Committee could also play an important role. The involvement of the population is viewed with the General Executive Board of Prevention and Security, which is already active in the field of civil participation. I will also look into the role the Minister of Justice intends to play in the States-General.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic414x.u73	I also encountered the concept of "State General" in Bart Van Loo's book, which is a very good book.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic414x.u74	Madam Secretary, thank you for your very comprehensive answer. At least I'm looking forward to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic414x.u75	Ms Ingels, the Director-General of the ATS is appointed by the Minister for the Interior. As regards the recruitment of the new Director-General, I have asked the Commissioner-General and the Chairman of the Permanent Committee of the Local Police to present me with candidates. Some candidates have been proposed to me for the time being and the selection procedure is under way. I hope, however, that this will be a tight time period for the candidate to take up his position from 1 April 2021. For the time being, I have appointed a cabinet member to the negotiating committee to represent me in the negotiations that are under way there.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic414x.u76	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic414x.u77	During the discussion of your policy paper, I asked you whether you also had plans in terms of remuneration in the context of the police as an attractive employer. I will not repeat your answer. In any case, you were prepared to see if there had been any pay delays in relation to similar jobs. Following an initial informal consultation with the trade unions, you formally started certain working arrangements on 12 February 2021. The main requirement of the trade unions is to start with the lowest wages and then gradually scale up, given the differences with the other services, such as the fire department or civil servants. That is indeed in line with your announcement during the discussion of your policy paper. However, at the second consultation of 26 February 2021, the trade unions reported that there was no proposal on the table. Following consultations, there was once again criticism, because the minister's representative had no mandate to negotiate and there was still no concrete proposal from the government. Further consultations are scheduled for 2 April 2021. That is undoubtedly one of the reasons why you would like to see the new director of SAT start on 1 April. The trade unions are talking about breaking words. Could you give me a little more explanation about this? Do you think there's been a word breach? How will you restore confidence? Apparently, a proposal has been promised to be put on the table by the end of the week, so that negotiations can really start on 2 April 2021. Is that right? Are you prepared to release the necessary resources to carry out the requested wage adjustment?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic414x.u78	Minister, my question also concerns the state of play of the negotiations that are important for the upgrading and attractiveness of the police function. What is the status of these negotiations and have you taken measures at budgetary level to consider the financial impact of this re-evaluation of the police function?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic414x.u79	Mrs Ingels, the negotiations were formally launched on 12 February, in accordance with the agreements with the trade unions. First, I discussed with them the evaluation of the previous agreement. Indeed, the removal of the chairman of the negotiating committee for medical reasons has caused some delays on the part of the government. We have also asked the trade unions to understand this. On Friday 12 March, we asked for the negotiations to be suspended until early April, when the new President will be present. I think using terms like "fault" is a bit far-reaching, given the circumstances. After all, it does not seem to me to be an unreasonable question from us, and it is also in the interests of the negotiations not to go too fast. That is why I will link the wage demands of the trade unions with the employability of the police. Attraction isn't just a question of pay. A more operational police, with radiance and pride on the uniform, is also part of that. Elements such as training and respect are certainly part of the package. The unions are impatient, which I can understand. I have met them personally several times since my arrival, both in group and bilaterally. I will, of course, continue to invest in a good relationship with them. As you have also seen closely, a sectoral agreement was concluded with Minister Jambon only three years after the beginning of the government. We are barely six months into the legislature now. I therefore hope that the serenity can return to be able to conduct these negotiations. That seems to me to be an essential condition for these negotiations to succeed. Mr Rigot, as agreed with the trade unions, the first stage of the negotiations on the sectoral agreement took place on 11 December 2020 with the assessment of the 2018 sectoral agreement by a technical working group. At that meeting, it was noted that, given the peculiarity of the police sector, the scales originally taken as a point of comparison for the sectoral agreement were the specific and non-generic scales of the public service. However, the treatment scales taken as a basis for comparison have not changed in the meantime. The unions asked to consider other salary scales in the public service. Since then, my representative has met with the organizations three times, on 12 February, 3 and 12 March, to discuss the baraemic scales of police officers in accordance with the wishes of the trade union organizations. It is still too early to take budgetary steps until the overall budgetary impact of the sectoral agreement is clearly defined. This will only be known at the end of the negotiations. In any case, Mr Rigot, I hope I can count on your support to support me in my budgetary work if necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic414x.u80	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answers. With a concrete proposal and a good new director of ATS, much can already be remedied. Negotiation does take time, but nothing is lost.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic414x.u81	Minister, thank you for your answer. Of course, you are right: to enhance the police function, so many other aspects can cause its appeal. However, let us not lose sight of the revalorisation of wages. Moreover, it is important to provide for the financial means – budgetary control will soon come – so that this necessary measure is not taken at the expense of the communal budgets which are already facing so many difficulties to help the police areas to keep up. I therefore count on you, as well as you will be able to count on me to defend this federal budget line when you come to present it to us in the coming weeks. Thank you, Minister, and wish you a good end of the day, while at the same time telling you that we are always in winter time!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic414x.u82	Intrafamilial violence during the lockdown is an inconsistent truth. All aid organisations talk about an increase in intra-family violence during past lockdowns. 'Due to the corona crisis, many families are forced to rely on each other. The lack of daily structure, a more limited social network and social isolation are risk factors for family violence. Add to this the increased fear and stress and you get a dangerous cocktail that can lead to an escalation of familial violence', says Wim Van de Voorde, Flemish coordinator of helpline 1712. They also call domestic violence the shadow pandemic. The figures speak for themselves. The helpline 1712 saw last year's calls for domestic violence increase by as much as 66%.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic414x.u83	Mrs Van Peel, a permanent instruction has been made at the level of the integrated police on reception and police victim treatment. This has been done with particular attention and guidance in relation to victim treatment and all possible forms of violence, such as sexual violence and gender-based violence. Particular attention has also been paid to violence in particular situations, anticipating the more limited possibilities of the victims to reach the police, either by telephone because of the perpetrator's presence or to go to the police station, especially in recent months. The above-mentioned permanent instruction on police victim treatment was adapted in the course of the month of November according to the above-mentioned accessibility and introduced the so-called revisit. She was associated with issuing the COL 20/2020. The Permanent Commission of Local Police has recently signed up to the Justipol Consultation Platform for the evaluation of the various circulars issued by the College of Attorneys General in 2020. Meanwhile, the federal police are working on practical and pragmatic tools in function of risk assessment. The treatment of such violence and sexual crimes within the local police zones is a combination of different services, including several specialised staff. On the basis of the initial findings, whether or not by first-line employees, supported by victim genes and sometimes trusted persons, further investigation is carried out by the detectives. The detectives are additionally trained in the matter to do so as best they can. Larger police zones have separate cells for intra-family violence in their police department in their organogram and are entitled to social assistants without police authority, to support and to achieve the bridge function with the assisting sector. Each zone has a reference partner violence, in accordance with letter 4 of 2006. That person is the privileged point of contact of the parquet reference office and also plays an important role in providing information to police officers who may come into contact with such victims. Since this specific role results from a joint letter from the Minister of Justice and the College of Attorneys-General in the courts of appeal, the question of its evaluation should be put to the Minister of Justice. In addition to the existing three projects Family Justice Center, in which facts of intra-family violence are presented in the same place in an integrated and integrated way, a scientific study has been launched in Flanders with a view to developing a model, in this area spread across the entire Flemish territory. In view of the COL 2/2002 on the division of tasks between local and federal police, morals are a matter dealt with by local police. With regard to the permanent teams sexual abuse, the integrated police are focusing on permanences in the care centers sexual violence. To this end, in the long term, specialised sex inspectors 7 out of 7 and 24 out of 24 will be available in the various health centres to deal with victims of acute sexual offences and to support them professionally. As you know, such care centres are currently engaged in sexual violence in Ghent, Brussels and Liège. Such centres will be set up in each province by the end of 2022 and any victim of acute violence will be there.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic414x.u84	Madam Minister, you have listed a few things that are very important in the fight against sexual violence and which are certainly taking important steps, for example the care centres and the linking of these teams. I understand that this will require some time for further development. It is good that the government has decided to build that further. I'd like to talk specifically about the lockdown. Did I get it right? It's not a reproach, because you weren't a minister at the time. I have said from the beginning, together with the aid, that something is coming towards us that we are not prepared for in terms of the approach, including with regard to the police. It will be necessary to enter it preventively during this period. We certainly need to re-contact those people who have less access to complaints, to protect them from the violence that is going to rise anyway. That is what I said and it has been shown. You are now saying that the discrepancy in the figures is there because it was not until November that it was decided to re-contact. Let me get this straight. Or didn't you agree to that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic414x.u85	Yes, I do.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic414x.u86	That's what you're saying. You say it's not in the numbers you gave me. I received the figures for the months of March to June. Maybe it wasn't clear in the question. The problem is this. The aid organizations say that there is a doubling and perhaps a triple. I have received the police statistics through a written question and there is a decrease in that. This proves, of course, what we have indicated from the outset, namely that there is a discrepancy between the methods of declaration and the courage to complain or to come out to complain. After a long push, but I personally do not blame you, because you were not involved, the government said that the police should indeed be able to enter proactively and that there would be re-contacts. Those numbers prove that this didn't really happen? Or is it because it wasn't set in motion at the time? You may not have the answer to that right now. Maybe my question wasn't clear enough. However, that is my most important question. I'm gonna have to ask a new question, I can see from your associate's face. I can hardly get angry, because you answered my question in the last instance.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic414x.u87	We'll follow it. If the question comes again, we'll look into it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic414x.u88	The questions which have not been dealt with are postponed to the next sitting, with the exception of Question No 5, by Mr De Gucht, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and
