ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic442x.u1	Good morning, colleagues and Madam Secretary. The agenda contains a long series of questions, for which we have until 12.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic442x.u2	Mr President, Minister, the testing and vaccination centres are largely populated by municipal staff. On 11 March, my colleague Jan Laeremans, Member of the Flemish Parliament, questioned Minister Dalle about the lack of knowledge of Dutch in the Brussels vaccination centres. A week later, a contribution by Luckas Vander Taelen appeared in De Tijd with the same story. With his opinion piece he put his finger on the wound, by saying that in the covidtest centres in the Brussels municipality of Etterbeek no one could speak to the Flemings in their own language. Even more, if a Fleming rightly didn't accept that situation and protested against it, he didn't get any excuses at all. No one was brought in who knows Dutch. On the contrary, instead, the police were called in, not to have language legislation applied, but rather to the opposite, as the person concerned came into confrontation with the police. From other reports we know that this event of Dutch ignorance is certainly not unique, but rather the rule rather than the exception. Nor is it the first time I have questioned you about this. I'm not the only one who makes such observations. Mr Vander Taelen concludes his contribution with the very pertinent observation: "The Flemish people's years of indulgence have led to the new being the monolingualism of officials, police and hospital staff and the need for Dutch-speaking Brusselsers to accept this, and for the police to be called in, not to enforce the language laws, but because someone takes it in his head to stand on his Flemish lines." This year-long indulgence of the Flemings is also at the level of the Minister of the Interior. I have repeatedly pointed out that if the Brussels government does not carry out its task, the Minister for the Interior, responsible for language legislation, must ensure that this legislation is amended so that sanctions are sanctioned. You can do that on various slopes. One of them is that the Minister of the Interior creates a special administrative supervision on this matter, for example by conferring the power to destroy illegal appointments in Brussels local authorities on the Vice-Governor of Brussels-Capital, as we have proposed on several occasions. Madam Minister, my question is what comment you have on the whole situation, outlined by Mr Vander Taelen, among others. Is this not another good reason to take effective measures to ensure that violations of the language law in Brussels are finally adequately sanctioned?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic442x.u3	Mrs Pas, in the incident at the covid test centre to which you refer, a citizen found in a Brussels covid test and vaccination centre that he was not or certainly not sufficiently received in his language. However, the administrative language legislation is clear: all covidtest and vaccination centres in the bilingual region of Brussels-Capital, organized and coordinated by the Joint Community Committee, must use French and Dutch as administrative language. This means, in concrete terms, that all messages and communications intended for the public must be drawn up in the two administrative languages and that every citizen must be able to be contacted in his or her language, in particular in French or Dutch. Where a citizen cannot be approached or treated in one of those centres in his or her language, there is a manifest infringement of the administrative language law which is of public policy. Any citizen facing such a situation has the right to complain about it. Moreover, the fact that this is a provision of care, where well understood information is crucial and sometimes even vital in the most literal sense of that word, reinforces the importance of correct and professional service in the two administrative languages. The monitoring of compliance with the administrative language legislation in and by the covidtest and vaccination centres in the bilingual region of Brussels-Capital is the responsibility of the competent departments of the Joint Community Commission and of the two Ministers of the United College of the Joint Community Commission responsible for health, in this case Mr Maron and Mrs Van den Brandt. I understand from previous discussions in other parliamentary assemblies that they are perfectly aware of this. I am therefore counting on them to shoulder their responsibilities in this respect and to do what is necessary to rectify the unacceptable problems that have been manifested and to avoid repetition. For the rest, I would like to point out that separate provisions of the administrative language law should not be confused. The covidtest and vaccination centres organised by the GGC are covered by the language regime of the central services and not by that of the local authorities. The Deputy Governor therefore does not play any role in the recruitment of the staff of the testing and vaccination centres.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic442x.u4	Madam Minister, just as Benjamin Dalle replied to my colleague Laeremans in the Flemish Parliament, you admit that this is a manifest violation of language law. You also recognise its importance, but it is very naive to expect that the situation will be corrected by the Brussels administration. You refer to the discussion in the Flemish Parliament. Mr Dalle has passed that on to the Minister responsible, Elke Van den Brandt, but it has remained deafeningly silent until today. They're not doing anything about it. It's not a one-time incident. I can give examples from the last few weeks, and the incident that led me to submit the question dates back to a month and a half ago. Yet nothing has changed, more than a month later. It is therefore very naive to expect Brussels to rectify this situation itself, because it has not been done for decades. I am therefore very sorry that you do not use this to intervene yourself and to control things elsewhere. After all, it is quite clear that it cannot be done in Brussels. This proves the impotence of the Flemish government in Brussels and of the Flemish ministers in the Brussels government. You have no choice but to act yourself, because if you allow yourself to act, it only goes from evil to worse.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic442x.u5	Madam Minister, we have been trying for more than six months to clarify the funding of the end-of-life system in both federal and local police. We were surprised that no budget had been included in the budget, whereas the cost of the federal police was estimated at 21 million and that of the local police at 97 million. The resources were completely at zero in the budget format. At that time, we tabled a legislative proposal to provide for the full imposition of charges at least before 2021. This creates legal certainty and clarity, which local authorities have been waiting for for for a very long time. In January, you said that there would soon be a solution, which would also be structural. It's April now. We have had budgetary control. However, we have still not seen the results. They still haven't been notified to the Chamber. The report of 11 March of the Monitoring Committee stated that the figures for the local and federal police for NAVAP had not yet been taken into account. It was 102 million for the local police and 39 million for the federal police. The day before yesterday, you issued a press release stating that funding for the local police regime will be borne by the federal budget and that it will amount to EUR 32.9 million, a much lower amount than estimated in 2020 and in the Monitoring Committee report. No mention was made of the costs to be borne by the federal police. To what extent was budgetary control taken into account the funding of police end-of-life arrangements? Is funding provided for effectively? What amount in total do you have auction for the federal police as additional credits? For what amount will you charge the local police? Is the charge limited to 39 million for the full year 2021? Finally, when do you intend to come up with a definitive settlement to solve the problem of the end-of-life arrangements with the police?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic442x.u6	Mr Donné, the NAVAP compensation was indeed the subject of a debate during the budget check. In doing so, the government, on my proposal, decided to maintain the compensation to the local authorities, but to work out it correctly, in line with, among other things, the previous proposals of the VVSG. This is why an important step has been taken in recent weeks to give the local police areas and local authorities more financial breathing space by providing compensation. Indeed, you have just referred to the press text - funding by the federal government of the real extra costs for the local police zones. It concerns the payment of the so-called watch money to staff who effectively enter into a non-activity scheme. Contrary to recent years, it is financed directly from the Federal Treasury. There is therefore no transfer from the local pension fund and therefore no indirect financing by local authorities. That's a big difference, isn't it? You also referred to the agreements made in 2020, but I do not need to remind you of the circumstances in which they were made. I would also point out that the practical approach to NAVAP will remain the same once the funds are available. That is to say, after approval of the Court's budget check, the police zones will be able to apply for the subsidy on a quarterly basis, as they have done in the past. Logically and in view of the timing, the first two quarters will be applied for in one movement and then can also be paid out. You rightly pointed out that the funding earmarked for the federal compensation of local police areas amounts to EUR 32.9 million. In any case, the NAVAP arrangement will still be the subject of the budgetary negotiations in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic442x.u7	Madam Minister, I understand that, as far as local police are concerned, there will be a much more limited burden than last year. It will also be limited to the waiting money for those who go on non-activity. The scheme will therefore be less extensive than in the past year. So there is a break in continuity there, which is unfortunate and very regrettable in a transitional period. I didn't hear anything about the federal police. There will have to be compensation again for the normal staff appropriations, which is also very regrettable.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic442x.u8	Minister, a few months ago, the SLFP-police union published the results of a survey conducted in 2020 among 4,000 members of the integrated police force. According to the figures published by the latter, the year 2020 would have been marked by a record number of violent acts against police officers. It is also noted that among these, cases of rebellions and insults would be the most frequent. Minister, how do you react to the publication of the results of this survey? What is the government's position on this? Can you explain this worrying increase in violence against police officers? This problem is not new and it seems to be exponential. So, what do you intend to put in place in the short term to effectively support police officers wishing to carry out their missions? Finally, what do you intend to put in place in the longer term to stem this phenomenon?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic442x.u9	Ms. Song, violence against police officers is expressed in different ways and although not all situations of violence lead to physical or psychological injuries, they remain unacceptable. For the year 2020, 13,128 incidents of violence against the police were recorded in the Misi stream. This represents an increase of 1,112 facts compared to 2019, where there were 12,016 records of violence against the police. This increase mainly concerns the areas of defamation, threats and rebellion. It is not easy to present the exact reasons for this increase. It is likely that the current health situation, in which police officers on the ground are responsible for the implementation of measures taken to combat covid-19, will have an impact on the number of violence. The contexts that give rise to the most violent attitudes towards police officers are often linked to identity checks following suspicious or criminal behaviour as well as to solitary confinement. In terms of prevention, many measures are in place and still need to evolve to ensure maximum protection for our staff. Emphasis should be placed on training, training with young people, role and situational play, work on attitudes to avoid escalation and control of violence. Prevention cards are regularly distributed to learn from an accident or incident and to see what preventive measures can be taken to reduce the risk to a more acceptable level. In addition, numerous risk analyses are carried out by the entities in collaboration with the prevention advisers and the management of the in-house prevention service, with a view to assessing the best way of approaching the different missions. Finally, I would like to conclude by noting that the recurring negative battling on social networks or in the press does not promote the construction or maintenance of a positive and trusting relationship with the population. The bashing police must stop and make room for the nuance, specific to reality. This demonstrates the need to invest in community policing and to continue to support initiatives that strengthen the positive link between citizens and the police. As I indicated in my policy brief, I would like to support existing initiatives to stimulate the comprehensive approach to violence against police and relief services. At the level of the Internal SPF, the "Respect for Safety Professions" campaign project has been launched. In addition, a ministerial circular issued by the two ministers responsible for the police is being drafted. The purpose of the circular is to deal with the management of the various procedures in the context of violence against members of the police, in order, inter alia, to enable the police hierarchy to support them as best as possible in this context.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic442x.u10	Mrs. Song, I don't know if you could hear the minister's answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic442x.u11	Mr. Chairman, for some unknown reason I did not hear the minister's answer. However, I thank her for her answer, which I will read later in the report. As a result, I am not in a position to reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic442x.u12	Debates of the European Parliament 55016233C by Mrs Ingels has been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic442x.u13	Madam Minister, on 31 March a number of Brussels 'young people' went down to the Blaarmeersen in Ghent, not to relax, but to fight, riot and confront the police. Of course, it brings back memories of last summer's events. Even then there was the phenomenon that young people went down to Ghent, but also to Blankenberge and others. Day tourists and families were harassed, furniture was destroyed, shops looted and so on. In Ghent, despite the fact that even someone was taken to the hospital, no arrests were made. Of course, this is a totally wrong signal and it would only confirm the feeling of impunity. Can you confirm the facts cited? Did the police intervene? Were there any pvs made? Were there any arrests? It's not the first time we've asked this question here. Mr Metsu is also a great advocate of this. Are you interested in taking initiatives to make blacklists possible to ward off amok makers from recreational areas and public swimming pools?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic442x.u14	Mr Depoortere, on 31 March the local Ghent police were indeed prepared for the sunny weather and the expected crowds on its territory. Part of that effort and preparations was focused specifically on the recreation area of Blaarmeersen, because of the expected many attendees on the beach. The police also intervened that day to maintain order. Four administrative procedures were drawn up. The person who, according to reports on social media, received medical care was contacted by the police for the purpose of reporting. The facts, as described here and as mentioned in your question, are the subject of further investigation. No further arrests were made during the intervention on the Blaarmeersen. We can tell you that already. As you know, I am currently working, in line with the government agreement and my policy statement, to extend or optimise the power to impose a place ban. I am also working on an extension of the 2006 circular on the nuisance in recreational areas. To this end, we consult with all relevant stakeholders and have conducted surveys, including among the recreational domains and mayors. We are working on a more effective tool for ammo makers and especially when it comes to known and repeated ammo makers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic442x.u15	Madam Minister, I am always struck by the fact that little or no action is being taken when Brussels-based amokmakers are getting into trouble, harassing people, destroying furniture, etcetera. However, telework is subject to very strong controls, to say anything. It seems clear to me that the corona measures have been broken here too. I must say that I find it astonishing that there were no more arrests and no more sanctions. Having said that, I am pleased with the steps you will be able to take quickly, in cooperation with the recreational areas and local authorities, in order to impose the place ban on such ammo makers. I hope that we can finish this before the summer so that we can solve part of the problem properly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic442x.u16	Madam Minister, on 2 April last, figures were published on the number of infections involving police officers, police officers and civilian personnel. Percentually, 21.5% of employees would have already been infected by corona. The police unions point the finger at the government, which would have done too little to protect the agents. There were no mouth masks, no hand gels, no tests. The latter would seem to still be a sore point; there would still be far too few tests available. Madam Secretary, during the first corona wave, the corona contamination was recognised as an occupational disease by the government. Now, cops should prove that they were getting corona at work before they got any support. Madam Secretary, can you confirm those figures? Perhaps also interesting to check, is whether there are significant differences between police zones. I can imagine that in crowded police areas the risk of infection may be greater than in rural areas. Are there enough tests available for the police personnel? Isn't there an opportunity to vaccinate police officers as a matter of priority, as happened to the care staff? Why is corona contamination no longer recognised as an occupational disease? Will you be able to change that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic442x.u17	Mr Depoostere, out of a total of 53,055 staff of the integrated police, the COVID-19 contact centre registered from 9 March 2020 to 13 April 2021, i.e. last week, 4,715 positive cases, representing around 9% of the total workforce. The police areas most affected by infection are police areas in the province of Hainaut, where the total number of infections during that period is between 27 and 40% of the total number of staff. In the provinces of Walloon-Brabant, West Flanders and Liège there is a total of about 30% of staff contamination. In the province of Namur it is 27 %. The integrated police currently have 20,000 rapid tests. If necessary, additional orders for rapid tests may also be placed through the occupational doctors. At my request and supported by the Task Force GPI COVID-19, the IMC Public Health and the Task Force Vaccination has met the demand for priority vaccination for the police and has been included as an exception in the initial phased scheme. The choice of this priority for the police seems logical to me, given the degree and extent to which the police can be exposed to an increased risk of contagion, because it is not always possible to apply social discrimination in the field of direct contact with the population, or other preventive or protective measures, given the nature of the activity and the intervention. The vaccination of these police officers is, in principle, carried out at the place of residence of the staff members in the vaccination centres set up for that purpose. Each Land organises this at its level, either through a direct invitation from the vaccination centre in the Flemish and German-speaking Community or on the basis of agreements with the employer and vaccination centres in the Brussels-Capital Region and the French-speaking Community. It is not true that COVID-19 would no longer be recognised as an occupational disease for staff of the integrated police. However, the method has changed after the first wave. In the first wave, integrated police staff were able to use an automated system temporarily, as they were included in the occupational diseases lists. Afterwards, the staff of the integrated police are no longer included in that list and thus in the rules for automatic recognition, although they can still obtain recognition of COVID-19 as an occupational disease by relying on the open system for the recognition of the occupational disease. That is what is happening today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic442x.u18	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic442x.u19	Madam Minister, as every year, at the beginning of this year I requested information on bilingualism in the Brussels police force. The information you have given me on this subject shows that it is very dramatic with this bilingualism. Last year, however, there was a very significant fall in this area. I quote some striking figures from this synthesis. By January 2020, 57.7 % of Brussels police personnel were bilingual, a year later it was only 51.6 %. That is a historic decline of no less than 6 percentage points. In the case of new recruiters, this is not compensated because only 11% is bilingual in recruitment. It is only the Flemings who pay the price because 96 percent of Brussels agents know French while only 55.5% know Dutch. This means that a Fleming in Brussels has 1 chance at 2 to face an agent who does not understand him and who he does not understand himself if he does not know French. The fact that the majority of the population in the capital of this country is being treated in a step-motherly manner in terms of language is unacceptable. I have also asked you in my written question what you will do about it, but, as with the answer to my question just now, you are completely shifting responsibility from you by simply referring to the Brussels authorities. It is true, of course, that they share responsibility for this, but I would like to remind you that, as Minister for the Interior, you are legally competent for both police policy and language policy in Brussels. If you find that the law is not being complied with by these Brussels authorities, it is indeed your duty as a competent minister to take measures to ensure that the law is complied with. Madam Minister, how do you respond to the dramatic evolution of bilingualism in the Brussels police force? Can we expect an action plan to bring about a change in this matter in the short term?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic442x.u20	Mrs Pas, we have already exchanged questions and answers on this subject a number of times. You know, of course, that this is part of a wider debate in which the socio-economic background also plays. The language skills of the local Brussels police services and the taking of appropriate measures fall within the competence of the Brussels municipalities, the police zones and the supervisory authorities, in particular the Brussels-Capital Region. It is therefore up to these municipalities and those police areas to encourage staff to take the necessary training, particularly in the linguistic field. Furthermore, in practice, it is not the case that when a Dutch-speaking police officer patrols with a French-speaking colleague who may not be officially bilingual, they do not understand each other. They understand each other thanks to a passive knowledge of the other language of the country and there is still room for work. I agree with you that this is not an ideal situation, but in many cases a solution is nevertheless found. I also agree with you that efforts remain necessary in order to have more bilingual police officers in Brussels. As has been said, we must also look at the necessary influx. That's a challenge sometimes. That influx is partly socio-economic and we don't have it completely under control. In addition, however, the competent authorities must do everything in their power to ensure this bilingualism.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic442x.u21	Mr President, Minister, you say that I repeat these questions. I have to. I have no choice but to repeat these questions, because the situation is getting worse and there is no intervention. As long as that doesn't happen, I'm gonna keep knocking on that nail. Like your predecessors, you are completely hiding behind the authority of the other boards. I acknowledge that there is that power, but you also have the power to act when you decide on matters. You certainly have the opportunity to do so. For example, you can create special administrative supervision and make the law more enforceable. I will continue to ask questions until, unlike your predecessors, you will take the initiative to bring about a change of heart.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic442x.u22	Mr President, Madam Minister, for several years now our country has been familiar with the phenomenon of transmigration, seeing a number of people of foreign nationality travelling through our country to another country. In this case, we are only a place of transit. These persons are usually placed along motorways or on motorway parking lots in order to attempt to get into a truck or vehicle. For example, I am aware of a camp of about twenty transmigrants which has settled in the commune of Fexhe-le-Haut-Clocher, next to my commune and 15 kilometres from the city of Liège. This raises a number of questions, both health and safety. The security forces seem to be disempowered from this type of situation, having neither the material nor the legal means to intervene safely, both for themselves and for migrants and citizens. Minister, I have a number of very concrete questions to ask you about this issue. How many such settlements are listed in the national territory? In my commune, I set up a reception facility in the old communal house. Are there State reception facilities for persons who are in transit on Belgian territory? What means are available to local authorities to deal with this phenomenon? Are you considering specific reforms in relation to the specific problem of transmigration?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic442x.u23	Mr President, Mr Goffin, the federal police database does not allow a structured search on this subject, but it is possible to give a global picture of the phenomenon. In Belgium, we do not know the equivalent of the large tent camps that we see, for example, in our French neighbours. We were able to know embryos of such camps in the provinces of West and Eastern Flanders, Hainaut and Liège, but these facilities were evacuated from the outset by the communal services in order to avoid the nuisances associated with them. Sleeping bags and tents were also found in the vicinity of the car parks of Mannekensvere, Bierges, Bettincourt and Froyennes, and were removed by the communal services for the same reasons. Moreover, these cleaning operations always take place in close cooperation with the various specialized services in order to ensure the accommodation of the persons found on site and to provide them with medical and social assistance, clothing or other. With regard to your second question, I refer you to Secretary of State Mahdi. The reception of asylum seekers falls under federal jurisdiction, but as long as they do not seek asylum, they combine illegal residence status with a vulnerable humanitarian situation. The reception of people in need is a regional and local subject. In order to avoid an aspirational effect, regional and local authorities can only provide for a day-time reception if this does not result in nuisances. In addition, correct information on asylum procedures or voluntary return should be provided on a mandatory basis. These initiatives are also places where Fedasil's official overseas teams can meet with transmigrants and inform them about procedures. Police monitoring of compliance with the Aliens Act as stipulated in section 21 of the Police Function Act is the responsibility of the basic police missions and therefore of the local police in accordance with our integrated two-tiered police model. Where the own resources of a police zone are insufficient, it may request external support under the traditional solidarity mechanism. On the one hand, in the event of unforeseen interception, mutual assistance or reinforcement of the Federal Reserve may be used. On the other hand, for planned actions, the necessary resources may be requested after consultation with the coordinating director of the district, whether it is personnel support, administrative assistance or special means such as a helicopter or specialised dog support teams. This problem is above all a multidisciplinary operational problem. With regard to nuisances in motorway parking, we have seen very good results thanks to the accompanying measures taken by the Flemish Region on car parks. I support them through the federal police. As I indicated in my policy statement, I am ready to work with the Walloon Region to take such accompanying measures. However, such action is a regional competence. So I have to wait for an initiative from the Walloon government.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic442x.u24	Madam Minister, thank you for your answers and for the few factual elements that you have been able to share with me. Once again, we see that the organization of our state often makes things difficult. Behind this, there is a real humanitarian problem. The reality of people in transmigration is at home, at our doorstep, whether in small towns or in large cities. You're telling me I have to speak to Secretary of State Mahdi, which I'm sure I'll do. In addition, regional competence must be activated. Nevertheless, people are in transit on our territory. Not doing reception work in well-structured conditions is not a correct answer, I believe, to a reality that we have to face. Indeed, the possibility exists to apply for asylum, but there is also the reality of these people who are only passing through the territory. I believe that our State must also provide solutions to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic442x.u25	Minister, a report from the General Inspectorate of the Federal Police and the local police - in somewhat provocative title: "Are all the cops incompetent?" -, published on April 6, reveals some problematic facts. These include the lack of information collected on the number of deaths due to the use of firearms, acts of illegitimate violence, racism or discrimination by police personnel, the absence of a uniform integrity policy and monitoring aimed at preventing and identifying extremism and criminal influences. Minister, our police services perform essential functions in our society. While reading the document gives a negative answer to the question as its title, it nevertheless recommends several improvements to be taken into account. Can we benefit from your feedback on the issues raised in the report, as well as the recommendations mentioned? Can any initiatives be hoped for, particularly with regard to the facts I have just mentioned? Finally, the report devotes an important part of its investigation to the issue of ethics. Many points tend to emphasize the need to strengthen its role in police training. Are any related initiatives being considered at this time?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic442x.u26	Madam Secretary, following the report of the General Inspectorate of the Federal Police and of the local police, I have submitted two questions. Firstly, I would like to thank the authors for the very interesting document and congratulate them on their work. They have delivered a very beautiful, nuanced and well-founded document, with some concrete recommendations for policy makers. We should definitely get to work on that. The first question deals with the lack of reliable figures. A striking observation from the report is that there are no reliable figures for Belgium on police violence. However, the report refers to an unpublished report of the internal prevention service of the federal police. It states that two persons died in 2019 as a result of the use of a firearm. However, that report also states that not all cases are recorded for different reasons. So there is actually no system to keep these figures up to date, let alone that they are available to the general public. The recommendation of the General Inspection is therefore that the government itself should establish a public database with figures of illegal police violence. Ideally, violence against policemen is also included in this database. Another observation is that the Belgian police in 2021 does not actually have funds for scientific research, nor does they themselves carry out scientific research. This contrasts with countries such as the Netherlands, where scientific research is used to support the functioning of the police in the framework of the Police and Science programme. What are your views on the recommendation that police violence should be monitored and made public in a more reliable and systematic manner? Are you also thinking of initiatives to provide scientific support for police work in a more scientific way, similar to the Dutch Police and Science programme? My second question concerns the integrity policy with the Belgian police. This was, of course, also the main subject of the vision document Addressing integrity within the Belgian police. This report reveals some important bottlenecks in the current integrity policy. Firstly, the report states that the deontological code of the police services is actually too passive and that more active implementation is necessary. A survey of police forces also shows that the initiatives on integrity policy that are currently being taken are not really linked to organizational control, which actually limits the quality and impact of integrity policy in practice. That is an important observation. A survey of police schools shows that most do not have an integrity policy plan. However, many police schools indicate that there is problematic behavior of aspirants. That inappropriate behavior doesn't really get a consequence. For example, references are made to inappropriate statements on social media, illegal use of police databases, cross-border behaviour, etc. It is important that such irresponsible behaviour could lead to a negative assessment in the assessment of aspirants. Finally, as one of many recommendations, the General Inspection highlights the importance of structural consultation with civil society and citizens in the development of integrity policies. Hence the following questions about this. What lessons do you draw from the report on police integrity policy and, more specifically, from the police schools? What measures will you take to strengthen police integrity policy? I am thinking here of both a controlling and a stimulating integrity policy, both of which are necessary. Finally, you intend to involve civil society and citizens in this exercise so that dialogue between police forces and citizens can be effectively established.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic442x.u27	Madam Minister, I think my colleagues have already set out the conclusions of the report. I will draw on a point in the report that has been mentioned little; it is the screening of police officers, which must be organised throughout their careers, to ensure that their commitment is complete to ensure the safety of all citizens. It is well known that, in the past, police officers sometimes made xenophobic or even racist statements on social networks. I wanted to know if this screening was planned, as the report suggests. In general, I wanted to know your reactions to this study of the AIG. Is there a mechanism for reporting missing data? Should it be strengthened? Would you be in favour of a periodic screening procedure during police officers' careers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic442x.u28	Mrs Jadin is absent, so her question remains without an object, but Mr Demon had another question on the same subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic442x.u29	Madam Secretary, on April 7th, De Tijd published the article 'No reliable figures for police violence'. This article was about the vision document: 'Are all cops incompetent?' of the general inspection of the federal police and the local police. In the past, racism, discrimination and illegal police violence have repeatedly attracted the media. The general inspection therefore considered that an investigation was urgently needed. There are no clear figures on incidents involving police violence, racism or discrimination. Transparency is needed in order to address the problems and recognise their own mistakes. You will not hear me say that this is a one-sided thing. Violence against the police is equally a problem that we have to deal with. In order to guarantee the integrity of our police force, and this is a value that is at the heart of both you and me - I do not think it would be bad to take the step towards transparency as soon as possible. Questions arise about the uniformity and coherence of integrity policy. The general inspection states, among other things, that the screening of individuals and the entire monitoring of police integrity are actually flawed, that there is no coherence in the punishment of disciplinary offences, that there is no certainty of proper disclosure to disciplinary authorities and that there is a lack of professional integrity checks. I am absolutely aware that you are fully involved in the new disciplinary legislation and that you place integrity at the heart of it, but I still have a few questions. How is the draft new disciplinary code progressing and will this legislation provide for a more uniform punishment for officers who are in breach of disciplinary law? Will you look at the possibilities of setting up a unique reporting system or hotline to identify forms of police violence, racism or police discrimination? Will there be legislation on the handling of these complaints? Will work be done on a database relating to violence against the police? Will you provide better screening of police officers and better monitoring during their careers?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic442x.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I can assure you that my full attention is drawn to the vision document of the General Inspectorate of the Police. A central register of acts of violence by but also against the police has already been implemented within the police. This is the MISI registry I've already mentioned. Particular attention should be paid to the reporting of incidents in order to be able to take, where appropriate, the necessary preventive measures and/or to adapt training and training. With regard to racism and discrimination, it goes without saying that the police also rely on monitoring of the supervisory bodies and Unia. In addition, following an interdepartmental conference, a multidisciplinary working group is currently working on an anti-racism plan. The police services participate and contribute constructively. Within this framework, the integrated police are working in particular on the establishment of an action plan to combat ethnic profiling. I share with the General Inspectorate of the Police the concern for more diversity within the police. It's in line with my political statement. In concrete terms, the Personnel Directorate is developing a diversity monitoring of candidates applying to the Federal Police Recruitment and Selection Department in collaboration with the Diversity Unit. With regard to integrity checks during a career, this screening is being prepared. For example, the Integrated Police participates in a working group with the judicial authorities to update the circulars of the College of Attorneys General on the flow of information on the subject between police and justice, in order to optimize these flows. Deontology and, in particular, the fight against racism and discrimination are already taking an important place in basic training today. Several further training courses for the police officer also cover these themes and are also included in the current federal training plan. Training must pay constant attention to this. This is also why basic training will be extended to include professional profiling. Cooperation with the Dossin barracks, where the Holocaust, police and human rights training is taking place, will therefore continue. Additional developments, such as the Polarisation programme, are still completing the training offer. The overall police integrity policy also takes into account the latest scientific insights, such as Professor Maesschalck's model integrity management framework, which is currently under study. As I have already mentioned in my policy statement, a reform of the Disciplinary Act is planned to ensure a smoother handling of disciplinary matters and to obtain as much legal certainty as possible in this respect. This calls for dialogue with all actors, including trade unions, in order to reach a consensus on reform and its implementing decisions. In any case, this is on the agenda and should be treated as a priority in order to be able to pursue an effective and sound policy on employers and employees in relation to disciplinary matters, even when they concern certain ethical issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic442x.u31	Minister, thank you for your answers. Some of my questions were not answered specifically, although I was able to find some elements in your overall answer. You are talking to us about many things that are under way or that are being discussed in working groups, some elements that will be the subject of reform. Nevertheless, the situation is alarming and worrying and we must be able to respond quickly. I would therefore like to see practical things implemented in the short term. I hope that we will be able to see the results of the work you have been doing for several months because we cannot be content with question-and-answer sessions. Practical applications are needed not only for the citizen, but also for police personnel who work under sometimes uncomfortable conditions. I will be paying attention to the implementation of the elements that you have told us about in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic442x.u32	Madam Minister, thank you for your answers, which I welcome. They highlight significant issues, which are in full line with your general policy note. I will point out four points on which our attention must be drawn: the monitoring of diversity within the police, the flow between justice and police, the importance of training – especially for professional profiling – and the reform of the disciplinary law, which you want more effective and surrounded by more legal certainty. I can only rejoice in your willingness to do so. All this remains to be achieved, in line with your policy note.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic442x.u33	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. I note that you will be open to greater transparency and work on a database, thank you for that. You have also spoken out against racism, you will work on it in the screening of aspirants and you will work on greater diversity. You want to use the cell Diversity for that. I believe it is important to create an inclusive culture in the police. You also refer to some initiatives to complete the training in the police schools themselves. These are all very important measures. The reform of the disciplinary procedure must be the culmination of an integrity and disciplinary policy. In addition, we must also work on a more stimulating approach, but this is also included in the framework of Professor Maesschalck van de KULeuven, to which you referred in your reply. I would also like to join colleague Chanson. You are indeed taking this issue to heart and working on measures, but it is also important that we send a signal or change things in the short term, which shows that we are not putting things off. As far as my question of scientific justification is concerned, in previous answers you have already underlined the importance of an evidence-based approach. But a real answer to my question whether there will be a programme on police and science as in the Netherlands, I did not get it. Maybe we can talk about that again at a later date. The involvement of civil society and citizens in the integrity policy has not been addressed in your reply either. This is, of course, contained in the recommendations of the general inspection. I have heard that you will take these recommendations very seriously. So I look forward to the initiatives you will take in this area. Alvast betankt.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic442x.u34	Minister, I have heard several good news in your speech and thank you for that. The main is a real awareness of a phenomenon. Indeed, we have moved from a minister who explained that complaints of police violence were made by extremist groups to a genuine awareness. The government agreement indicates zero tolerance for citizens who commit acts of violence against police officers, but also against police officers who act violently. While the two debates are certainly linked, police violence should not be systematically justified by attacks on police officers. Of course, these are two key issues that policy needs to address, but they require separate responses. The issue of diversity in the police is a noble cause, in whose name you undertake commendable work. However, many studies in the United States show that this measure has not contributed to reducing racist police violence. For this reason, we must try to distinguish these aspects. On the other hand, I am particularly pleased to see that you are taking up this problem with arms and that your team will carry out various actions in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic442x.u35	Madam Minister, I have heard many positive things, such as your continuing concern about the issue. At one point, you said you'd involve civil society. Maybe I misunderstood, but I think that's very important. As several colleagues have said, it is important to come up with results at some point and I think it would not be bad to set a realistic timeline there. If it is not possible to speed things up, then perhaps Parliament can make a contribution. I have heard a lot of positive news, but unless I am mistaken, I have not received an answer to my question as to whether a database on violence against the police can be created. As Mr Moutquin has also said, we are absolutely in favour of zero tolerance for violence by and against the police. We need to look at that together and deal with it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic442x.u36	Mr President, Madam Minister, in the last few days you have not escaped a petition against the Mounted Police. This petition leaves me puzzled for two reasons. First, because there are circumstances, such as those of patrols in forested areas, for which the Mounted Police are interesting. Then, because I have no doubt about the proper treatment of horses. Nevertheless, this petition allows us to reflect on the use of horses by our police to disperse a crowd in the context of a large demonstration, as on the images of the wood of the Camber that we were able to see. Indeed, here we are far from the link that the horse can create within the framework of a proximity police and which is sufficient to justify its use. It seems to me that it is not normal, in a context like this, to see police horses literally loading young people, but also to be subjected to attacks and violence, on what really looked like a battlefield. Minister, on the basis of what criteria do the authorities decide to use the Mounted Police? Within what framework and with what objectives? Has there been any reflection on the merits of using our Mounted Police to disperse crowds during such demonstrations, which involve many risks to it? In view of the risk it poses to demonstrators, horsemen and animals, is this method really proportionate? Finally, observers were surprised that the Mounted Police horses were relatively poorly equipped with protections during demonstrations such as the one held on 1 April. If horses continue to play a role in this type of event, should their equipment and protections not be improved?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic442x.u37	Mr President, Madam Minister, I would like to ask you what happened on 1 April last at the Bois de la Cambre in Brussels, namely this famous gathering called "La Boum", which was supposed to be a fish from April, and which eventually brought together between 1,500 and 2,000 people. Among them, it is true that there were people who came to contest the health measures, especially in the aftermath of the court order on the illegality of these health measures, but there were also young people, families, couples who came to the park to escape from their narrowed apartment or this sad and perspectiveless daily life. It was in this context that the police had to intervene to disperse the crowd because the too many people present prevented the observance of the barrier gestures. He was followed by a real battle, with 26 policemen, 8 demonstrators and 7 horses injured. A new Facebook event is announced, a "Boum 2" on May 1. Her organizers have asked you, Madam Minister, to supervise him, which you have refused. This can be understood in view of the health situation which led the last Codeco to post the end of curfew and the enlargement of the outer bubble from four to ten people, that is, after the announced event, on 8 May. The organizers also appeal to you because they say they are waiting for a reply from you to set the final date for this event. They suggest that it could take place later than 1 May. I am therefore worried because this "Boum 2" is a time bomb with already 7,400 participants and 16,300 interested people announced on Facebook. Therefore, Madam Minister, could the event "La Boum 1" on Facebook not have been banned? Who decided to deploy the device (cavalry, water guns, tear gas, helicopters)? On the basis of what elements? When was this decision made? Was this device, in your opinion, proportionate? Shouldn't the protection of horses be improved? What are the rules, recommendations and protocols to be applied by the police for the use of dogs or police horses? What is the risk of a citizen hurting a police dog or a mounted police horse? Concerning "La Boum 2" which is announced, what final answer are you going to give to the organizers, the collective "L'abyss"? Have you cooperated with the mayor of the City of Brussels? [[I'm]] What measures will be put in place to prevent spillage? Is an event authorization possible by conditioning it at a later date, when suitable health protocols could be available? There is also mention of a closure of the wood of the Cambre. Do you confirm that? Do you not think that this closure could further increase frustration and thus violence on this occasion?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic442x.u38	Mr President, Minister, as you heard from my colleague, a new online event was organised on social media almost immediately after the events in the Ter Kamerenbos. The collective, called l'Abîme, reportedly wanted to launch a new initiative in the Brussels park area in the period from 1 to 15 May at the time of the preparation of my question. In an open letter addressed to you, the collective asks for your response. The collective would like the youth to organise a 'La Boum 2'. Madam Secretary, have you been able to make contact with the people behind the collective l'Abîme? How do you communicate with each other? What are your conclusions? Are you prepared to look for alternatives, as suggested by the collective? Do you see or is there any margin for negotiation? What course of action did you agree with Brussels mayor Close and the Brussels Prime Minister on this appeal, as you have a shared competence with them? How will governments respond to further steps if this group threatens to continue its action? To what extent does local police have the resources and manpower to respond adequately to a similar event as La Boum?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic442x.u39	Ms. Song, in accordance with section 22 of the Police Function Act, the special means to which the equestrian police belong are always deployed by decision of the authority of the administrative police or at the initiative of the police officer responsible for the operational management of the police service. Their deployment at events is closely supervised by several regulatory texts. The mobilization of all police resources, including equestrian means, is conducted in accordance with judicial rules, depending on the general context of the specific threats and risks associated with the event. The method incorporates the limits of tolerance set by the competent administrative police authority; the evolution of risks; the legitimacy, proportionality and effectiveness of measures with regard to the desired effect, which will always be the priority of de-escalation of violence. Equestrian means are indicated when managing events, as they bring added value in both preventive and reactive tasks. Modes of action include surveillance patrols, crowd piping, escorts, sector protection, area searches, open spaces and, exceptionally, dispersal of violent groups, as well as support for the arrest of individuals and groups. These operations are always carried out under the supervision of the competent administrative police, of course. When the police on horseback are mobilised in a repressive manner to strengthen the other units, they are always mobilised on the basis of an assessment of each moment of the situation by the line of command, on the basis of the information available, and because they are an effective means of dispersing a crowd. During an event management, police horses wear specific protection. Given that the initial mission was to patrol to monitor compliance with the co-vid security measures and that the risk assessment of the event could not assume that the event would be violent and would involve high risks, the highest level of equipment protection was not required in the first phase. It was only in a second stage that the riders and their respective mounts could be equipped with additional protective parts. More generally, it should be noted that a federal police-specific procurement service closely monitors the evolution of the equestrian department, with a view to mobilizing all aspects that could improve the well-being of horses. On the occasion of the incidents at Bois de la Cambre, I ordered a thorough investigation to the Commissioner General, to assess whether the Mounted Police remain appropriate at such a demonstration, but also from the point of view of animal safety. I will keep you informed of the outcome of this investigation. Ms. Goethals, Ms. Rohonyi, the event in question, originally conceived as an April fish, was de facto prohibited by the Ministerial Order of October 28, 2020. Article 15 prohibits the assembly of more than four persons. The organizers were also fully aware of this. The device was deployed on the basis of a dynamic risk analysis. As a result, it has been constantly adapted to the information and events that I must no longer recall. The final assessment shows at leisure that this arrangement was not disproportionate. Always with regard to horses, they were engaged in law enforcement missions, in accordance with the principles set out in the Ministerial Circular of March 31, 2014. These special means are used only when other means are inoperative and attempts to de-escalate have failed. This was the case in the situation in question. In principle, the same applies to dogs who, in principle, have a second-line defensive mission to protect units already engaged, but in a vulnerable position. A person who, in the context of our work, would injure a police horse is subject to criminal, civil and also administrative prosecution if provided for by local police regulations. The Brussels police are currently trying to contact the organisers to discourage them from continuing with the announced event on 1 May. The various administrations are currently consulting to monitor a common approach, both administrative and judicial. The police are committed to media communication in order to discourage participation in the event as much as possible. A preventive occupation of the site with teams and means of communication should complement the existing operative. In any case, an intervention reserve will also be ready to intervene when it would get out of hand. Given its size and configuration, the Ter Kamerenbos is difficult to close for all pedestrians and cyclists. If necessary, car traffic can be rerouted. We have tried to contact the organisers of the event, including the open letter to young people, but they have not yet managed to do so because they have not made themselves known in person. They did respond to this open letter anonymously again. The current sanitary conditions do not allow such a meeting, especially since the recommended corona measures in this type of activity are unlikely to be respected. The local police have the support of the federal police to intervene at new gatherings. The necessary preparations for this are currently being made.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic442x.u40	Minister, thank you for your specific answers to each of my questions. You've been talking about an investigation, which I'm glad to hear. I hope that we will be able to achieve this very quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic442x.u41	Minister, I will speak a little longer than my colleague, Julie Chanson, although I have received some answers to my questions. I am pleased to hear that a closure of the wood of the Cambre is not envisaged – it must be remembered that this wood is the garden of many of Brussels –, that a consultation is under way with regional and local authorities, that a communication work is being carried out on social networks to raise awareness among young people. It is, in my view, this work that has been far too missed in the context of the health crisis. On the other hand, I do not understand how the consultation with the collective "L'Abîme" is impossible, since it explains on its site that it is at your disposal and that it does not hide. For the rest, I would like to stress that what happened in the Bois de la Cambre, but also in Liège, Knokke and other municipalities is symptomatic of the loss of public support for health measures that do not take into account the collateral damage they cause. Today, we see that a sling is organized among young people, but also among all sectors that feel forgotten or unjustly pointed at. I therefore call on you to take this into account in the development of health measures, on the occasion of the Codeco which will meet this Friday and which is responsible for examining this famous plan "Plein air", in the framework of your bill Pandémie, but also with regard to the proportionality of the police devices that will still have to be deployed to frame the upcoming demonstrations. Indeed, whether we want it or not, there will be more. In the light of the testimony of the participants that was brought to my attention, I am not convinced that the mechanism put in place was proportionate. In my view, proportionality must be ensured in the interests of all, that is to say, those who take part in these demonstrations, but also police officers who, it will never be said enough, are sufficiently stigmatized because of the fact that they must enforce measures they have not chosen, which are unpopular, strict and difficult. It is therefore also in their interest to ensure that the arrangements put in place are proportionate to the demonstration they must supervise.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic442x.u42	Mr President, Minister, as my colleague has already said, I find it extremely strange that you or your services cannot contact the collective. It is now time to take firm action. We must strive for uniform and clear communication, not just between politics and the police. We must also involve the journalism that can play a strong role. That must become evident. I am still convinced that preventive action is still the best way to keep everything under control where possible. Parties are often announced online. It must become a must respond to this. Problems can be avoided. Wrong estimates should not and cannot be an excuse for misjudging or misapprehension today. Only with a firm and clear communication and mode of action does everyone know what he or she can expect, no matter how difficult the situation is today and no matter how eager young people are today to spread their wings. I understand them well, but we need to talk eventually. We are still talking about public health today. You too can and must take responsibility for this. We're gonna have to hang in there until our 65-plussers are vaccinated. Let's hope it's a tilting moment in the pandemic approach so everyone can get some breathing space. People need perspective. You could be a part of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic442x.u43	Minister, in most police councils in single-municipal areas, the legislation that prevails is that which also applies to the communal council. Thus, the right to make a citizen arrest at the municipal council is valid, by extension, for the police council. In Wallonia, this provision is also guaranteed by the Code of Local Democracy and Decentralization. However, the multi-municipal areas are not covered by this legislation. Thus, there is no obligation on the police councils in these areas to provide, within their regulations, the possibility of questioning the college or the police council by the citizens. Minister, in my view, this is a problematic difference in treatment in terms of transparency as well as democracy. Do you know about this situation in Wallonia? What about the Brussels and Flemish regions? As with single-communal areas, could you register the citizen inquiry as a right within multi-communal areas?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic442x.u44	Dear colleague Song, as a reminder, within a multi-communal police zone, the police council exercises the powers which are those of the communal council within the single-communal police zone in matters of organisation and management of the local police force. Following institutional agreements in Lambermont, the Regions have become competent to lay down rules on the composition, organisation, competence and functioning of local and provincial institutions, including the communal council with similar powers in the management of the organisation of the local police force. The methods of operation of the communal council and the police council, even if they are to a large extent united, are therefore not strictly the same. The possibility of asking questions of citizens' initiative in public debate to be included in the rules of procedure is not provided for in the law of 7 December 1998 for the police council within the multi-municipal police zones. It is therefore not a mandatory but rather optional provision that is offered to a multi-community police area. There is currently no harmonisation between the above-mentioned law applicable to the police council within a multi-municipal police zone and the regional decrees in the Flemish and Walloon regions applicable within the municipal council of a single-municipal zone.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic442x.u45	I thank the minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic442x.u46	Madam Minister, the so-called Channel Route has been in the elevator since 2018. Last year, according to the French maritime prefecture of the Channel and the North Sea, almost 10,000 migrants would have illegally crossed the Channel or at least tried to cross it. That is more than four times more than in 2019. In August last year it became known that France and Britain are working on a new plan to block the route across the North Sea. Belgium was not involved in that consultation at the time. Ann Lukowiak, federal magistrate of human trafficking, then warned that this might cause the problem to move to our shores. At the end of November, the British Interior Minister Priti Patel and her French counterpart Gérald Darmanin signed an agreement to make the crossing of the Channel completely impossible by doubling the number of coastal patrols and using drones. Earlier, both states concluded the Le Touquet Conventions, in which France undertook to keep migrants from crossing the border, for which they were paid by the United Kingdom. Three years ago, with the Sandhurst Convention, the country committed EUR 50 million of additional funds. Madam Minister, I would like to have an answer to the following questions. What steps has Belgium taken since August last year to get involved in the French-British talks, which resulted in an agreement? Was Belgium effectively involved in these talks? Is Belgium somehow involved in the French-British agreement that entered into force on 1 December 2020? What financial and logistical support will Belgium now receive from the United Kingdom in the fight against illegal immigration and crossing the Channel? What measures have been taken in the meantime to prevent the problem from moving from France to our coasts?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic442x.u47	Mr Van Langenhove, first of all I would like to say that crossing the North Sea with small boats is essentially a French phenomenon. According to French figures, 15,000 transmigrants last year risked crossing to the UK, with more than 8,300 people effectively achieving the British mainland. In Belgium, only a few attempts have been made in recent years to reach the UK in this way. If there are interceptions off the Belgian coast, it is usually boats that have drifted from France. Since this government took office, both Secretary of State Mahdi and I have been in contact with our British colleagues, Home Secretary Patel and Minister Philp, responsible for Migration. These contacts confirmed good cooperation on migration and transmigration between the two countries. The Belgian police services were neither involved in the negotiations nor in the conclusion of that Franco-British agreement. Since 1 March 2021, the Belgian federal police have participated in the activities of the Unité des renseignements opérationnels, with the main aim of optimising the exchange of information on human trafficking. A proposal to participate in the CICC, the joint French-British Commissioner, is currently being examined by the police for its added value. In March 2020, the federal police were able to conclude an agreement with the Home Office, providing £784,000 for the purchase of equipment in the fight against transmigration, namely drones, CO2 detectors and a Rigid Hull Inflatable Boat. Currently, the federal police no longer receive any financial support from the British. Of course, there is still daily support. For example, in Zeebrugge there are two teams of four people from the UK Border Force working daily. By means of technical detection equipment, they carry out checks at port terminals in search of human presence in cargo. They have no police authority whatsoever and are therefore always accompanied by members of the Belgian federal police. On top of that, the UK Border Force also supplies two migration dogs with escorts, who are also looking for transmigrants in cargo. Especially that last tool proves its added value every day. The UK proposes to continue and, if necessary, extend this support. In addition, our federal police are working well with the British National Crime Agency to combat the networks of smugglers. The DirCo of the federal police encourages and coordinates local and federal actions against the problems of transmigration and organised human trafficking based on accurate imagery. The local police forces involved, mainly the West Coast police zone, and the federal police entities, are working intensively together for this purpose, allowing very short play on the ball when information pops up on the possible departures of transmigrants towards the Belgian coast. Every day policemen also receive the necessary feedback from their French colleagues regarding attempts to cross the Channel from the French coastline. In addition, there is also a neighborhood information network operational in the marinas to quickly detect suspicious acts and pass them on to the police. On the basis of this accurate imagery, targeted checks can be carried out on the West Coast to places where a vessel can reach the beach. Sensitive sectors at sea for such sailings are monitored with various coastguard partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic442x.u48	Madam Secretary, thank you for your comprehensive answer. It is true that it is still mainly a French phenomenon at the moment, but since the French and the British are concluding concrete agreements and want to tackle the fight against this form of illegal migration across the Channel more strongly, we in Belgium still need to prepare ourselves for a possible shift in the problem. In this context, it seems appropriate, in addition to the good discussions in which cooperation is confirmed, to move towards more concrete agreements in order to prepare ourselves for a possible shift in the problem. The proposal to participate in the CICC certainly seems to us to be something to follow. I will certainly continue to ask you about progress in this area in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic442x.u49	Mr President, Minister, I would like to refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic442x.u50	Mr President, Mr Segers, it is indeed correct that the trial at first instance has led to a ruling. However, as you may know, the judgment at first instance was appealed against, so that the judgment of first instance has not yet been res judicata and the case is still pending. In my capacity as Minister of the Interior, it is not for me to interfere in an ongoing criminal record. That is precisely why I find it difficult to answer the precise questions you have asked today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic442x.u51	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your brief reply. I understand, of course, that you cannot make far-reaching statements now because the case is pending. However, I really hope and count on you not to wait for the appeal for the internal investigation. I would ask you to do what can happen now. Rather than looking at the results of the possible investigation, I now asked whether the investigation is ongoing. If that is the case and if you can give the signal that you take the matter to heart, I am quite reassured.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic442x.u52	Madam Secretary, I don't know if you'd like to comment on that reply. I don't think so.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic442x.u53	Mr President, we are following up on the dossier. That is what I want to say.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic442x.u54	Mr President, Minister, I had addressed this question to Minister of Justice Vincent Van Quickenborne, but I heard from the services that you will answer them. In the meantime, this government has been working for some time. The same applies to the Cabinets of Justice and Home Affairs. As Deputy Head of Cabinet, the Minister of Justice has taken up the former Director of the OCAD, the esteemed Mr Paul Van Tigchelt. My group and I can only welcome the fact that people with years of experience in our security apparatus are being recruited to work on our justice and security policy. However, this raises a number of questions. After the departure of Mr Paul Van Tigchelt as director of the OCAD, was his post declared vacant again? How's the recruitment process coming along? How long will this mandate be completed? At present, the deputy director of the OCAD is acting ad interim. Can you explain why this function is observed ad interim? What impact does the lack of an appointed director and deputy director have on the functioning of the OCAD? Who is currently the liaison between the government and the OCAD? How does this cooperation work? When the ministers took office, Minister Van Quickenborne announced his intention to amend the OCAD Act in his policy statement and note. What will be the starting point for this legislative amendment? When can this change of law be expected?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic442x.u55	Mr President, Mr Metsu, Article 7 of the 2006 Law on the Analysis of the Threat provides that, in the event of dismissal of the Director or the Deputy Director, his successor shall be provided for as soon as possible in order to complete the current term of office. The appointment of Mr Gert Vercauteren by the Minister of Justice and myself has therefore made it possible to immediately provide for the successor of the then Director. He can observe this function as an interim in principle until April 2022. The selection procedure for a new director has not yet been started for several reasons. One of the main reasons is that, in consultation with the Minister of Justice, we are indeed in the process of amending the OCAD Act. The aim of this amendment is to reinforce, inter alia, four new support services for the OCAD, as well as to clarify the coordinating role of the OCAD. We also analyse whether it is still necessary that the new director of the OCAD should always and in any case be a magistrate. As you will understand, it is logical to get the legislative change around that statute and the organisation of the OCAD first, so that we can also determine an adapted job profile for the new director of the OCAD. In any case, the intention is to complete the legislative amendment as soon as possible and to initiate a selection procedure within the shortest possible time limits. In the meantime, the daily operation of the OCAD is ensured by the Director ad interim. As you may know, Mr Vercauteren has been head of OCAD's analysis since 2009. So it is certain that he knows the organization very well. We also have excellent cooperation with him and regular consultations. We are therefore confident that the OCAD is also being well run at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic442x.u56	All my questions have been answered pertinently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic442x.u57	Mr President, Madam Minister, a few years ago, the survey "My experience of sexism" revealed that 98% of Belgian women have already been subjected to street harassment once in their lives. On Wednesday, 17 March 2021, an operation against street harassment was carried out in the train station district by members of the Brussels-North police zone. During this first operation, no conduct, meeting the elements of an offence and requiring the writing of minutes, was found, although the speakers raised awareness several times of some authors of remarks, reveals to us the communiqué of the zone. On Sunday, April 4, 2021, during a second operation in the neighbourhood, two derogatory behaviors were observed by the team on the ground. It should be noted here that the method used was communicated by the Intersection Network and adapted from a model carried out by the police zone of Liège: three plainclothes police officers (one police officer and two police officers) patrol in a neighbourhood identified by the police services. If the police officer or another person is subjected to street harassment, the police officers will intervene in flagrante delicto and initiate the legal proceedings provided for by law. Minister, what is your feedback on the points raised? Are the use of this method by other police areas, the introduction of additional methods involving, inter alia, other actors in society or the deployment of a larger number of police officers envisaged and encouraged? The communiqué of the Brussels-Nord police zone points out that the "street harassment" law of 2014, which defines the behaviour that meets the elements of an offence, is still too unknown and regrets that, too often, victims do not file complaints, which can create a sense of impunity for the perpetrators, despite the publication of the guide "Gender and Public Space in 2020". Can we have you back on this issue? Are specific measures envisaged?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic442x.u58	Madam Secretary, with the sexism patrols here we see a new way of doing things. These patrols are active in two of the six Brussels police zones. There was the case where an undercover agent was intimidated by a man. That way, perpetrators can be caught red-handed. It is very good that these two zones work with sexism patrols, but elsewhere that remains a big problem. More than one report of sexual violence is made in Brussels every day. That's just the tip of the iceberg, because most women don't press charges and adjust their behavior. The testimonies are staggering. Women get chased, touched, assaulted, dragged into cars and what do they do? They adjust their behavior and never come to Brussels again. Such matters must be fought by hand and tooth. Madam Minister, is there any concrete intention to start these sexism patrols in the other police areas, not only in Brussels but also in the other cities? If so, how much resources will you allocate to this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic442x.u59	Colleagues, street harassment is subject to a clear legal framework. Unfortunately, the elements of the offence as well as the identification of the perpetrator are often difficult to ascertain. The Brussels-North police area has decided to examine the possibilities of making the legal framework operational. It should be noted that this is the result of genuine networking, exchange and sharing between police and judicial actors and civil society. Based on the experience of the Brussels-Capital-Ixelles area and on a draft operational approach developed in Liège, a four-module training was created in the Brussels-North police area to help police officers better understand and improve the reception and care of victims, as well as the quality of the minutes to be drawn up. It was planned to organise these trainings at the beginning of the year, but the crisis led to the postponement of the first sessions in October. They are also open to other police areas and magistrates of the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office. The Brussels-North area has already carried out three operations under this project, mainly in the North Quarter. An analysis is under way to identify new areas of action. Mrs Bury, as you say yourself, the Brussels police zones Capital of Ixelles and Polbru have indeed developed and introduced this kind of patrol to combat that street phenomenon. I have learned from information from the other Brussels police services that within the South police area this problem is addressed as a whole and is part of the overall view of the area of sexual violence, sexism and bullying. The facts are dealt with by a cell set up on 20 January 2021 to cover and support the victims of those acts. In addition to that cell, this problem is taken into account in the normal work of patrollers and other staff, of course also in the field. The Brussels-West police area is currently preparing to address sexual harassment of women in the public area even more specifically, with the aim of raising awareness of the phenomenon to all reception and first-line workers. In this respect, training around this phenomenon will also be provided in the short term. The training will focus on the impact of the phenomenon on women, on the human reception of poor sacrifices and on the qualitative preparation of minutes. From the regular functioning, district and intervention activities and operations there will be a focus on and approach to the phenomenon. The elements concerning the capacity, the budget for training and the organisation of site dispositives will be determined in the short term. In the Brussels police area of Uccle-Oudergem this problem is not present or much less present and no concrete steps have yet been taken towards an approach. On the other hand, it can be explained that the issue is one of the topics which are currently being discussed and developed in the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Women's Rights, which seeks to define appropriate directions for solutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic442x.u60	Mr President, I thank the Minister for her response. I stress the interest and importance of training in four modules to which you referred in your reply, highlighting important points: improved reception, follow-up of complaints, quality of reporting. It seems to me appropriate to stress that it would be useful, necessary, important for it to be extended and offered to all the police areas of the country.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic442x.u61	Madam Minister, as my colleague said, these training courses are very important. Now, when you talk about the different police zones, it is not entirely clear to me. You're saying these training courses are being intensified. As far as Oudergem is concerned, the problem is less serious, but I would also like to make the necessary comments about the fact that there is a dark number and that these things happen there, but perhaps to a lesser extent. Specifically, are sexism patrols established there? You mentioned the short-term training budgets. How long is that short notice? You'd like to look at the matter in interministerial terms. That's very good. But will the other cities be looked at? I didn't really have an answer to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic442x.u62	Madam Minister, on 18 July 2019, the administrative arrangement for assistance and relief in the border area between Belgium and France was signed by the Belgian and French Interior Ministers then in office. This arrangement provides, inter alia, that requests for assistance in relation to operations related to the management of relief may be made, in the event of a common or recurring risk, between the presidents of relief zones and the prefects of departments or prefects of defence and security zones and, in the event of a particular and ad hoc risk, provincial governors and prefects of departments or prefects of defence and security zones. In recent months, Belgian-French cooperation in assistance and relief has shown several shortcomings. By way of example, I will simply mention the fact that, during a fire in the Mont-à-Leux district of Mouscron, reinforcements to the Muscron firefighters were provided only by the 28-km-long emergency zone of Tournai, while the barracks of Tourcoing (in France) are only 3 km from the place of intervention. This particular problematic situation, as well as several others, can be explained by the postponement of the signing of the local protocol on cooperation between representatives of the Picardy Wallonia Relief Zone and the Northern Fire and Rescue Department due to the current health crisis. Madam Minister, can we receive your feedback on the problem raised, as well as on the nature of the cooperation between Belgium and France which allowed the signing of this protocol? Has an assessment of the current situation been conducted? If so, have any improvement points been identified? If not, is an evaluation considered? Have any feedback from French officials been sent to you?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic442x.u63	Mr Senesael, the Civil Security Act of 15 May 2007 allows rescue zones to conclude cross-border cooperation agreements with any public authority in a neighbouring country with a view to more effectively managing its civil security missions. For Belgium, no national framework agreement was therefore necessary if the law was sufficiently clear. On the other hand, the French legal framework provides for an intergovernmental administrative arrangement on cross-border assistance to be signed at national level before the prefects of the departments can sign local agreements setting out the procedures for intervention. The required administrative arrangement was therefore concluded and signed by the Ministers of the Interior on 18 July 2019. It provides for the possibility for the border relief zone or for the governor to request assistance from the French relief services and vice versa. In order to make this possibility effective, it is up to the zone and/or the governor to conclude a local protocol with the French authorities and to make it operational. This stage is currently under way at different stages depending on the emergency areas. For the province of Hainaut, the governor's office informed the department of the Directorate-General for Civil Security that the protocol would be transmitted this week to the governor and then to the relief zones by mail so that it would be signed on the Belgian side. It will then be forwarded to the French authorities for signature. Where a local protocol is operational, the administrative arrangement provides for the preparation of an annual review to be transmitted to the respective Ministers of the Interior. This assessment will allow the evaluation of cooperation between the Belgian and French relief services. However, we are not there yet and there has therefore been no return of the French authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic442x.u64	Minister, thank you for your clear answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic442x.u65	Debates of the European Parliament 55016495C by Mrs Hanus has been converted into a written question. Madam Secretary, do you have time to deal with the last question?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic442x.u66	I have a meeting with some mayors about the corona measures and the proper maintenance of order. I can stay another ten minutes, but then I have to finish.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic442x.u67	The questioners will be brief.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic442x.u68	Mr President, Minister, every week new allegations are being made about the alleged fraud committed by Mrs El Kaouakibi. From the district of Antwerp over the Schoon Verdiep to the Flemish government, there's waiting everywhere for the next body to fall out of the closet. We must therefore continue to have this debate and turn the last stone around. At the federal level, too, these flows to Mrs El Kaouakibi must be investigated. Madam Minister, you have already started an investigation into the EUR 200,000 grant that went to We Love BXL under the Channel Plan of your predecessor, Mr Jan Jambon. The EUR 200,000 was intended to prevent radicalisation in Brussels. However, there are already allegations that this money would have been used to renovate Mrs El Kaouakibi's closets and to buy new crockery. Those allegations need to be investigated. However, the question is much wider. We Love BXL was founded 10 days before Mr.Jan Jambon's royal decision to cooperate with this non-profit association. The amount involved is EUR 200,000 for a non-profit association that had not yet carried out any activity. The municipality of Molenbeek and local civil society were watching this with great eyes. This is understandable if people know that they have to fight for every euro and be controlled to the point. Moreover, there are doubts as to whether the activity of the non-profit organisation We Love BXL is sufficiently extensive to justify such an amount. We need to find out what the procedure was before this subsidy was paid, how control was carried out and why there was no cooperation with existing civil society. I look forward to the results of the investigation you announced, but I also have a number of questions for you. When did you start that investigation and what's the timing? What procedure was followed in awarding the grants? How do you explain the allocation of such sums to a newly created non-profit-making non-profit-making non-profit-making non-profit-making association? Wasn't there a public call from the minister to various non-profit organisations? Was the hand handed out to local civil society or was only contacted with We Love BXL? Can you provide the grant files submitted by We Love BXL, as well as the opinion given to them? How was the monitoring of the use of funds carried out? What procedure is followed by the Home Office in respect of the grants paid out? Is that procedure respected? Was the nonprofit supposed to motivate her spending? In what way did this happen? How do you judge the controls? If there are audit reports, can you provide us with them? Since you took office, did you go from your cabinet to the non-profit association We Love BXL? If so, did the method differ from that of your predecessor? Finally, I would just like to insist on the fact that we here as representatives of the people are assessing the grant files given to them by the Cabinet or the FPS and that we should be able to look at any inspection reports. So I would really like to ask you to provide us with those documents. One of the problems we see in the file is that large flows of money were made without democratic debate and without proper control. So we must now put all the cards on the table and clarify the possible abuses by El Kaouakibi and the political leaders.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic442x.u69	Minister, in 2017, Sihame El Kaouakibi created the ASBL We Love BXL to establish itself in the municipality of Molenbeek and to propose emancipatory and training activities for young people in the municipality, based on the model of Lets Go Urban that had been developed in Antwerp by the same person. This ASBL received in 2018 and 2019 subsidies amounting to 200,000 euros from the then Minister of the Interior, Jan Jambon. At that time, I had repeatedly questioned Minister Jambon on this envelope, which was then worth 100,000 euros, to finance We Love BXL, totally unknown to the Brussels community. The time was very sensitive as it followed the March 22 attacks. The minister could not really justify the procedure for allocating subsidies. Moreover, there was no procurement procedure for such amounts, which is not normal. Today, we learn that there has been no collaboration between the ASBL We Love BXL and the municipality of Molenbeek, which obviously raises questions. Minister, can you confirm that the rules for Minister Jambon's granting of this subsidy have been respected? If not, what has not been respected and what are the consequences? An amount of EUR 100 000 for a youth support association was enormous and had been debated at the time. You have requested an investigation from the Internal FPS into the use of these subsidies. Can you tell us what these funds were used for and when you will have the result of this investigation?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic442x.u70	Of course, the questions are covered in a wider dossier, involving not only the federal government and the Minister of the Interior, but also other governments. What is particularly close to my heart are the young people involved in the initiatives: we pay sufficient attention to their future prospects or opportunities. The questions are mainly about the funds, but we must also remain concerned about the young people who can or could be addressed with them. We must not leave them in the cold for the sake of their future. Ms Daems, after the attacks, the government decided with the former Minister of the Interior to grant a one-off grant of EUR 200,000 to the non-profit organisation WeLoveBXL, for a two-year period, i.e. from September 2018 to September 2020. The decision was taken by Royal Decree of 30 July 2018. However, that grant decision established a number of conditions for granting that grant. Until now, with the implementation of Article 11 of the above mentioned KB of 30 July 2018, only an interim and limited car evaluation report was received in August 2019, in relation to the activities organised by the non-profit organisation in the light of the objectives set out by the RB. No irregularities were identified on the basis of the car evaluation report. As a result of recent developments, I have given the mandate to request the financial file and the accountability of the non-profit association in order to ensure a possible in-depth financial control and settlement in accordance with the grant decision. It goes without saying that these financial documents will be subject to careful scrutiny and that attempts will be made to recover the subsidies unduly used which may still be used. Recovery may in principle take place up to 10 years after the decision has been taken, subject to a thorough review of the financial documents. No time limit has been set for the verification of financial supporting documents. So I asked my administration to ask for the ASBL's financial file. My administration will still be responsible for recovering part or all of the subsidy granted to ASBL We love Brussels in the event of irregularities identified during the investigation, provided these irregularities confirm that the subsidy was not used for the purposes for which it was granted. The question of providing the documents cannot be addressed, Mrs Daems, given, among other things, the ongoing judicial investigation into the misuse of subsidies by the non-profit association and its related non-profit organisations. That judicial investigation could be compromised by making those documents public, but I will, of course, follow the investigation and we will consider the necessary actions at the appropriate time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic442x.u71	Madam Minister, I agree that young people are important and that we should not leave them in the cold, but it is precisely for this reason that we now need to examine why the money did not go well and put existing civil society in second place. I also regret that you do not want to give democratically elected representatives access to the grant files and the audit reports. That transparency is now really necessary. We will put in written questions about this and contact your cabinet, because we really want to look at those documents. In Antwerp, only a letter from Mrs El Kaouakibi to Mayor De Wever was needed to suddenly increase those grants for the renovation of the Urban Center by more than 1 million euros. In the Antwerp district we already asked for a hearing in 2017 on the use of the funds for Let's Go Urban, but that remained without result. In Brussels, the municipality of Molenbeek refused to participate in the project because of a lack of participation. There were big businessmen involved, so it must be okay, the reasoning of Antwerp's mayor De Wever was. So there is indeed an un-know-it-all problem and only transparency can help us now. We will certainly continue to discuss this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic442x.u72	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. You are right to say that it is first and foremost young people who need attention. At the time, I had visited the Let's Go Urban project in Borgerhout. Having expressed criticism of how this project had arrived in Brussels and, above all, about subsidies, I had received an invitation to go and see the activities organized there. It was incredibly interesting to see these young people who managed to emancipate themselves through creativity, dance, sport, etc. We therefore agree that priority is here. On the other hand, I am referring to the procedure used at the time by Jan Jambon to grant the EUR 200 000 of subsidies. I am still surprised that there have been no more procedures. In fact, normally there must be a procedure in connection with public procurement. At least we have to compare the offers of the NSOs. In Brussels and, in particular, in Molenbeek, there is no shortage of non-profit organisations dealing with young people – and that is positive. I continue to believe that the procedure used at the time raises questions. But I will read your answer carefully. That said, the investigation you launched is a very good thing. It would be interesting for you to debrief the results to see how these subsidies were used. They are supposed to have been devoted to young people, in this case to the young people of Brussels and Molenbeek. However, according to the press, this has not been the case. We will therefore remain very attentive to this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic442x.u73	I'm shutting down work for today. We'll see each other soon.
