ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic446x.u1	Secretary of State, I am asking you about violence against women on the migration route but also in the Fedasil reception centres. These questions follow many of the meetings I have made and the testimonies I have gathered from women and organizations, sometimes Fedasil's partners. I will send you a few recommendations and an outline of the interviews that I may have had. According to these testimonies, a significant number of people are exposed to violence because of their gender, as a result of a lack of non-mixed private space for women. Women are sometimes victims of sexual assault or abuse, which can go as far as rape. There is a form of impotence, ignorance or even denial of the entities responsible for organizing these places of reception. These conditions of reception are all the more difficult when most of these women arrived after a complicated migration route because of their gender. I am thinking in particular of the exploitation and violence they suffer during their migratory journey. The reception standards in Fedasil centres are governed by the minimum standards transposed in the Act of 12 January 2007. However, these reception standards have not been subject to re-evaluation. Moreover, their control seems very minimal. It also turns out that too few social and psychological permanences are available to meet the needs of women housed in the centres. When permanence takes place, the husband's opposition or the social control of the community of belonging may prevent women from participating and expressing themselves freely. Mr Secretary of State, how is compliance with minimum standards ensured by the Fedasil Centres and its partners? Are you considering procedures for their evaluation? Do you think that there are enough spaces reserved exclusively for women in the centres, in which they can feel safe? Is there sufficient attention to ensure that the sanitary facilities and rooms reserved for women are accessible to them in a secure manner? What psycho-medical supports are available to women in the centres? Mr President, I come to my second question. Mr Secretary of State, I was talking about sexual violence among the violence against women. It turns out that women who dare to testify to their aggression are not sufficiently protected. They are sometimes even threatened by their networks and communities. There are also farms inside, but also outside the centres. Some individuals outside the centres would benefit from the vulnerability and isolation of these women by offering them shelter at home, a legal union at the key to facilitate the obtaining of papers. It's after hell for these women who are going to be subjected to insidious forms of trafficking. Isolated in a household, they may again be exposed to various forms of violence. It is also up to me, even if my witnesses want to remain anonymous, that accusations of prostitution around the centres are often made by individuals and organizations. All these issues, whether prostitution or violence against women, bring the question of women's autonomy throughout the asylum process, and also the question of the financial empowerment of women. I know that for that, you have proposals. Mr Secretary of State, what areas of complaint are available to women victims of sexual violence in the centres? How are these women protected? At present, it is not possible to distinguish sexual violence from other incidents among the different types of incidents reported in the centres. If, for example, a person falls and gets hurt, it will be reported on the same list as sexual violence, which is much more serious. Are you considering making incident reporting within Fedasil centres more detailed and transparent? How do Fedasil centres protect women from possible intimidation and sexual assault by people in the vicinity of the centres? Are the women in the shelter sensitized? What information do they receive? How can they report possible abuses? Lastly, were there any procedures to protect women who were potentially victims of sexual violence who disappeared from Fedasil centres?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic446x.u2	Mr Secretary of State, in the 2020 corona year, almost 900 violent incidents took place in the Belgian asylum centres, a lot more than the year before. That is clear from your answer to my written question No. 142 in connection with crime in the asylum centres. A figure that struck me is that 43 facts of sexual aggression have been established. I'd like to get more clarity about the kind of sexual aggression. Was it about rape, sexual assault, cross-border behavior? Were there any minors involved in the facts? Were there any aggravating circumstances? How were the acts of sexual aggression carried out followed by your services? A clear punishment policy can help tackle sexual aggression in the centers. Is a policy of punishment for sexual aggression applied in the centres? How many times did the police get notified? How often was a report made? How often did arrest and detention take place?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic446x.u3	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank both Members for their questions. It is a good thing that these questions are being asked, it indicates that we all, across party boundaries, find sexual aggression totally unacceptable and believe that action must be taken very strictly throughout society and thus also in asylum centres. Together with my services, I want to continue to make a strong commitment to this, firstly by ensuring that such facts are avoided, and secondly by strictly following up on the facts that have been committed. The minimum reception standards are a reference for all aspects related to the quality of reception at the level of accompaniment, infrastructure and security. Compliance with standards is assessed during quality audits. These standards require the existence of an offer of specific opening hours for women in common areas of relaxation or a specific space for women. Women's health facilities must be separated from men's health facilities and can be locked. Bedrooms must be separated for single men and women and may be closed from inside and outside. Fedasil ensures the protection of women in the centre and this is extremely important. In the centres, individualised social, medical and psychological support adapted to the specific needs is offered throughout the stay to all residents. A gender-based approach is planned. In terms of prevention and awareness, I would like to mention the R-Sense project in collaboration with Sensoa, which has as its theme values and norms in Belgium, sexuality and relationships. In this work, Sensoa also discusses standards and values in the field of sexual relations, and that is important. In addition, the Agency may conclude agreements with specialized institutions or associations or may refer to associations specializing in the protection and support of women victims of gender-based violence such as GAMS, Isala, The World According to Women and Merhaba. As far as complaints are concerned, the law provides for the possibility of an internal complaint concerning, for example, living conditions within the centre. At the reporting level, Fedasil records incidents by type. It is possible that it is mentioned in the incident file that the violence was specifically directed against a woman. However, no statistics are available on this subject. I checked with Fedasil to see if we can include this element in the reporting, which might be interesting to make the necessary changes. You also asked me about the 43 incidents of sexual aggression in 2020. In one case it was a threat, in nine cases it was a verbal incident and in three cases it was a non-verbal incident. In 24 cases, it was a question of hand-to-hand scans. In four cases it was sexual assault and in two cases it was exhibitionism or voyeurism. Its qualification is carried out by the reception centres themselves and is not a criminal classification of the facts. The unsub was adult in 39 cases and underage in nine cases. In 14 reports of incidents, police intervention was mentioned. Eight reports indicated that a report had been drawn up. In the shelters there is a follow-up of all incidents. Such follow-up means that the competent services are contacted or called in in the event of serious incidents. Moreover, after each incident, an appropriate disciplinary sanction is taken at the reception centre itself. That makes sense to me too. The staff of the reception centre will also assist victims in any further steps and offer them the necessary social-psychological care. In the event of criminal offences, it is of course up to the competent police and judicial authorities to give further follow-up to them. Finally, you're asking me if a procedure to protect potentially victimized women who disappear from Fedasil centers is in place. As soon as an adult voluntarily leaves the reception centre, he/she is no longer followed by the reception centre. But if a dangerous situation or a disturbing disappearance is to be reported to the police, the staff will do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic446x.u4	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your complete answers. I'm going back to some of the data you mentioned. First, you said something very important. Sexual violence is violence that takes place throughout society and not just in Fedasil centres. Our role as parliamentarians in this committee is, of course, to deal with asylum and migration issues. But the problem is wider. On compliance with standards, I suggest that they be reviewed. They have been established for 13 years. Meanwhile, many associations, including feminists, have worked to develop some best practices in the protection of women. In some centres, sanitary facilities do not have women's opening hours. Toilet closures are not effective. For having done a great deal of work on this subject, I can say that there are real problems. You talked about conventions with a series of associations: GAMS, Merhaba and others. In fact, it is precisely these associations that denounce the lack of resources. Even if it wasn't your responsibility, in recent years, projects have stopped. I think we need to be able to meet them around this issue, to establish perhaps more systematic and structural conventions with Fedasil. The issue of filing a complaint is very complicated. I don't have a solution myself. Sometimes there is pressure in the centres, community pressure, difficulty in space. I'll believe it, but I think it's also a job that needs to be done. I allow myself to be a little longer in my reply because I had two questions. For reporting, thank you very much for this good news. It must be possible to specify when sexual violence is involved, whatever it may be. In conclusion, my analyses have shown that the situation is very different from one centre to another. There is no homogeneity between the centres. Sometimes it is also good will, or depending on the abilities – I know that the staff is doing an incredible job, and doing what they can – from the various directors and directors of Fedasil, Red Cross or privatized centers – we are perhaps going to talk about it today. Since the way we do things is very different, it would really be worth working on the generalisation of good practice. It is not only about the vulnerability of women, but also about migrant women. So we can talk about double vulnerability. The work is complicated, but I am very concerned about the cases of exploitation and prostitution that are brought to my attention. Doing a real listening job, perhaps with audits, is necessary on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic446x.u5	Thank you for your answers. Based on your answers, you do not seem to have a clear and efficient policy of protecting the victims of sexual aggression in the asylum centres. Every time it comes to the protection of victims, I regret to say that they remain in the cold. You spend a lot of time giving interviews that aren't about content but bring fake news with which you try to silence the opposition. You should work harder on a policy of punishment for cases of sexual and other aggression in the asylum centres. In addition, you would be more committed to a humane asylum policy based on the Australian model in order to protect as many people as possible. There's a lot of work to be done, Mr Secretary of State. I hope you will take our advice to heart and get on with it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic446x.u6	Secretary of State, rest assured, I did not imply, in my questions, that sexual violence in the Fedasil centres had begun with your mandate. Your predecessors have not especially improved the situation which, however, already existed. I will now ask you about the inclusion of gender violence not in the Fedasil centres but in the asylum procedure in general. We have already talked about violence against women, but I wonder about the conditions of the interview during asylum procedures. These conditions do not always allow women to give themselves up and testify to their experiences. Why? Because very often a translator is used, which unfortunately for some languages is not available. Husbands or children are sometimes asked to translate the stories of these women, who are therefore unable to enjoy some protection in view of their sometimes violent journeys. They dare not express it because talking to their child about sexual violence, rapes in Libya or in a refugee camp in Greece or Hungary, is very complicated and raises a number of questions. There are also significant gaps in the training of staff working at all stages of the reception procedure. I'm not criticizing the agents. I'm just saying that the issue of sexual violence is a complex one and that modules or other things can be put in place. I am also told that there is a lack of budget dedicated to these trainings. Mr Secretary of State, what is the procedure developed by the competent bodies during the talks? Is there a specific maintenance device for women? Do you intend to strengthen the teams of interpreters to ensure professional care, in order to promote freedom of speech? Are staff members of the relevant bodies (Fedasil, the Office of Foreigners, CGRA) trained in the detection and care of persons who are victims of gender-based violence? Are Fedasil staff trained in gender issues in hospitality? Do you confirm that budgets are lacking to make these trainings systematic? Are you considering strengthening cooperation and collaboration on the ground between different organizations and centres? Do you consider it necessary to strengthen the support of the directors of centres in order to make them aware of gender-specific issues? Finally, do you intend to take initiatives to ensure a strengthened and consistent quality of reception of all the centres run or funded by Fedasil? I've been talking about it before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic446x.u7	Mr President, Mr Moutquin, thank you for your question. Interviews under the asylum procedure, whether with the Foreign Office or the CGRA, are always individual. It is therefore absolutely not correct to say that an audition at the CGRA takes place in the presence of the partner or children. At the beginning of the procedure, there is also a screening of special procedural needs or vulnerabilities. This can also be seen by CGRA at a later stage. In case of special procedural needs, special measures may be taken, such as the appointment of a female interpreter or a female protection officer. In the processing of asylum applications, the CGRA will take gender-based violence into account. In case of a domestic violence index, special measures will be taken to prevent the partner from becoming aware of the other partner's statements. With regard to the training and awareness-raising of the staff of the asylum authorities, I can tell you that the Office of Foreigners has a unit specializing in the hearing of vulnerable persons. CMRA protection officers receive comprehensive training as well as ongoing training. In reception centres, new employees are made aware of gender issues through e-learning. With regard to interpretation by other residents or family members, Fedasil has a clear policy on multilingual communication. Other residents can only be used as language support in contexts where non-sensitive practical information must be provided, especially when the context of the conversation is clearly defined. For conversations that are rather sensitive, the directive is clear: a social interpreter or an intercultural mediator must be sought. Fedasil has already funded various initiatives dealing with gender issues in recent years. Funding comes mainly from project funding. As I have already announced, collaboration with GAMS will be made structural. That is, in my opinion, an important element. Each year around €160,000 will be spent on awareness-raising and training in reception centres. In terms of policy, Fedasil is constantly trying to improve reception in order to make it as suitable as possible for certain target groups. With this in mind, Fedasil will participate in the future in the interdepartmental coordination group on gender mainstreaming and Fedasil also subscribes to successive national action plans to combat all forms of gender-based violence.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic446x.u8	Mr Secretary of State, thank you. I think it's very interesting to know that a gender mainstreaming is going to be set up at the level of Fedasil and that budgets are being released. But it is true that I received testimonies from women who wanted to express that they had been subjected to violence and, unfortunately, a child was asked to translate. That is not why it is a generality. That's not my point at all. But unfortunately, perhaps because of lack of time or resources, this can happen. I think, on the other hand, there are two interesting things that you have put in place. First, you sent a letter to the municipalities in relation to the ILA centres. I think this is really an interesting lead: hypercentres, large structures are not conducive to dealing with vulnerable audiences. I think there's really a job to do at that level. Secondly, women's independence. You mentioned the idea of being able to provide training or start-up. I think that's really what we need to look at.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic446x.u9	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, the issue of the undocumented is complex, in any case politically. On the other hand, while the subject skates a little at the political level, the reality is there for undocumented people. I'm asking you about undocumented sex workers, who have been in a dramatic situation since the beginning of the pandemic. Indeed, these women, often exploited by a network of trafficking in human beings, are all the more vulnerable as the places usually offer them relative protection, or rather relative protection, are now closed. Their living and working conditions have deteriorated sharply as a result of the forced precariousness in which they were plunged as a result of containment measures, as they no longer have income. Some have no choice but to continue working in absolute hiding and in difficult circumstances. Mr Secretary of State, is a right of residence as a victim of trafficking commonly granted to women migrant sex workers? What protection can these women enjoy? Are you considering developing an action plan to provide a gateway to insecurity for these undocumented sex workers?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic446x.u10	Mr President, Mr Moutquin, thank you for your question, which is indeed a delicate question. It concerns a rather fragile audience, that is the least one can say. A residence permit for a victim of trafficking is provided for in the Aliens Act. It is carried out by the Aliens Office through one of the three specialized centres, Pag-Asa, Payoke and Sürya. During the reflection period, a temporary residence certificate is issued. It is a period of time for the victim to be able to recover and decide whether or not to make statements concerning the alleged perpetrators of trafficking or to prepare for a voluntary return to the country of origin, or other alternatives. This period of reflection is therefore important, precisely in order to have the time to rest and to make the right decision, with the right framework. Very often, this situation is extremely complex. From the moment the victim complains or makes statements against the alleged perpetrators of trafficking, a certificate of registration is issued. As soon as the provisional status of a victim of trafficking is granted, the victim may be placed in possession of a residence permit. Only the magistrate is competent to grant this status and, in order to ensure a multidisciplinary approach, he takes into account the views of other relevant partners, such as reception centres, the Aliens Office, the police and the Social Inspectorate. The victim's residence permit will be renewed as long as the conditions relating to the victim's status are met until the court renders its judgement. In 2019 and 2020, a total of 78 applications for residence were submitted on the basis of sexual exploitation. These are 6 men and 72 women, three of whom are accompanied by minors. Most of the people were nationals of Niger. In conclusion, there is a residence procedure for victims of trafficking. The condition of victim collaboration is an essential element in the fight against trafficking.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic446x.u11	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for this very interesting answer. It contains a lot of data that I didn't know. As a result, there is an urgent need to build on grass-roots associations that work in particular with these public, undocumented sex workers, because I think many of them are not aware of the possibilities they have. It's always very complicated. We know that there is a rotation in the arrival of these people who sometimes come from distant countries. And then, we will have to work with the Regions on the issue of the current pandemic situation and the fact that they have no income. While some of the bars recognized in the Horeca were able to receive help, sex workers who were often illegally engaged in the same bars did not perceive anything. There is an urgent need to work on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic446x.u12	Mr President, I refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic446x.u13	Mrs. Van Camp, there's a technical problem. The application for the questions does not work properly, so one cannot refer to the question submitted in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic446x.u14	Mr President, is a summary enough?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic446x.u15	A summary is enough. Otherwise, your question cannot be included in the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic446x.u16	Minister, I would like to return to your statement on transmigration. You said that if the United Kingdom wants to send migrants back to our country if it can be shown that they come from here, you would not allow it. My question is what will happen to these transmigrants? Is the United Kingdom expected to return the migrants to their country of origin? Exactly how many people are involved? Have there been such requests from the United Kingdom? Were they systematically refused? What numbers are we talking about? Finally, I would like to see a state of play on cooperation with the United Kingdom on transmigration.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic446x.u17	Mrs Van Camp, since the Brexit, the Dublin Regulation is no longer valid between the United Kingdom and Belgium. The new British immigration plan provides that an asylum application may be declared inadmissible if the applicant has already been recognised as a refugee elsewhere, applied for asylum or reasonably applied for asylum in a safe third country. However, it is not the case that, if the United Kingdom refuses to apply for asylum on this ground, this entails an obligation for that country to take the person concerned back. The United Kingdom will have to take steps to return the person concerned to the country considered safe. A disposal in this context can therefore only be carried out on the basis of an agreement with that country. Belgium has not yet received a request for withdrawal in the context of the'safe third country' qualification. As you know, no one can be sent back to the country of origin when there is a real risk of a serious human rights violation there. The United Kingdom is bound by the international non-refoulement principle enshrined, inter alia, in Article 3 of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. If a removal to a safe third country is not possible but the person concerned is entitled to asylum, the new plans provide for temporary protection in the United Kingdom for a maximum period of 30 months, which is however renewable. It is not clear how many migrants arrive in the UK as not all migrants are found on arrival. I can refer you to Myria, who has collected some interesting figures on transmigration on his website. Practical cooperation with the United Kingdom, particularly in the port of Zeebrugge, is proceeding very well. We are also very satisfied with the operational support provided. My services have recently had discussions with the British on prevention campaigns with truck drivers as their target group. I would also refer you to Minister Verlinden for the follow-up of police cooperation with the United Kingdom.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic446x.u18	Mr President, the answer is clear, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic446x.u19	Mr President, given the number of interesting questions today, as is always the case, I refer to my question as it was tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic446x.u20	Mr Rigot, I am sorry to have to tell you that, for technical reasons, it is not possible for you to refer to your written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic446x.u21	Mr President, I shall therefore try to do so as soon as possible. Secretary of State, Fedasil wishes to develop and operate its buffer reception network. You have also sent a letter to the CPAS in this direction by asking Fedasil to extend the buffer capacity in the network, mainly in the collective reception structures. Mr Secretary of State, what is this buffer capacity? How many buffer places are you talking about? Where are the buildings of the buffer places in the collective planned? How much is the budget of the buffer places in the collective? How long will these places be activated? Indeed, buffer places are important from the moment they can be mobilised. Who will manage these buffer places: Fedasil or private or public partners? We will certainly have an opportunity to talk about this issue earlier. Buffering is not a new mechanism. It has already been implemented by the previous Secretary of State. The reduction of buffer places in the collective had, among other things, caused difficulties in receiving all applicants for international protection because of a lack of places. The Court of Auditors' 2017 report already recommended an analysis of cost-effectiveness in the various centres, so as to take into account the objective and well-known criteria for possible reductions in collective reception capacity. Since then, has the requisites been done? Have you established these criteria? Are they known to all partners? Are they the basis of the next reflections for the creation of these buffer places, the opening and closing of places?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic446x.u22	Mr President, Mr Rigot, first of all let me say that today I retain the will of all parliamentarians to refer to the written text of their question. I therefore know that this may also be the case in the future. Having said that, Mr Rigot, your question is important. Indeed, the capacity of buffer places is important. It is indeed a matter of trying to have a much more structural policy, much more thoughtful about our reception centres, rather than having a policy in which we had to try to find, at the last minute, a solution which was often not the best.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic446x.u23	The Agency currently has 1,503 buffer places. These buffer places are spread over several sites, including Saint-Nicolas, Verviers and Petit-Château. The activation period differs from site to site and has been determined in the host partner buffer agreement by maximum periods under which the financial arrangements have also been determined. Inactive buffers are managed by Fedasil, the Red Cross/Rode-Cruis. In case of deactivation, consideration shall be given to different parameters such as the quality of reception, cost-effectiveness or geographical balance, which is also important. By investing in sufficient buffers, we can create the necessary stability in the host network. This will allow us to focus on local hosting initiatives. These local reception initiatives are important for a variety of reasons. Because they are rooted in the community and local structures, local reception initiatives are an appropriate place to integrate people who have received or are most likely to be receiving a residence permit into our society. Another advantage is that local reception initiatives are cheaper than places in a collective reception centre. From a budgetary point of view, it is also wise to focus on these initiatives. Finally, local reception initiatives allow for better distribution within the territory and have less impact on the neighbourhood and the community. It should also be borne in mind that these buffer places are important: when before they were activated, deactivated, reactivated centres, each time they caused a certain cost for the taxpayer, for all of us. Because we are not going to activate and deactivate but we have these buffer places, somewhere, it is a job that will also have an impact on the budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic446x.u24	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. I have not heard the answer regarding the future objective criteria on the opening and closing policy. But for the rest, I obviously agree with you about the importance of these local reception initiatives. It is also important to keep them in their role, as you mentioned, of integration, of the next phase, so as not to create negative effects, but also to leave them accessible to the most vulnerable audiences, and certainly to maintain the reception model as it was put in place at the time. I'm drawing your attention perhaps just to another point, in terms of abilities. You mentioned that the closures and reopenings of places have an economic impact on the citizen, since they generate enormous costs. They also have important social consequences on staff who find themselves in fixed-term contracts, with unfortunately the loss of experience, the loss of quality because the places are closed too quickly. Let us therefore be careful, for in order to mobilize the troops, it is also necessary for these troops to have confidence in their employer and the certainty that they do not have precarious contracts which can end overnight. It's important.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic446x.u25	I would add that the activation criteria are quality of reception, cost-effectiveness and geographical balance.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic446x.u26	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic446x.u27	Mr Secretary of State, at our sitting on 9 March, I drew your attention to several subjects to be dealt with at the Justice and Home Affairs Summit on 11 March. Among these, I mentioned in particular the use of visas as a tool for negotiating readmission agreements, rescues at sea, the situation within the Frontex agency – suspected of covering human rights violations – or the continuation of relocation and resettlement programmes. These are obviously important elements in the development of our own asylum and migration policy. Mr Secretary of State, can you provide an update on the discussions that took place at this summit? What positions were defended by Belgium? What are the future time horizons for discussions on issues related to the search for a coherent European policy, which we hope our country is committed to not limiting itself to a policy of closure, of a fortress Europe which has been inefficient for many years now?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic446x.u28	Mr Rigot, I will provide you with a report on the meeting of the JHA Council on 12 March in which I attended. As far as my powers are concerned, the Ministers first received a brief overview of migration flows to the European Union by the Presidency. The Commission expressed its satisfaction with the progress made in the legislative discussions and a forthcoming Council will be held in June. In a first discussion, the Commission presented its communication on return and readmission. Member States have given broad support to the principle of using the lever of visa policy against third countries that do not sufficiently cooperate with the European Union in the return and readmission of irregular migrants. In my speech, I agreed with Belgium to mandate the Presidency to draw up a list of limited third countries with which the Commission is authorised to start a constructive diplomatic discussion. I have also asked to be kept informed of the progress made. The Commission has expressed its readiness to propose measures against these countries this summer if diplomatic efforts are not satisfactory. Finally, I stressed the need to make progress on the internal dimension of the Pact and thanked the Commission for organising a simulation exercise as requested by Belgium. I have already mentioned this simulation several times. You might feel like it's a technical element, but it's not. This is really an element with which we can move forward in discussions at European level where this ideological debate is not moving forward at all. Having a debate on the basis of a simulation will make it possible to know what the figures really are and what the impact is to move in the right direction. The Commission's first step towards a diplomatic and constructive approach, its attempt to establish good relations with the countries of origin, is a good thing. This is a positive step forward. I hope this will succeed. If this does not succeed, it is important to use the levers that we have at European level. In a second discussion, Ministers discussed the strengthening of cooperation between the European Union and North Africa. We need a comprehensive commitment from the European Union, good coordination and a narrative consistent with the Pact to send the same message to the partners in the various dialogues at bilateral, regional or European level. All Member States that have expressed their support for the initiative and are in favour of geographical scope. The discussion continued at the Jumbo Council on Monday, 15 March, where I supported, on behalf of Minister Wilmès and on my behalf, the Commission's proposals for the development and deepening of global partnerships that take account of all relations with partner countries. These partnerships are balanced and cover the different aspects of migration and not just the issue of return and readmission, however important it may be. They are based on trust and reciprocity and take into account both the interests of the European Union, the partner countries and the migrants themselves. The Council did not address the issue of rescues at sea, the Frontex agency, the framework for screening policies and the future of the Dublin process.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic446x.u29	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for these detailed answers. They will be analysed in depth and we will come back to you in the next few weeks to see how important these issues are at Belgian level but certainly at European level.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic446x.u30	Mr President, this will be a very short question. In the face of a very alarming situation, i.e. the more than inappropriate behaviour of the Greek Coast Guard, which would be the cause of the death of several migrants in the Mediterranean, have you had any contact with your Greek counterpart on this issue? Is an investigation under way? Is a European reaction on the negotiating table on this issue? I thank you in advance for your answers, which I hope interesting as always.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic446x.u31	Mr Secretary of State, last month, 11.11.11 together with Refugee Work Flanders published a report on the practice of the so-called pushbacks, the phenomenon of stopping and returning refugees at the borders of Europe, without having the opportunity to apply for asylum. You may be aware of that report. People do have the right to apply for asylum. This right is also enshrined in the European Convention on Human Rights. In addition, pushbacks are often accompanied by violence. The authors of the report also state that pushbacks have become a systematic and structural practice in European migration policy. This is reflected in the analyses they have made on the frequency of incidents and also on the number of Member States involved. The authors therefore call for an independent monitoring mechanism to monitor human rights at the external borders and call for a thorough reform of Frontex, which has been very controversial over the last few months because of its alleged involvement in pushbacks. It is very important for our group to put an end to these illegal practices by European Member States. On 11 or 12 March, you had a discussion with your European colleagues on the new European Pact on Migration and Asylum. As a result, I would like to ask you the following questions. Have you discussed the problem of pushbacks with your European colleagues and what position does Belgium take at the negotiating table? What is your position on a monitoring mechanism, as proposed in the report? Can Belgium support this proposal, and if so, what would you think it would look like so that it could work independently? What tone does Belgium take in the Management Board of Frontex? How do we use our seat there to carry out certain reforms? Why was Belgium not a member of the Management Board Working Group that investigated the pushbacks? Do you yourself believe in the independence of that investigation, given the membership of, among other things, Greece, which is of course involved in this dossier?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic446x.u32	Mr Rigot, I have taken note of the recent allegations against the Greek Coast Guard, including the accusations of Turkey. I didn't have any contact with my counterpart. In accordance with the Treaty of the European Union, the Commission may initiate infringement proceedings against a Member State which does not implement Union law. The case is also being followed up in the LIBE Commission of the European Parliament. Mrs Platteau, at the Council meeting on 12 March, the issue of drift-backs at sea was not on the agenda. The position of Belgium has always been so fundamental in this matter and during my term of office. International law, including Article 3 of the ECHR, must be respected. The coalition agreement also states that the European institutions and agencies must respect fundamental rights. Respect for international and European law was, moreover, the first part of the eight pillars of my policy statement. In that respect, I cannot be clear enough. The monitoring of human rights currently takes place within Frontex in two ways: through a consultative forum, in which international organisations and NGOs are also represented, and through the Frontex Human Rights Officer's Office. For that last position we are in the final phase of the new recruitment. In addition, Frontex and the EU Fundamental Rights Agency reached agreement on the deployment of 40 fundamental rights monitors in June 2020. These are positive signals and I share the view that these people should be able to carry out their supervisory tasks independently. The Frontex Management Board is composed of the heads of the border authorities of the Member States and representatives of the European Commission. Belgium is represented by the federal police, under the authority of my colleague, Minister Verlinden. Given the importance for my areas of competence, there is, of course, close cooperation with its policy cell in the direction of our Frontex representatives. However, it is important to bear in mind the role of that body, in particular the exercise of budgetary and substantive control. The Management Board is not competent to carry out reforms in the structure of Frontex, which is a mandate of the European legislature. Within the Management Board, solutions are sought in a peer-reviewed way, including in the working group that examined the pushbacks. A cross-section of the Member States was represented. The working party is not a criminal tribunal. It is therefore logical that the countries most concerned, such as Greece, should also be involved. After consideration, it was considered that our interests were sufficiently represented by other Member States with our profile and our principled attitude towards human rights protection. Our country has been properly briefed on the work of the working group. The working group has also made a number of recommendations, which I fully endorse, concerning the improvement of the reporting mechanism, the systematic reporting itself, clear rules on the follow-up of incidents and the absolute priority of the recruitment of these 40 fundamental rights monitors, which should lead this in the right direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic446x.u33	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. I have already asked you several times about Frontex's behaviour in particular. As you know, for my group, the principle of respect for international standards is no less important at the borders of Europe than in Belgium. We must be, at this level, absolutely firm. Human rights must in all cases be fully respected, always and everywhere, even outside our territory. There is a need to pay real attention to compliance with Article 3. Non-refoulement and respect for the right to apply are also key issues. In our view, Belgium must use all the levers available to it at all levels to ensure this, including within the board of Frontex. That is what we expect from you and Belgium, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic446x.u34	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I found it very interesting to hear that there is also work on human rights within Frontex by recruiting a human rights officer. You have also provided insight into the functioning of the Management Board Working Group, which makes us know what to expect from it. I am very pleased to hear that the Secretary of State takes into account the protection of human rights and that Belgium will continue to defend them at international and European level.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic446x.u35	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, according to the figures published, the rate of recognition of asylum seekers from El Salvador has fallen drastically in recent months. It rose from close to 100% in 2017 to only 9% in 2020. The statistics are similar for Venezuela. While it is true that the CGRA makes its decisions in a completely independent manner, the analyses on which the Office relies to render its opinions are not exempt from criticism and criticism. It is particularly surprising to see a fall in countries, while no improvement in the political, humanitarian and security situation or in the protection of the rights of political opponents is observed by the various human rights NGOs. Mr Secretary of State, do you confirm this drop in the recognition rate for nationals of Venezuela and El Salvador? How do you think such a change of attitude can be explained? How can we ensure that no attempt at political influence exists to adapt the analyses of the Cedoca to the statistics of asylum applications from a particular country?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic446x.u36	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Moutquin, as you yourself recall in your question, the assessment of applications for international protection falls within the competence of the CGRA at first instance and the CEC in the event of an appeal. These are two independent bodies. I'm glad that's the case. It's important. It is also important to recall that the possibility of appeal to the CEC and possibly also to the Conseil d'Etat in administrative cassation constitutes a check on the quality of the processing of cases by the CGRA. As in the case of persons from other countries, applications from Venezuelan or Salvadoran nationals are assessed on a case-by-case basis. If there is a need for protection, refugee status or subsidiary protection status shall be granted. If there is no need for protection, a refusal decision is made. Each case is examined individually and, even if the situation is problematic in a certain country of origin, the rate of recognition may vary. It depends on the individual file. However, the situation is not such that every person from El Salvador needs international protection. The evolution of the recognition rate for Venezuela is as follows. [[In 2018, it was 57 per cent, in 2019, 27 per cent, in 2020, 22 per cent and in 2021, 15.6 per cent.]] To give you an idea, at European level, the average recognition rate was 3% in 2020. The evolution of the recognition rate for El Salvador is as follows. [[In 2018, it was 97%, in 2019, 76%, in 2020 it rose to 8% and to 6.3% in 2021.]] At European level, the average recognition rate was 20% in 2020. I would like to point out that it is always complicated, if not dangerous, to make a comparison between years and countries, knowing that, on the basis of the number of cases to be dealt with, and on the basis of the size of certain families, and therefore of the cases to be dealt with, one can move from one figure or a high percentage to a very small percentage, and the same in the other direction. The same applies to the comparison between Belgium and the other Member States of the European Union. We can see that in Europe, for example for Venezuela, we have an average recognition rate of 3%, but it is not because in Belgium we are at 15.6% now that we are dealing with these issues differently, in a worse or better way. It's exactly the same for El Salvador. Above all, we must ensure that this can be dealt with independently. I do. CGRA and the CEC process these files in a good way. These independent bodies must be given the opportunity to do their work independently.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic446x.u37	Mr Secretary of State, without a moment of reading between us in committee, I am reading an exciting book that explains how the recognition of refugee status, or the distinction with economic migrants, is above all a political construct. We know that for several decades, within our continent, we have sometimes used this tool as a diplomatic weapon, sometimes as a deterrent. It is interesting to see in this respect the evolution in France with regard to Spain at the time of Franco, and that of the links, which have changed. I do not accuse the CGRA at all of being in there at the moment, but these definitions are still quite complex. I claim the independence of the CGRA and thank you for guaranteeing it. We know that sometimes visas have been granted in a less objective way, to say so, and we do not wish to do so. That said, there is a problem. Why doesn't Joe Biden, the president of the United States, get away with Salvadoran refugees? He explained that the situation on the ground was catastrophic. Gangs kill children day and night, in account settlements or sometimes free of charge. Why is the recognition rate rising from 100% to 6% in Belgium? While the figures are relative and will have to be deepened, CGRA believes that the situation on the ground has improved – for example for Gaza – while the situation on the ground is not improving. That raises questions. Although it is necessary to guarantee the independence of the CGRA, we must also be able to look at these rates of recognition, for El Salvador or elsewhere, which are calling for attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic446x.u38	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l 55016125C, 55016135C, 55016150C and 55016163C of Mrs Goethals have been converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic446x.u39	Mr Secretary of State, last year you announced that Belgium wants to show solidarity with the people in the Moria refugee camp, following the fire that broke out there. You were supposed to catch 150 people from the refugee camp after the fire on 8 September 2020. Even before the fire, the situation in Lesbos was poignant. The camp was unsafe, unhygienic and overcrowded. The situation in the new temporary camp appears to be even worse. There are currently about 7,000 people, including about 2,000 children. The camp does not meet acceptable humanitarian standards. The people are taken together. There are no showers and too few toilets. There's hardly any water. People get sick there. Kids get sick. It is an unacceptable situation. On top of that comes the corona crisis, which has made everything even more difficult and reduced the mobility of refugees even more. Access to the asylum procedure also remains very difficult, which is very problematic. I have already referred to this in a previous question. Moreover, it appears that the construction of a new camp is slowing down and that it will not be ready by September 2021, as envisaged. So the camp Moria has actually become a closed camp. The people who stay there suffer from terrible mental and physical health problems. The situation is absolutely unacceptable and an embarrassment for Europe. In the meantime, the negotiations on the new European Migration Pact, which should provide structural solutions, are very difficult. All indications indicate that no agreement will be reached in 2021 either. Ad hoc initiatives to show solidarity with the countries at the external borders are therefore still urgently needed. In our country we see some hopeful signals from a dozen cities and municipalities that are willing to show solidarity. These solidarity municipalities actually make it clear that there is support for reception at local level. These municipalities also ask Belgium to assume its responsibility in the forthcoming negotiations of the European Asylum and Migration Pact. According to these municipalities, Belgium must put human rights and European solidarity at the heart of this process and take a leading role. Mr Secretary of State, I have the following questions. Can you give me an update on the Belgian relocation of the 150 people from Moria? Have all these people arrived in Belgium in the meantime? Are you prepared to increase the number of people to be received from Greece after the ominous reports that the construction of the new camp is delayed and that the situation for the many refugees there has worsened? What is your position at the negotiating table with the other European countries on the situation at the external borders of Europe and, more specifically, on the situation at Lesbos?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic446x.u40	Mr President, Mrs Platteau, after the fire in Moria's camp at the beginning of September, I confirmed the commitment of my predecessor. We have also decided on the relocation of 150 people from Moria to Belgium. This was on top of the previous commitment to the relocation of 30 unaccompanied minors. In the meantime, these minors have all arrived in Belgium. The relocation process for the 150 people has so far been rather difficult. It is difficult to match the people on the islands with our selection criteria. For example, I want to relieve the pressure on the islands and not'relocate' people who have been staying on the mainland for years. I have also refused to accept people who have already been refused by other Member States because they are a threat to public order. They've already been on a list. In addition, the Greek authorities are heavily burdened by the different relocation operations to the Member States. A clear timeline for relocation has therefore been agreed with Belgium. We are currently awaiting confirmation from the Greek authorities themselves. There are currently 66 people subject to security screening. It's important that we get people to come over through relocation, but also that they undergo such a security screening. If it does not reveal any risks, I will give my agreement to the transfer of those persons. For the remaining 84 people we are waiting for new lists of proposals from the Greek authorities. This is still happening on the basis of our selection criteria, where safety is paramount and we are also ensuring that we do not bring people here who have been on the mainland for years. The problem concerns the islands which are under great pressure and which we must try to alleviate. I closely monitor the situation on those islands. Belgium is represented in the European Commission's Moria Task Force, which co-ordinates the construction of new reception facilities on the ground. Here too, Fedasil has already sent an architect on site via EASO to share his expertise. At the moment, I think it is important to bring the 150 asylum seekers to Belgium and to play our role in the task force and through EASO. In this way, we can set an example to other Member States. At the moment I do not plan to'relocate' an increase in the number of people. It is important to me that the action we are taking now is more than symbolic. I am concerned about saving the people who are in very difficult conditions there. But we have to do more. We need to provide structural solutions on the ground. As you know, I am in favour of a sustainable reform of European asylum and migration policy, with a strong internal and solidarity-based asylum system. This can only be achieved if there is effective control at the external borders. I therefore call for a standardised, short and effective screening of those who wish to enter the European Union without fulfilling the European entry conditions at the time they register at the external borders. That screening should ensure that those people can be escorted quickly to the next stage and the right procedure, much faster than is the case today. In turn, these procedures should be faster and more effective so that a distinction is made between those who are eligible for international protection and those who are not. Improved procedures and administrative flow should also reduce pressure at external borders, particularly in the camps. At the same time, I am contributing, among other things, through the Belgian efforts under the Moria Task Force, to improving the reception facility for those waiting for an administrative decision. In this way we try to have an impact on all possible areas there. We have to help structuralally. It is also important that we ensure proper reception in the field, including in other countries and thus also at the borders of Europe, particularly in Moria and in other parts of Greece. However, we are doing the necessary and hope to be able to go as quickly as possible. It is sometimes frustrating for me to note that either the European bureaucracy is disappointing or that, because of the selection criteria, where we will not lower the bar, sometimes it is difficult to get names on it very quickly. However, we are doing what is necessary. Hopefully in the future it can be much faster.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic446x.u41	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. It is positive news that the thirty unaccompanied minors have arrived in the meantime. However, if I have heard your answer correctly, it is a difficult process to bring these 150 people here. I hear you refer to red tape and to the fact that it is not very obvious to cooperate with the Greek authorities. However, administrative burdens should not be a reason not to meet the commitments, even if, as you say, that is very frustrating. We have to see whether we can speed things up. Of course, I welcome what you have said about involvement in the Moreia Task Force. There is the fact that Fedasil also provides logistical support. That's what we have to do. If the camp cannot be rebuilt, we need to see what our own federal institutions can do to support the people on the ground as much logistics as possible. In anticipation of a structural solution, to which you also refer, we must not look away and we must do our utmost to help the people who live there in very difficult circumstances as quickly as possible, especially because we have committed ourselves. The current situation is really unacceptable to Europe. It's almost concentration camps. We can't look away. We know that there is a situation there. We really need to take action.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic446x.u42	President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 55016270C, 55016271C, 55016275C, 55016272C, 55016273C and 55016274C of Mrs Van Camp are postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic446x.u43	Mr. Secretary of State, the imam of the Yesil Camiimosque, the so-called Green Mosque in Houthalen-Helchteren, which is no stranger to you, has been in the news several times over the last few months. Unfortunately, not always in a positive way. For example, on his Facebook page he shared a message that explains in a discriminatory way why homosexuality is forbidden in Islam and that homosexuality brings disease and decay. Flemish minister Somers rightly said that he wanted to withdraw the recognition of that mosque. Unfortunately, that has not yet been done, despite some harsh statements in the press. No action was taken on the opinions requested. The county says it's not competent. The Minister for Justice, whom I questioned the day before yesterday, said that he had not given any advice on this matter because of a number of bureaucratic difficulties. What a disappointment that is! Mr Secretary of State, you were of the opinion that there is no place for such hateful people in our society and you decided not to renew the Turkish Imam's residence permit. In addition, you announced that this imam would be ordered to leave the territory. Mr. Secretary of State, was the order to leave the territory also effectively meant to the Turkish imam? When did that happen? Has the Turkish imam now complied with that order and has he effectively left our territory? Should that not be the case, what means are being used to detect and force that person to leave our territory under duress? When do you expect to realize that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic446x.u44	Ms. Ponthier, the order to leave the territory was served at the beginning of February. We have therefore immediately launched a SEFOR procedure for the person concerned and have led him intensively to departure. Meanwhile, after several conversations, the man responded to the order and left. He is therefore no longer on Belgian territory. That shows once again that it does pay off to bet on intensive coaching. We will make much more efforts in the coming years. It will not always work, everywhere and with everyone, but in this case it has succeeded. In this dossier we are convinced that the perseverance of our services and the good and respectful cooperation with the Turkish embassy have provided a quick solution. Finally, I would like to stress once again what I have always stressed, namely that anyone who does not respect the LGBTQI rights has no place in our society. I have made this a priority in my policy paper and I will continue to ensure that that red line is not exceeded. Anyone who sows hatred doesn't belong here. That is the line we consistently follow, always and everywhere. Yeah, so that means we're giving an order to leave the territory. It is customary for Members to ask questions and for me to answer them. I keep trying my best and trying to do it as best I can. However, I would like to ask a question back. I happened to read the newspaper of Flemish Interest last month. In it is actually an article about me, entitled "Sammy Mahdi distributes fake news." It was about the imam. It was said, "Mr. Mahdi has given an order to leave the territory, but that man has not left, while Mahdi is insinuating that he has." It said in that article that the Flemish Interest considers it important to fight fake news. I like that. I think it's commendable that a party wants to fight fake news. You will always find a partner in me. But in the next issue of the newspaper, which I will probably also ask for, will I get a new place, so that we can continue to step up the fight against fake news and give the clear information that citizens are right to get? I am asking not only you, but every person who is working in committee here or in another committee and who has taken on a social commitment and communicated on the issue over the past few weeks and months and said that Mr Mahdi would not be allowed to leave the country. I assume that anyone who considers the fight against fake news so important and believes that citizens have the right to get all the information, especially about people who sow hatred and who talk about LGBTQI collectively in an unacceptable way in our society corrects what was said. I look forward to your answer. In any case, I am very pleased with the cooperation with all the partners in the story. I will never promise that it will always be as simple everywhere. It is a very difficult task to work on return. This doesn't always run smoothly, but one must try to do his utmost. I do that every day. I am very pleased that we can speak of a positive final note in this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic446x.u45	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your satisfactory reply. As it should be, everyone has a right to answer. You, of course, also have that as Secretary of State, and you have taken that opportunity here. I thank you for making things right. It's pretty simple. A man with an exemplary role such as the Turkish imam, who has once been given the right to work in our country and makes such criminal statements, must therefore bear the consequences and be held responsible for his statements. Your strength has certainly rewarded in this. I also understand that you cannot achieve this in every situation. I only hope that you will also consult the Minister of Justice, who has so far focused on bureaucratic problems in order to issue an opinion on the recognition of the mosque. I know that you are not competent in this matter, but everyone puts out the hot potato in front of them: Bart Somers, the province, the municipal administration and also the Minister of Justice, your direct colleague. I hope that you will also ask him to be strong in the handling of the dossier so that we can withdraw the recognition of the mosque, because there is no way of meeting the criteria for recognition.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic446x.u46	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, we see each other every once in a while on this dossier. My previous question dates back to the end of February. Then you said that you were confident that the owners of the Bilzen property, which is intended as a temporary asylum centre, would soon decide on its future. We have been a few months, so I have the following specific questions for you. First of all, has there been any contact since March between the property owners and your cabinet? If so, have we been able to tell you whether this property can still be made available to Fedasil or not? Secondly, has there been any contact between the owners and Fedasil since March? If so, does Fedasil still intend to have access to the property? If so, by when? Thirdly, are you aware that the owners are investigating possible alternatives to the destination of their property? Finally, has there been any contact since March between your cabinet and the city administration of Bilzen on this dossier?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic446x.u47	Mr President, Mr Raskin, asylum centres often take a while to deal with dossiers and see what can or cannot be done. People don't go there about a night of ice cream. Not that it should therefore take decades, but we do think it is important to take time for certain things, especially to avoid insufficient conversations with local government and owners when something is done. We stand for good cooperation between all levels and all partners to ensure that we have a reception network that is different, not just in terms of image, but also what has lived in the minds so far. Yeah, I've been in touch with the owner and the city council. Out of respect for those interlocutors, I remain discreet about the content of those conversations. As I have said, it is important for me to work well with both local authorities and possible partners. That's why we do it in all discretion, and with the greatest respect for each other. I am aware that the owners are investigating alternative destinations, which is their full right. On the basis of these talks, a decision will be made. At the moment, I cannot give a more concrete answer. That may be different in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic446x.u48	Mr Mahdi, your answer is concise and you have answered very few of my questions. I understand that there have been contacts between your cabinet and the owner and also the city administration, but that is all you want to say about it. I do not think such secrecy is wise because you also know that it is important to be transparent and to communicate with everyone in good time. I fear that, contrary to your words, your policy is ill in the same bed as it used to be. Not much has changed. Whether Fedasil has been in contact with the owners, you have not answered, and also about the time limit you remain very vague. I can only conclude that it was a painful dossier from day one: first Mrs De Block's bad choice, then the scandalous arson, then the fact that a lot of time has been taken, that there has been speculation by the owner, and that there have been contacts that we should not know about. That only leads to murderous uncertainty. You, the man who is competent, will not end it. I am very sorry about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic446x.u49	Mr Secretary of State, more than half of the 1,900 homeless people in Ghent are not of Belgian nationality, 57% of them are staying here illegally. That turned out to be after a census that was conducted locally. Instead of using the police to track down illegal immigrants, the Ghent city administration wants to provide additional shelter. In this context, the city of Ghent will buy up a hostel for no less than 1.2 million euros, representing 20 shelters. However, Article 77, §1 of Belgian asylum and immigration legislation criminalises the facilitation of irregular migrants. Fines and prison sentences are provided for such facts. Was this decision of the Ghent city council submitted to you? In other words, have you been informed in advance? In your opinion, is this not an illegal decision that is contrary to asylum and immigration law? Do you not think that this decision will rather create a suction effect to the city of Ghent and by extension to other cities? Can you take a policy of expulsion to heart, so that illegal immigrants are repatriated to their countries of origin and no longer have to wander the streets of our cities?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic446x.u50	Mr Secretary of State, you may not be surprised that my question on the same subject has a very different approach. My question concerns two projects, in Ghent and Antwerp, which focus specifically on homeless people without legal residence. The aim of these urban projects is, on the one hand, to provide shelter for this group of homeless people and, on the other hand, very important to be able to work on perspective guidance. This bed, bath, bread+ projects are therefore sometimes called BBB+ projects. They intend to discuss a possible return to the country of origin in a safe environment. In this context, the Antwerp ships quite rightly say: "Only with time, space and rest can we have a serious discussion about a possible return." The newspaper article published on this subject also included a reaction from yourself, in which you indicated that you know these projects and that you are aware of projects abroad, which have been successful by using them on that target group. The government agreement also states that you will develop a human return path with all relevant authorities for people in illegal residence, with a thorough guidance, support and with regular follow-up. Mr Secretary of State, will you provide funding from the federal government to support such urban pilot projects? Are you planning to launch BBB+ own projects at federal level? How do you see the cooperation between the federal institutions for which you are competent and the initiatives taken by cities and municipalities on a human return policy?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic446x.u51	Mr Depoortere, Mrs Platteau, first of all I would like to clarify that Article 77 of the Housing Act states that this is not a criminal offence if the aid is provided mainly for humanitarian reasons. This is a very important nuance in the law, which must ensure that solidarity remains possible. Both the Ghent and Antwerp initiatives have a clear humanitarian approach. It is also, for the sake of clarity, a local initiative. Both the Ghent city and the Antwerp city council do not have to ask my permission to do so and that has not happened. We are of course aware that both the city of Ghent and the city of Antwerp are working out a project with different partners to provide intensive assistance to people without legal residence in order to achieve a sustainable solution. This sustainable solution may consist of following existing residence procedures, if this is useful depending on the individual dossier. For example, it could be an asylum application or a right of residence because there is an address. It could also lead to a return to the country of origin. Some cities that are often confronted with the problems of people without legal residence are working out local initiatives to provide intensive guidance to them towards a sustainable solution. These are projects that have grown locally, because these problems are being faced in the field. The ultimate objective is to prevent illegal residence. We all agree in this House that we must fight against illegal residence together. The federal government supports this objective and it was also an important aspect of my policy paper. Our services are looking at how we can work with such local projects. Some local projects choose to provide care, in addition to intensive social and legal guidance. For the sake of clarity, my competence is not to provide shelter for people without legal residence, but we are looking at how we can support certain initiatives to prevent illegal residence. The aim is to connect in a first phase with existing projects in order to learn from them what works and what does not. The purpose of pilot projects is to experiment and see what works and what doesn't. In what way and with which partners we will work in a second phase depends on the evaluation of the first phase. I can't put a preliminaries on that right now. It is important that both the Foreign Affairs Department and Fedasil are given a role in these projects, but from the second line. This concerns support for the supervisors, training, clarification of certain procedures and case-by-case consultation. Local actors are the so-called first-line actors in direct contact with the target group. They know what lives locally and know the problems, so that they can best respond to existing problems and deal best with them. Supporting certain pilot projects is just one aspect of my policy towards people without legal residence. Such projects are limited in scope and cover only a very limited number of people. What is even more important is the package of measures that we are working on in the context of the policies that are being pursued and the fight against illegal residence. For this purpose, we use preventive measures to inform and follow up foreigners intensively from the lodging of a residence application and all the more so at the time when the negative decision is taken. That is the discussion we have had a few times. It shouldn't stop delivering a piece of paper. Certainly, then, the guidance needs to be even more intensive and there is a need for a policy of restraint. In this way we ensure that no false expectations are created among foreigners and that there is a better follow-up to the orders to leave the territory. So that's the order of magnitude we're talking about. It is good that these pilot projects at local level are given room to see what works and what doesn't, but know that we are also working in many other areas to get rid of devious residence, because that is the common struggle that we all have to fight.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic446x.u52	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for the answer. We must not confuse the difference between asylum seekers and illegal immigrants. In my view, and I think in your view, illegal immigrants are asylum seekers for whom the procedure has ended, but they refuse to leave our territory. If I understand correctly, the pilot project in Ghent is intended for a number of homeless people of foreign origin who are illegally staying on our territory. Our local department has filed a complaint with the local police. I think this is indeed a criminal matter. We shall see how they judge it. More important than the legal aspect is the political dimension. I insist that such pilot projects undermine the support of the population, which is not against all migration, but that the cities are increasingly overcrowded by illegal or otherwise foreigners. We must have the courage to look at this situation. If such a misplaced human reflex is displayed, if I may call it that, it only contributes to additional human suffering. I think that creates a suction effect. We must avoid that. You know my party's position, but I will repeat it again. First of all, actually track down the illegals. Secondly, catch them in recognised asylum centres. Finally, when their asylum procedure is over, return them to their countries of origin. Mr Secretary of State, to conclude positively, I would point out that the fight against illegal residence must be the battle of all of us. Too much is missing in the end today to call it a successful immigration model.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic446x.u53	Mrs Platteau, I suspect you have prepared a completely different reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic446x.u54	Mr President, I have indeed prepared a slightly different reply. Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I am pleased that you refer to Article 77 of the Housing Act, which states that aid for humanitarian reasons is not punishable. It is important to look at what works effectively in return policy. Therefore, it is good that you will make an evaluation of the pilot projects. I hope that we will then be able to look at the next stage where we can strengthen these projects and what support we can give them. It is also a good thing that, as you point out, in the second line, federal services Fedasil and the DVZ are fully cooperating in these urban projects and providing the right information about return. That is very important for a pressing policy. It is not an easy matter, but we fully agree with the approach you are proposing. Unlike Mr Depoostere van Vlaams Belang, we do not believe that such reception initiatives create some sort of suction effect. That is absolutely not the case. It is necessary, however, not to leave people in the cold, especially not in these corona times.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic446x.u55	Mr Secretary of State, I would like to ask you a follow-up question on the visa sanctions and the signal that Europe should be sending out. At the beginning of March, you advocated such sanctions for countries that refuse to take back their illegally staying nationals. Concrete countries were not mentioned on this occasion because of the so-called confidential aspect. However, an article in the German newspaper Die Welt showed that the European Commission had already handed over to the European Council in February a document systematically evaluating the cooperation of some 40 third countries on the return of their illegal nationals. Thirteen of those states received the worst assessment. It would cover Iraq, Iran, Libya, Senegal, Somalia, Mali, Gambia, Cameroon, Congo, Egypt, Eritrea, Ethiopia and Guinea-Bissau. It should be added that according to the same evaluation, however, most other African and Asian countries are only weak in their cooperation. For the 13 countries mentioned above, visa sanctions could be introduced from this summer onwards. However, the most consistent and comprehensive form of sanctions, in particular the suspension or quota of visas, would not be foreseen. In this context, I would have liked an answer to the following questions. Can you confirm the information that the Die Welt newspaper made public? What are the plans for the non-explicit countries that are weak in their cooperation? Will these countries also be faced with visa sanctions, or will everything remain the same? Was visa concessions already provided for certain countries that cooperate well, as you have also advocated? If so, which countries are they talking about? Finally, I have a question for our country that is certainly not insignificant. In the EU list of 13 countries that received the worst score, a country such as Morocco is missing, with which Belgium still has an important return relationship, if you can call it it. Cooperation with Morocco is not always smooth, to say the least, and the country was explicitly mentioned by you when you advocated the introduction of visa sanctions on 1 March. To what extent can we still count on any European initiative for a country such as Morocco, which you say you are waiting for action?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic446x.u56	Mr Van Langenhove, I may be wrong, but I think I remember you asking a few weeks ago in your initial question that I might not be able to communicate about the countries because it may be diplomatically sensitive. I then nodded in your direction. Unfortunately, I have to conclude that a German newspaper would have some information that I cannot say whether or not it is correct, but there are, of course, reasons for trying to check the information internally first and to take the right steps. I would therefore like to start by explaining what the European decision-making process is. Article 25a of the new Visa Code provides that the Commission is to draw up an annual report on readmission cooperation with a range of visa-free third countries. For example, a classification is drawn up on the basis of the degree of cooperation. In a first phase, we focus on countries that do not cooperate at all. This does not mean that all the other countries, which do not cooperate well, will not be dealt with. There are no automatic consequences linked to the report, but these discussions are conducted internally. Article 25a is the legal basis on which I made the proposals on visa measures to which you refer. In concrete terms, at the Council meeting of 12 March, I asked for consequences to be linked to poor return cooperation by certain countries in the form of visa levers. At the same meeting, the Council gave the Commission the mandate, in accordance with Article 25a, to enter into diplomatic talks with a selection of priority countries. I replied to Mr Rigot's question earlier, if I am not mistaken: we are initially trying to find a diplomatic solution. We do not do this with the intention of postponing visa sanctions, because on the basis of the outcome of these talks, the Commission can propose visa sanctions to the Council. The Commission has already said that Member States can expect such proposals by summer. It is also worth noting that the Commission is very ambitious in this area and does not want to wait too long. At the same time, I understand and support the Commission in its démarche to first reach an agreement by diplomatic means. If this is not possible, other measures must, of course, be taken. That was my proposal, and almost all the Member States have expressed a positive opinion on the matter. The Commission's evaluation report and the list of priority countries shall be confidential. This prevents me from giving you more details of the substance of the impact the European Union will have on the report. I can only tell you that the Commission wants to speed this up. Everyone will soon be told which countries we are talking about and what first steps we can take, hoping that the first step will be that we have been able to convince certain countries through these diplomatic channels of the need to work on their return. The Global Compact for Migration also refers to the importance for countries to take back their own nationals. I therefore assume that these countries know what is in it. The document may not be binding, but it indicates that each country has a responsibility in the context of migration and thus also in the context of the return of its own nationals.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic446x.u57	Mr Secretary of State, I note that you have little to say about the specific details of these countries, but you could reply in a hypothetical way. When we talk specifically about Morocco, without talking about Morocco. Under the assumption that there will be no initiative from the European Union, which you are supposed to be waiting for, will you then wait or will you take steps yourself? I will perhaps mention this in a follow-up question, without referring specifically to Morocco or without referring to a report by Die Welt. When we talk about this classification, you say that if a country does not fall under the worst category, that does not mean that we will not tackle those countries. Mr Secretary of State, on the other hand, does this mean that you will tackle it, or will it remain a bit delirious and do we have to wait and see? We hear diplomatic talks are starting. Of course it is better to talk first and act afterwards, but in this case we have talked long enough. I hope that the European Commission will stick to the deadline of next summer. I am sure we will ask a number of follow-up questions to see if they will be complied with. We shall do the same in the European Parliament. So, see you next time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic446x.u58	Debates of the European Parliament 55016419C by Mr Loones has been converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic446x.u59	Mr Secretary of State, I very much appreciate the fact that you are always physically present in Parliament. I'm trying to do that too, because that's how I find it easier to argue with each other than online, but other obligations have made it impossible for me to be physically present today. Mr Secretary of State, I have, of course, read your interview in De Zondag, as I read all your interviews. After all, it is the opposition's job to read what direction the government is going with its policy. As you know, that concerns me. You have put forward a number of points that I can support. I will question you later about the agreement with Actiris, which I believe is a good step forward. However, I do think that in your communication you emphasise the fact that you are doing everything you can to prevent the spread of fake news. For example, in the context of the relay, you also auction money for an online database of migration data. These are all important points, but it is also important for you to be sufficiently nuanced. When I read on Sunday, I was startled. I read from the article: "[sighs] What Theo Francken wants, simply cannot. And I'm being careful about expressing myself. (fel) The right to asylum runs counter to all human rights treaties. Do you know when they were written? Right after World War II to never see horror like the persecution of the Jews again. The international community agreed at that time that people on flights have at least the right to ask for protection. I support that principle. That does not equal effective asylum. I agree that an international protection mechanism is not just a futility and that it is a very cautious Westerner, as a democrat. I regret that you put words in my mouth. I never wanted to take the right to asylum. No proposal from me or from any of my party states that we want to take away the right to asylum. This is indeed contrary to the human rights conventions to which we have committed ourselves. You know that. What I do want to do is to take away the right of residence on European territory when travelling illegally to Europe, the European Union or the Schengen area. That's not the same thing, it's not even the same thing at all, it's something fundamentally different. I believe that those who flee Syria, pay people smugglers for it and illegally arrive on our territory, should not be rewarded with the right of residence in a country of choice, because that is almost always the point of de facto. At the same time, I believe that we cannot send those who need protection back to regimes that want to harm them, torture them, lock them in prisons or kill them. Let's make that very clear. I also regret that you will then start in the interview on Assad. You're insinuating that I'd like to send Syrians back. You don't say that literally, but that's what people understand. I find that regrettable. That's not a grown-up way to argue with each other. I regret that statement; you are spreading rumours, even though I do not have such desires at all, and I find that particularly regrettable. I wanted to talk to you about that. I did that online, but then I figured I'd ask a question about that anyway. Our proposal, the Australian model, it is your right not to be in favour of it, does not take away the right to asylum and does not send Syrians back to Assad. That is obviously wrong, so I would certainly ask you not to keep saying that. If not, you lose a lot of credibility, all the more so because you think the fight against fake news is a priority. What we do want to do is work effectively on another model, another paradigm, the Australian model, which works perfectly, and then of course a model 2.0 with more protection and rights, because of course not everything has been perfect in Australia. It has been very efficient. Nor has Australia deprived the right to asylum. Never. For the sake of clarity, I would like to stress this. The journalist asked whether the European model of asylum after illegal crossing does not encourage trafficking in human beings, to which you replied: why should that be? Of course, that's how people's smuggling works. That's the whole problem. You say you want to quickly screen asylum seekers entering the European Union illegally. Yeah, I've been hearing that for years, but that's very bad. Its proper and efficient organisation is a problem in southern European countries, which is very difficult. The differences in content are different. We will see in the coming months and years how far you will get with your European Migration Pact and what that will give in practice.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic446x.u60	Mr President, Mr Francken, I know that you have had a difficult time and wish you a good recovery, but I think you have already recovered. This is the one where that message was sent after all. I'll go into the element in the paper about Assad first. If you want to know the full interview or want to know where it comes from, we also had a discussion about Denmark's attitude towards Syrians. Yesterday it was possible to read in the media that Denmark decided to send back a number of Syrians. To send people back, we need cooperation with the country of origin. In this case, this means negotiating with Mr Assad. In this context, I have emphasised and clarified that countries like Denmark, which say they want to do so, are actually saying something that simply cannot be done. You note that it says "fell." We are both very active politicians, who like to engage in the debate. If I say "fell" in that setting, it could be behind any word. I am trying to make a point on which we agree, in particular that today's European asylum and migration policy is a bankrupt model. It has already proved bankrupt during the crisis we have known in 2015. The model you, your party and Flemish Interest stand for is also based on pushbacks from territorial waters. The prevailing lecture in international law is that those involved are in those waters. On the other hand, the model is based on an offshore treatment of the applications of those who nevertheless reach the territory. The persons concerned were initially placed in detention. I am talking about the Australian model, about how it happened in Australia. After international indignation, they became open centres, which are heavily overcrowded and where there is no guidance. That is the state of play. Pushbacks are illegal and reception must be carried out in qualitative conditions. I assume that everyone here in Parliament shares that view. However, we must adapt the current policy. We must ensure that we find a policy that does not go for pushbacks, because those pushbacks are illegal. We must also find a system that is realistic and feasible. You are well aware of the problem. You know how difficult it is to work with certain countries with regard to the withdrawal of their own nationals. Let alone being able to work with a number of countries to send people back and place them safely, as return is very difficult anyway. We must therefore work towards a new policy. It is very important that we avoid what we experienced in 2015. That is the great task facing Europe. We need a new model, a model that ensures that people are screened immediately at the borders of Europe and that there are stronger external borders with direct control. Europe is now also working on the system of smart borders. So one can know who comes in and who goes out. Today, these systems have not yet been digitised at all and we know far too little who comes in and who leaves. We can't do that anymore today. In order to avoid a new crisis, we really need a new asylum and migration pact. This faster screening at the external borders is a fundamental element, as is the return agreements to be concluded with the countries of origin at European level. They are also very important to ensure that return works effectively. We have already discussed the measures we can take, such as the proposed visa sanctions. There too, at European level, it is noted that the noses are finally in the same direction and everyone believes that a different approach is needed, a more comprehensive approach. It must be an approach based on cooperation, thinking about how we can invest in sustainable relations in the countries at our external borders, Europe's neighbours in North Africa, and strengthen those countries, so that they can become countries that are not immigration countries but emigration countries. Think of Libya, where a lot of people from Sub-Saharan Africa went to work in the past. We must ensure that Libya, today a springboard to Europe, becomes attractive again as an external border of Europe to welcome migrants seeking a better life. Today we are working on a new European asylum and migration policy and all European Member States are in favour of it. There will still be differences of opinion about who should show what solidarity and who should accept responsibility, but everyone agrees that we need to develop a system whereby everyone entering Europe is screened immediately at the border. Today we have systems that simply no longer work, and I do not need to convince anyone on this committee. The Dublin system is still helping us a little, but we all know that its application leaves too little to be desired. There are people on the verge of moving from one European country to another. This is not good for anyone, not for the Member States, but it is not good for those who move from one European country to another. That's why we're investing in it. We must also step up the fight against trafficking in human beings. So we need to create a better system, because the existing system is not working. You also asked a question about promoting human trafficking. I have just said that, like everyone else in this committee, I have undoubtedly seen the images of the border between America and Mexico. Walls cannot prevent human smugglers there too. They even act so criminally that they let toddlers and toddlers throw high down high. We must fight against the smugglers of human beings, but there is no system in the world that can completely stop people from smuggling. However, we must do everything we can to prevent this. That's the point I made. Then I come to vaccinate illegals or sans papers. I've seen you say on Facebook that I use the term sans-papiers, as if that were a politically correct term. I once entered sans-papiers and Theo Francken and saw that you used the same term. So it is not okay to say that I am using a politically correct term, that is just the term that is put on at some point and that is not meant to be wrong or right. If we're gonna fight fake news, we're gonna have to handle the right communication. It's logic itself that we vaccinate everyone. It is the logic itself that everyone who walks around Belgium is vaccinated. The virus makes no distinction between individuals. The virus is creating new hotbeds. The virus creates new variants that we see all over the place. We need to be able to vaccinate 80% of the population to achieve group immunity. This awareness is very important for all target groups. I would like to emphasise that we will also follow loyally the advice of the task force in the roll-out. I've always said there are 10,000 experts on COVID-19. I don't have the ambition to be number 10,001. In this respect, I am particularly listening to the advice of the task force, which is very clear in that regard. It's important to get everyone off that ugly virus.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic446x.u61	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your explanation. I agree with the point about human trafficking. I think it might have been a bit oddly formulated, but it is true that the model of trafficking in human beings is invigorated by the right of residence in the country of choice, very often the final destination of choice, when travelling illegally to the EU or the Schengen area. A lot of money has been put up for this. That's unmistakable. You're not denying that either. You say we need pushbacks. If international legal protection is guaranteed under a UNHCR mandate in a country outside the EU, I believe that this is a legal slope that could possibly make it, but the legal test will not be evident. Frontex has also made a number of legal notes. I do not know if you know this, but Frontex, together with the European Commission, is also thinking about how this should be done legally. There are many debates at Frontex. There is also the accusation against Mr Leggeri and Frontex that they would have done pushbacks. One can then work with takebacks. This is possible under European law. That is the same thing, but there would be no legal problem. A number of creative solutions are therefore possible. I remain convinced of that. I would also like to make it clear once again that my party does not want to take away the right of asylum from genuine refugees, but rather the right of residence when trying to reach Europe illegally. I believe that this will be the only solution in which we will reach a final conclusion. Isn't it in 2022, or ten years from now. However, it will have to be done. There's no other way. It's the same everywhere. You will see that we will finally move towards such a model. You say that we will carry out a rapid screening when the refugees arrive at Lampedusa, Moria, Lesbos or anywhere else. The problem is that such rapid screening is not possible. They have entered the country and then the return is difficult. One part does not cooperate; another part disappears. Do you want to lock them all up to secure the external borders? In that case, you'll have the whole NGO world on your roof. I just can't. Even on islands, we can't keep them. Just look at the Canary Islands, where there is a lot of transit, also from Greece to Italy. That's just not possible. We then see the difficult situation on Lesbos. The camp there is just horrible. Is that better? It is also disastrously badly organized there. Once the asylum seekers are inside and can apply for asylum, the procedure may last only ten days, which is impossible in a democracy and a bureaucratic regime as in Greece. I don't know if you've been there before or in Italy. I've spoken to all the asylum people there. It's, so to speak, pretty chaotic over there. We're doing it slow, too. It's always been months with us. In certain procedures it can be faster, but that also depends on the inflow. After that, the return must also be organized, which is also a very hellish assignment, which has been completely rejudicated. It is so difficult to get them organized that in the long run it is almost hopeless for an average official to start if he or she is already starting it. That's just the fact. I've been watching that model for 20 years. I've been running it for four years. I tried very hard. You are also of good will and work hard. I don't doubt that for a second. The fact is there is just there and you simply cannot look around. Once asylum seekers are inside and the procedure is started, there can be no rapid screening. You won't have them now, and you won't have them in 2024. That's what I predict to you. However, we shall see.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic446x.u62	Mr Secretary of State, you have reached an agreement with Actiris, for which I congratulate you. I also negotiated an agreement with the VDAB and Forem. At Actiris, it was very difficult. That fell on a cold stone, probably because I'm N-VA and the PS is in charge in Brussels. I don't know, but it certainly never worked. You have succeeded now, so I would like to have some explanation. I would also like to know if the chords with the VDAB and Forem work well. What are the results? How many percent of asylum seekers are actually working? In the meantime, have the agreements been evaluated and is this evaluation positive? Could you explain that a little bit more?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic446x.u63	Mr Francken, the modalities of the Actiris agreement correspond to those contained in the existing cooperation agreements with Forem and the VDAB. The Agreement applies to adult residents in the reception network who are received in the Brussels-Capital Region with an ongoing application for international protection of at least four months or residents who have already acquired a residence permit of more than three months. Since the conclusion of the agreements with Forem and the VDAB, there has been a recurrent cooperation to inform and refer residents of the reception network. Information sessions are also organised for employees of the various organisations as well as for residents. Recurrent cooperation builds a joint expertise on the employment of asylum seekers. Through the cooperation, we are also working together to find ways to respond to specific questions and current situations, e.g. seasonal work in the fruit harvest or horticulture and concrete contacts with certain companies to lead residents of the centres to training and to start work in companies, such as in construction companies. A challenge for the coming months is to further improve local cooperation between the VDAB, Forem and Actiris consultants and Fedasil's social assistants, so that we can speak not only of a cooperation agreement in black and white, but also of an effective use of the agreement to get people to work. There are no complete figures on the employment rate of residents in the reception centres. The development of an access for Fedasil to the Crossroads Bank is in the final phase. This will enable Fedasil to control the employment of residents. An automatic data sharing to check how many residents work is also considered. This is a complex task both in terms of IT development and GDPR. It is important to increase the employment of asylum seekers, with a view to the use of useful time, as well as the acquisition of competences. I have already stressed a number of times that these competences are always very useful, whether they are acquired to work here in Belgium, if one is entitled to international protection, or in the country of origin, if the person is not given international protection. It is also useful for the person who is told that he or she cannot stay here and who may not have a future in the country of origin. Learning competences facilitates integration and return to work on a return path. The person will be able to work more quickly with the competences taught here. We really want to bet on that. It would also be a wrong signal for those who stay here if we were to send the message to those people that they should be waiting for an answer. It's important to activate anyone who's finally allowed to stay here. Then one has to give a number of attitudes. We're working on that. I am particularly pleased that it has been possible to conclude that agreement with Actiris. I will also ensure that we make more of it both with Actiris, Forem and the VDAB than just a cooperation agreement and that it is effectively done on the ground through cooperation with the services and the VDAB, Forem and Actiris.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic446x.u64	I am content with that agreement with Actiris. I wish you every success. There are numbers. I always have the figure of 3 % workers in my head. That's very little. I don't know if that's better now. If you work, you have to report it. This is because we have the weekly allowance and we have to reimburse some of the accommodation costs. I will put a written question on that. I would like to have the available figures anyway. At that time it was also a problem that we do not have a full view of it. You'd be digitizing, but apparently that still hasn't worked out. In any case, I would like to ask for the figures that are available. I'd like to see evolution. You say that the agreements with the VDAB and Forem are being evaluated positively, but I want that quantified. I'm in my town hall now. I welcome you digitally and hope to show you around in my beautiful congregation someday. This morning, an asylum seeker from Rwanda made her third application. She applied for a work permit. There's no such thing. It's not easy. She had just been rejected again and had appealed. At this town hall such a card is automatically withdrawn, I do not know if that is the case everywhere. In any case, we support your commitment to ensure that more people in the middle of a procedure can get to work. That's important. If one has to wait for an answer, one better be useful in the meantime. In the corona crisis, you try to do the same for nursing and care. I saw an example from West Flanders in the paper. They are all good projects that we support. However, in nursing, for example, one must pay attention to the language. People need the care they need, including in the vaccination centres. Wouter Beke was here today: the 1 millionth 65-pluser of Flanders was vaccinated today in Lubbeek. This often concerns older people, who only speak and understand Dutch. That is the case, and it is important that people who come for their vaccine are well helped.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic446x.u65	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Ms Van Camp's 55016592C and 55016593C were postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic446x.u66	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I have tabled this question in response to what has appeared in the media on the findings of Lost In Europe on the disappearances of unaccompanied minors from the asylum shelter. Officially, 18.292 minor migrants travelling alone have been registered as missing after their arrival in Europe in the last three years. For Belgium alone, it concerns 2,642 registered missing persons in the period 2018-2020. These are minor children who have disappeared from Fedasil's observation and orientation centres. We don't know where these kids are or what's happening to them. All we know is that they are at serious risk of becoming victims of trafficking in human beings. Mr Secretary of State, I have the following questions. Each country shall be responsible for unaccompanied minors on its territory. What steps has the Belgian State taken to find these 2,642 children? After Italy, Belgium has reported the highest number of missing children in the European Union. Do you have an explanation for this? In De Standaard's article we are talking about the need for better framework for young people. How exactly do you see this? Could you give us a little more explanation? What further plans do you have to combat the massive disappearances of these vulnerable young people? Finally, according to Child Focus, unaccompanied minors are best dealt with in small-scale reception initiatives to better protect them against trafficking in human beings. How do you feel about this recommendation?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic446x.u67	Mr President, Secretary of State, of the more than 18 000 reported disappearances, 2,642 came from Belgium. In 2019 there were 500 cases and in 2018 more than 1,000 cases. Some disappearances are very worrying because we don't know where those children are. Currently registration is chaotic. There is confusion not only between European countries, but also in Belgium it is difficult to obtain clear figures. In addition to Fedasil, the Child Focus Foundation and the Voogdij department of the FPS Justice also keep statistics on the disappearances. It seems appropriate to put an end to this fragmentation. Mr Secretary of State, how are data on missing children centralized in Belgium? What concrete measures will you take to develop a uniform registration system? Do you have exact figures of the disappearances? How many of these children have been recovered according to the Aliens Office responsible for the registration of international applications for protection? Can you give me an explanation for these large numbers of disappearances? What have you done to reduce the number of alarming disappearances?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic446x.u68	Mr President, I will try to respond as fully as possible. As you know, I have revived the former task force for the disappearances of unaccompanied minors, with a modified agenda and a modified composition. In the working group there are many different players around the table: federal and community skabinets, administrations, Child Focus, parquet and police. The working group deals with the prevention of disappearances, the follow-up of disappearances and the sharing of data on this issue. In Belgium there is currently no centralised system on the number of disappearances. This means that Fedasil, the Voogdij, Child Focus and the parquets have their own figures. For example, Fedasil registered the disappearance of 1,072 young people in 2019 and of 583 young people in 2020. In 2019, there were 28 and 14 worrying disappearances in 2020. In Belgium, we have a ministerial directive which provides guidance on whether or not to consider a disappearance to be worrying. An example of a non-hospitable disappearance is a seventeen-year-old boy who indicated before his departure that he wanted to go to his big brother in Germany. As has been said, sharing and centralising data on disappearance is one of the main issues on the working party's agenda, because that is very important. I certainly share the frustration about the fragmentation. Indeed, the figures in Belgium are high. Any disappearance is too much, by the way. Every figure is too high, but I note that European statistics are unclear. There is no uniformity within the European Union as a result of the disappearance of the statistics. Fedasil's statistics also include non-hospitable disappearances. The question is whether this is also the case in other Member States. As far as finding missing minors is concerned, the succession lies with the police and the police. I cannot therefore answer the question as to how many of the minors were found. My services will, of course, report these disappearances to the police forces, to the Voogdij Department and to Child Focus. An important aspect of the prevention of disappearances is an adapted offer for certain minors. For many unaccompanied minors, Fedasil's offer has been adapted to their needs. It is true that this is not always the case for certain minors with specific needs. That's why Fedasil works with the agencies Growing up and Aide à la Jeunesse, to offer a more adapted place. In the case of indications of trafficking in human beings, contact is made with one of the specialised centres for further follow-up. With regard to disappearances, we see that two thirds of the disappearances reported by Fedasil are minors with street profiles or transit minors. These are young people who we know do not want to stay in a residential environment. They do not usually apply for asylum. I previously instructed Fedasil and the DVZ to register those minors, which, by the way, did not happen in the past. They also need an adapted offer, otherwise they will continue to disappear from our radar. We must first reach them and keep them with us in order to work on their future prospects afterwards. This is also discussed in detail within the working group. Within my budget, therefore, I pay attention to specific projects that focus on unaccompanied minors. I will also certainly take responsibility for other aspects of the journey.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic446x.u69	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for the answer. It's a good thing a working party is in charge of the follow-up. It is important to distinguish between a non-hospitable disappearance and an alarming disappearance. When we look at the worrying disappearances, we still have 28 disappearances in one year and 14 in the other. Those are facts to be very worried about. Every child entering human trafficking and being abused economically or sexually is too much. It is very important that we take action against this. Of course, there are also young people who choose not to stay in residential care and who disappear from the radar in this way. You also want to work on that. I think this is very important. Perhaps you can also take Child Focus' recommendation to heart. If young people can stay in a LOI, they may be more able to respond to their needs as minors. That can also be worked on. Good luck following up on this dossier, Mr Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic446x.u70	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for the answer. It's still about minors. It's very important to protect them. I know this is important to you, too. I would like to stress once again that the Australian model can really help to ensure that people do not just send their children to Europe. That does not mean, however, that we must carry out this dangerous pushback. If a third country is safe, one can wait for an answer and then travel safely. Let me give you an example. If we look at the dossiers in Turkey, these people will be able to travel safely after having received a positive response. We really need to do something about that. We must not look at this with satisfaction or prejudice. We must find a solution to ensure that people who really deserve it can come to us safely instead of being lost on the road in a dangerous journey because their parents have decided so.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic446x.u71	The Secretary of State must leave us. The pending questions were postponed to a next meeting.
