ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic548x.u1	Madam Minister, in his judgment of 17 June in the case of the Climate Change Association, the judge did condemn it, which is now well known - but if I read the text, it seems to me that it did not have any concrete consequences for the specific ruling. For example, the judge does not impose an objective to be achieved, which was the demand put on the table by the people of the Climate Change Association. This was the case in similar cases in the neighbouring countries. Just for that reason, the plaintiffs have stated that they will appeal. Now the question arises, among other things, how the federal government will deal with this and how it will behave. Of course, the requirements of the non-ETS Climate Business are not only about the non-ETS targets that we were imposed on in the context of the Efficiency Sharing Decision, but also about the emissions trading system. This means that all emissions on the territory will be included. This is, of course, somewhat at odds with the government's ambition to build up to 2.2 GW of new gas plants. The answer was always that we did not have to care too much about it, as it falls within the emissions trading system and would therefore be compensated elsewhere. But with the requirements of climate change, that is a different matter. I ask you very specifically: how do you analyse the ruling yourself? You've always refused to give a ruling as long as the trial went on. Well, it's over now. It would therefore be interesting to hear about this. Will the federal government appeal the verdict itself? Do you, and with that also the government, support all the demands that have been put on the table by the Climate Change Association? What steps do you wish to take in the dossier?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic548x.u2	Madam Secretary, on Thursday 17 June, the long-awaited verdict fell in the Belgian climate case. The 65,000 plaintiffs of Climate Action had to wait for this for a little over seven years due to the various delaying manoeuvres of the Flemish and federal policy level. But their sustained struggle pays off with a conviction from every competent government in our country. However, unlike similar cases abroad, the judge does not impose binding emission standards on the various authorities. That is a pity, because as you say in your press release, the trial has no legally binding consequences for the convicted governments. You will immediately add that you respect the court's ruling and want to take responsibility for a sufficiently ambitious climate policy. What concrete new actions will you take to review federal and Belgian climate policy, so that it respects the ruling in the climate case? How will you guarantee compliance with the principle of care and the protection of human rights? How is it that no increased reduction target has been announced yet? In Germany, this happened within the week following the German state's conviction for negligent climate policy. In what way will you include the verdict in the forthcoming negotiations on the intra-Belgian Burden Sharing for the 2030 climate goals?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic548x.u3	Madam Minister, after six years there is finally a verdict in a court of law and the conviction is the result of a very weak climate policy in our country in recent years. However, as Mr Wollants rightly points out, the judge does not have any concrete consequences for his ruling. Even though I fully understand the pronunciation, I do not share the party mood at PVDA. It is not up to the judges to lay down what we must do, because that is what politics must do and politics must assume its responsibilities. Madam Minister, you may not be responsible for what has happened in the past few years in the field of climate policy, which has caused a great deal of the ruling, but today, of course, you are the Minister responsible. How are you handling the case? Which steps will you or will you not take? What impact does the ruling have on your policy?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic548x.u4	Mr President, Madam Minister, on 17 June 2021, the French-speaking court of first instance in Brussels ruled that Belgian climate and environmental policy contravenes the legal obligation of diligence and the articles of the European Convention on Human Rights relating to respect for private and family life. Its verdict states that the three Regions are jointly and individually responsible. It is a conviction in law without financial or legal consequences. It is good to make that clear. Minister, following the announcement of the verdict, you said you had "as early as April, put in place a tool to monitor federal policies and measures to achieve climate goals". To this I would like to add the publication of the report Scenarios for a climate neutral Belgium by 2050. We have two interesting tools here, given the enormous challenges facing us. Minister, can we now know whether the decision of the court of first instance will affect the possible implementation of these initiatives, or at least the timing of their implementation? On March 30, I was questioning you about the ten days of the ASL Climate Case hearing. You then told me that you were waiting for June and the European Commission's proposals to transpose into concrete legislation the European targets for reducing our emissions by at least 55% by 2030 and for climate neutrality by 2050 and to revise the European climate architecture accordingly. Can we get information about this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic548x.u5	Mr.President, Minister, in 2015, the ASBL Climate case, supported by a series of Ecolo agents, including you, brought the matter before the courts to compel the federal state and the three regions of the country to honour their promises to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Three weeks ago, the Brussels Court of First Instance found that Belgium's figures for reducing greenhouse gas emissions were mixed. He also noted the lack of good climate governance by the Belgian authorities, despite repeated warnings from the European Union. The court also found that the federal and regional authorities have not taken all necessary measures to prevent the effects of climate change on the lives of citizens, as required by articles 2 and 8 of the European Court of Human Rights. Minister, since climate-related competences are largely in the hands of regional entities, which is why the regional authorities are also affected by this judgment, have you had contacts with your regional counterparts in this post-judgement framework for the evaluation of the decision of the Brussels Court of First Instance? If so, what is the outcome of these contacts? Can you provide further details on the follow-up you will give to this judgment? At the end of March, in our Energy-Climate Committee, you stressed your wish to propose to the Council of Ministers to oblige members of the government to introduce federal climate policy measures on the basis of the actions of the National Energy-Climate Plan 2021-2030 (PNEC), which was adopted under the previous government, and the initiatives provided for in the Government Agreement. What about it? Do you also have any information regarding the adaptation of the PNEC? The government undertakes, in the government agreement, to adapt its contribution to the PNEC in the light of European developments in this field and, I suppose, in the light of this very recent case law. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic548x.u6	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I agree with what Mr Verduyckt said and what was also specifically mentioned in your press release, Madam Minister, namely that climate policy should not be placed in the hands of the court. Fortunately, it did not happen as Mrs Daems hopefully suggested, namely that courts would impose CO2 reduction targets. This reminds me of times long gone in the 20th century, which I would rather not remember. Have you had any contact with your regional colleagues on this matter, given that this concerns all the authorities in this country? Will you, as a federal government, appeal this verdict?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic548x.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, some key elements of the ruling in the climate case have already been published in the press. I will repeat them here for the record. Not only the complaint of the Climate Aid Association but also that of the 58.000 co-claimers has been declared admissible by the court of first instance of Brussels. This is contrary to the 82 trees that have no legal personality in our country. The court ruled that there is a real threat of dangerous climate change with a direct, adverse impact on the daily lives of current and future generations in Belgium. The court infers from this a positive obligation for the Federal State and the Regions which is based on articles 2 and 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights. Governments must take the necessary measures to repair and prevent the adverse impact of climate change. Subsequently, on the basis of three elements, namely the underperformance of public authorities in relation to the binding climate objectives, the lack of adequate national climate policy governance and repeated warnings from the European Commission, the court ruled that the federal state and the three regions committed an error by not acting prudently and with caution. They have failed to fulfil their obligations under Articles 2 and 8 of the ECHR. On the other hand, the court did not respond to the applicants' request to impose national emission reductions for 2020 and 2030. The judge held that this would be contrary to the separation of powers. It does not intend to determine the content of the obligations of a public authority and thereby remove its discretion. As I said earlier, I respect the judgment of the Court of First Instance in Brussels. As far as the content is concerned, the three elements that the court considers to have failed are already answered by our government agreement and by a number of initiatives on governance that I have already taken. As a result, we are increasing the rate of emission reductions, making our share in the development of renewable energies, working towards better governance of federal climate policy through both monitoring and scenarios, and sharing European ambitions to achieve the emission reduction target of at least 55%. The new wind is already making itself feel. This time we received no criticism from the European Commission, but just good points for climate investment in the relance plan. This is also the merit of the other governments. For my part, I am making every effort to align all the levers of the federal policy concerned (taxation, mobility, energy, agriculture, etc.) on this target of -55%. My colleagues are in line with this ambition and we are aware that this will require even more effort in some areas. We are currently receiving the first draft roadmaps for the various federal climate measures. In September, I will bring it all together and before the Council of Ministers, as previously agreed. This work incorporates the answers to the Commission's remarks on the PNEC, it introduces an increase in ambitions with regard to the majority agreement and we are indeed waiting for the Fit for 55 package in order to be able to put on the table further measures. The plaintiff would consider an appeal, which probably means that this case has another follow-up. In any event, I will continue to shape a strong climate policy that is part of the existing and future European climate architecture, with its differentiated regulations for the so-called non-ETS, ETS and LULUCF sectors. It is a "judicial" obligation with regard to condemnation and it is also a moral obligation with regard to our responsibility to future generations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic548x.u8	Madam Secretary, I do not know whether the plaintiffs will be entirely reassured by your reference to the government agreement. After all, you said that the coalition agreement fully meets the requirements of climate change. When I look at their demands, I'm a little afraid of that. After all, they are asking for targets to be imposed and achieved for the ETS within their own territory, and I do not have the impression that you are on that track. On the contrary, the government has always said that the ETS is a European story and that we do not have to look at it. However, climate change demands something else. You also did not answer my question as to whether you support all the requirements of the climate business association. I understand that there are differing views within the government, but it is significant that there is still no clarity today about how you intend to proceed with that. Finally, I wonder where these concrete measures will be by 2030. After all, we know that many of these things will only start to work by 2030. In the current state of affairs with regard to the second offshore zone, I doubt whether there will be much of that before 2030. I look forward with particular interest to the package that you will be presenting in September. However, if you say that the coalition agreement meets every requirement of climate change, I fear that this is not the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic548x.u9	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I do not hide from you that the ecologists were waiting for the outcome of this trial with great impatience. It is impressive to note that today's citizens are led to think that it is necessary to go through the courts to be heard. It is obvious that since the time when the complaint was filed, things have changed a lot at the Belgian level because we have a new government with objectives that have been aligned in the light of the applicants' request. Since the verdict came down, the effects of climate change have become even more visible. I am thinking here of the huge peaks of heat in Canada, the fires that occur everywhere. It is essential that at the level of the courts, but also and above all at the political level, we take the measure of this climate change and that we live up to the expectations of the citizens, but also to our fundamental human rights. You recalled the initiatives under way. When your government celebrates the first anniversary of its entry into office, a series of measures will have been validated, which should enable us to reach our targets in 2030 and prepare for 2050. It is normal for such measures to take some time. But the expectations are enormous in terms of our government's ability to meet the requirements for mitigation and reduction of greenhouse gases. I do not know whether the applicants will appeal or not, or whether it will have a significant impact. I look forward to receiving information on this matter. But let us not wait until the citizens do the work and use their means, their health and their time by having to go through the courts so that businesses and policies can live up to the demands of our human rights in the face of climate change.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic548x.u10	Madam Minister, the lack of new measures in response to the condemnation in the climate case is particularly worrying. That's not only our opinion, but also the people from Climate Change said so in the seventh day. You are responding with measures that are already in place for the ruling in the climate case. However, the whole point of this condemnation is that these measures are not enough. The judge has studied your policy, you have been able to argue your case, and the verdict was that it was not enough to guarantee people the right to life. By not adjusting your policy after the ruling in the climate case, you show that you do not realize the seriousness of the conviction, which is a disgrace to a green minister. In addition, since the beginning of the Climate Court case, you have had a record of judges not having to do politics. They do not do that here either, but they only find that the governments in our country do not take their responsibility to protect humanity from a dangerous climate change. International conventions have been concluded on this subject which Belgium does not comply with. In this case, the government has rightly been condemned for failing to implement climate policy. This means that you must do something about it, in particular to increase climate ambition to what science considers necessary. That is much more than planning a 55% reduction by 2030, which this government calls ambitious. It is time for binding emission standards, in line with science. We support the citizens behind the climate case in order to enforce the execution of the verdict.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic548x.u11	Madam Minister, there is no denying that climate change and loss of biodiversity affect us all. Just look at the heat waves in Spain, the floods in Germany, the fires in Cyprus and the risk of extreme and permanent flooding along the European coasts. So we see that climate change is already in full swing. The Court of First Instance's ruling on the Climate Action case was that it was "a violation of the legal duty of the public authorities towards their inhabitants and a violation of the human rights of its citizens'. That statement must wake us all up. Every day, all policy makers have to ask themselves whether they are doing enough to limit global warming to a maximum of 1.5 °C. If we do not, it will have consequences for our citizens, for their health and also for our environment and our economy. A strong economy cannot exist in a weakened environment. It is true that Europe has increased its speed and we must cooperate proactively and constructively. I think you're taking steps in this area, too. You yourself say that we can tackle this only if all the governments of this country work together: the federal government, all the regional governments and the local authorities. Cooperation with civil society and citizens is also needed. If we allow the citizens to participate, then we can still turn the tide. This can be done, for example, by investing in public transport, as your colleague Mr Gilkinet does. We must also try to make our industry and our agriculture more sustainable. In addition, we must generate our energy sustainably. Moreover, all this requires a fair and sustainable funding framework. I call on you to continue to devote energy to finding solutions and working together so that sustainable choices also become logical choices.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic548x.u12	Madam Secretary, you say that this trial concerns all the governments in this country. I fully support the court's ruling on strengthening governance, because I do not think the fragmentation is a good thing. This statement does not set out any targets for 2030, but I wonder if we really need them. Unlike six years ago, when the case was filed, I believe that we are all wide awake today. After all, we see the consequences in our own country, namely houses that are beginning to crack and the water pollution that has to do with our great love for concrete. We see heat records being broken every day abroad, and that's got to scare us off. Cases have already been leaked from the forthcoming IPCC report and it is simply disastrous. In fact, we do not need that, we know what is going on. What needs to be done is also very clear. We need a strong climate policy from all the governments in this country. All parties are involved. I find it a little strange that the N-VA should comment on the coalition agreement here. After all, I cannot reconcile this with Flemish climate realism. The PVDA says it supports the citizens of Climate Change but when Parliament thinks about instruments like a carbon tax, which every environmental economist says we need, or about the social transition, it does not give at home. It's a little too easy to stand behind the climate case and then not cooperate on solutions. Tomorrow is a very important day for European policy. I can't wait to see what that's gonna do. Belgium must no longer be the worst student in the class. We've been in the back of the peloton for the past few years, but we really can't afford that anymore, especially with this statement in mind.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic548x.u13	Madam Minister, I just want to say stop at the ambient morosity and the repeated defeatism! With this new government, I want to be constructive. We have challenges to face and the main challenge is that of heading 2030 to achieve the goals that have been set at all costs. This should not remain a mere announcement effect, but rather concrete daily actions! I'd say, "With your efforts, citizens!"
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic548x.u14	Mr President, on 14 July, it is tomorrow: "To arms, citizens!" In fact, Mr.Senesael lives in Estaimpuis close to the French border. So he knows very well what we're talking about. That said, I am a little sad that Mr Senesael did not have this optimism in previous years when he was sitting on the same committee and that we were talking about the same subject which is a long-standing subject on which I would still like to come back a little bit, Mr President. What are we talking about here? We're talking about a judgment, a case in court. I therefore read on page 80 of this judgment that "the plaintiffs requested that by 2030, 65% of the greenhouse gas reduction be achieved and at least 55% of the 1990 level". It's already a pretty strong demand. The court's response is to say that this request for an injunction through the judicial bodies of the plaintiffs from civil society and political society vis-à-vis the federal and regional governments cannot be granted without undermining the principle of separation of powers. The court then sets out a series of standards, indicating each time they are not binding apart from those that exist at European level where legally binding commitments for Belgium are found, on the one hand, in the Regulation 2018 which requires the reduction of greenhouse gases by 35% and, on the other hand, in the Directive 2018 which imposes 13% renewable energy. There are, of course, the intermediate developments that we have seen recently, since the European Union itself was committed to reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 55% and to carbon neutrality by 2050. I would add that the plaintiffs sought a very large penalty payment per unit of delay which was not granted at all by the court. This is good for the state's finances, but it also shows that this ASBL - which has legal advice which is not the last in terms of professional knowledge - has forgotten that an ASBL pursues a social objective and that it obviously cannot apply for this type of financial conviction because it would not know what to do with it. It respects its objective by introducing action, but all it can actually do is perhaps ask for a euro as moral damage. Certainly not receiving a periodic penalty payment, especially to pay the costs of advice. Moreover, in the pleadings, there had been a production of the ASBL's accounting documents which showed, for example, how much the defence of the plaintiffs had cost a priori. You can see that all this is also money. It's not just about good goals, it's about money. I am pleased that, in the context of the separation of powers, this court has put things in their place, saying that it is not for the judiciary to issue injunctions to the executive or legislative branch. It is not for the judiciary to order an executive power to pay periodic penalty payments to do something that does not even exist as a constraint in any text. That's the base. Now, there are the policies you've been developing for ten months. In two months' time, when you're back in school, you're about to reach the year of government. As other speakers have said, we have not yet seen the ounce of concrete action. On the other hand, unfortunately, you do not have the energy skills in your hands. You are dependent on a colleague - with whom I have no doubt that you are getting along well. We are in the presence of two heads (not one) and four hands (not only yours). If I repeat what Mr Wollants said earlier, when we look at the projections of the Plan Bureau in relation to CO2 in our territory, we have an increase calculated by the Plan Bureau to an additional 12% of greenhouse gases on our soil by 2026, in the framework of your legislature. So you already have to deal with the activity of a colleague who will increase your greenhouse gases on our soil by 12% from the perspective of the Plan Bureau.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic548x.u15	Mrs Marghem, you have to close. You've been talking for three minutes thirty as part of a replica!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic548x.u16	Mr President, the subject is important and we are in the middle of a topical debate. We have ten speakers. Let me finish! The second thing I find important and on which I have not yet seen anything is the sharing of efforts (the Burden Sharing 2020-2030). The court was seized of this case in 2015 and thus saw the entire legislature and all the work done (the PNEC, the Interfederal Energy Pact, the Burden Sharing 2013-2020). Today, after ten months of governance, there is still no visible meeting or agreement with the federated entities on the sharing of efforts to reduce greenhouse gases - only to take this element - by 2030. I am therefore extremely disappointed with your references to the Government Agreement, your references to the Recovery Plan and other plans, plans and plans. You refer to all this without any concrete action. So I'm waiting for something to come back to school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic548x.u17	I would like to remind you of the speaking time. I'm not gonna be unpleasant and shut down micros, but I'm gonna ask you to avoid four-minute replies. Mr Ravyts, you had your chance in the first part. Normally you may take the floor in the first part or in the reply, but you have chosen the first part.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic548x.u18	Madam Minister, at the beginning of June, the carbon border adjustment mechanism (CBAM) has already been leaked. I put a question on that at the time. Even though it is already a few weeks old, it remains burningly topical, as the European Commission will be communicating tomorrow on its Fit for 55 programme, which deals with the expansion of the ETS, shipping, aviation and CBAM. How did Belgium have an impact on the discussions about this? What were the stings? I am thinking, for example, of the electricity sector, since we are still importing electricity from outside Europe, in particular Britain. So that could have an impact. I also asked a question about the CBAM Authority. Finally, do some companies that receive free CO2 rights today enjoy double protection? If so, the CBAM would in itself be a measure for nothing. How do you look at that? How are you holding up in that discussion?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic548x.u19	Mr Verduyckt, thank you for your questions on this important European dossier on the interface between environmental protection, diplomatic relations, taxation, trade, economics, customs and energy. In view of the large and numerous interests involved, it was decided that the coordination of the Belgian position by the FPS Foreign Affairs, Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation would be observed. The FOD would act as chairman of a CBAM working group, consisting of regional and federal administrations. The proposals from that working group will then be discussed at DGE meetings, in the presence of representatives of regional and federal ministerial policy cells. For example, the DGE meeting was able very recently, on 23 June, to approve a first Belgian position in the file. Belgium sees a targeted and proportionate CBAM as one of the possible options to protect European producers from the risk of carbon leakage, together with other measures and mechanisms. Whatever choice is made on the border adjustment mechanism, the working group asks the Union to continue its efforts to communicate and to sensitise our trading partners and relevant international organisations. Furthermore, the document sets out a set of conditions that the potential CBAM must meet, including the call for it to be implementable, verifiable and sufficiently effective, and that account should be taken of the export dimension, as well as its impact on competitiveness and value chains, even if some sectors are not included. It also calls for the CBAM rules to be compatible with those of the World Trade Organisation, for the possible negative effects on European consumers to be taken into account and for the positive effects on the climate to be maximised. You asked which sectors are involved. The Commission's proposed approach is largely in line with the Belgian view that priority should be given to those sectors with a higher risk of carbon leakage, while the interconnection of the electricity market should also be a focus of attention. In the longer term, the feasibility, economic impact and European social benefits of extending the mechanism to all sectors will have to be assessed. As regards the leaked draft document on the CBAM authority, I am afraid to inform you that our knowledge is also limited to what is reported in the formally non-existent document. With regard to your question about the double protection of CBAM sectors, which would also receive free rights during the transitional period, the Federal Government's position is very clear: the rules of the World Trade Organisation must always be respected.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic548x.u20	Madam Minister, there is, of course, some nervousness about the dossier, especially in the major trading blocs, such as Russia, the US and China. That makes sense. However, a country like China has very clear climate ambitions by 2060, while it still wants to build coal plants. It is, of course, a mechanism that can have a major impact. The gradual introduction through sectors is a good thing. I understand that Belgium was involved in the process and that you cannot answer all the questions. I'll wait until tomorrow for answers. I assume that we will discuss European plans later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic548x.u21	Mr President, Minister, on 8 July 2021, in your capacity as Federal Minister for the Environment, you convened an Inter-Ministerial Conference on the Environment and Health with regard to the problem of PFAs and PFOS pollution, in the light of current events. You wanted to take stock of the situation and coordinate efforts, but you also wanted to prepare us for the future. You were President of the Inter-Ministerial Conference, but of course the regional ministers are also involved. I have taken note of your press release on the establishment of a coordination strategy between the various entities, with a view to removing the pfas pollution in Belgium and limiting the use of these substances to the absolute minimum, in particular the essential uses. I have also taken note of your intention to share information on early warnings between the members of the conference and, of course, also to study the resolution of Mr Senesael who deserves to be honored. This resolution was adopted by the Federal Parliament. After Mr Senesael's amendment, we also approved it. You have also appointed a group of experts to develop a strategy for harmonisation and optimisation. Could you give us some more information on that? We would like to have some more detailed information about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic548x.u22	Mr President, Madam Minister, on June 30, 2021, you indicated in plenary session that you had convened an interdepartmental Conference on Environment and Health for July 8, 2021 to discuss the issue of pollution at the PFAS and, in particular, the pollution phenomenon observed several weeks ago in Zwijndrecht, in order to prepare for the future in such a way that such incidents no longer occur. Minister, can we get information about the discussions with your colleagues in the federated entities, as well as about the decisions on the PFSAs made at the ICD on July 8th? The NAPED National Endocrine Disruptors Action Plan is developed and followed up at the Interdepartmental Conference on Environment and Health. This plan will be submitted to Environment Ministers for pre-validation in September 2021. Its final validation is scheduled for December 2021, and the first actions will be launched at the beginning of 2022. Can we know whether the inclusion in the NAPED plan of measures relating to the problem of PFAS and, in particular to the phenomenon observed in Zwijndrecht, was mentioned at the ICD of 8 July, and how? On the same day, we were informed that it had been decided at the Conference that Belgium should include an item on PFAS on the agenda of the next meeting of Environment Ministers of the European Union. Can we be informed of the elements relating to this point brought and which will be presented and presented at this meeting?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic548x.u23	Mr President, Minister, last week you announced that you, together with the three regional ministers for the environment and the nine health ministers, want to implement a Belgian PFAs coordination strategy. It would aim at removing pfas pollution in Belgium and limiting the use of pfas to an absolute minimum, i.e. only in essential applications. What concrete actions and steps will the government take in relation to the existing pfas pollution or to prevent a new pollution? The two main aspects of pfas at federal level are food safety and product standardisation, and thus a possible ban on the use of pfas for non-essential uses. Are you going to introduce a Belgian ban on the use of pfas for non-essential uses pending a possible European ban? If not, what actions within your own powers are you going to take? Last week it came out that the BFSA applied totally obsolete standards in the assessment of PFOS pollution in Zwijndrecht. The current standard is 238 times stricter than the one applied. How is food safety dealt with in the PFAs strategy? Are you going to ensure that Minister Clarinval applies the most recent standards? What other actions are planned to safeguard food safety? What about the affected farmers? Will they be compensated for the damage suffered?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic548x.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in view of the topicality of PFAS pollution in Flanders, I felt that while it was important to shed some light on the past, it was just as important to prepare for the future. This was the subject of the meeting of the Interdepartmental Conference on Environment and Health (CIMES). That is how I drew up the agenda. The aim was to take stock of the current situation of PFAS, to exchange information between ministers and, above all, to see how to organise for the future. I also wanted to extend the discussion and conclusions to fundamental principles, namely the One World principle, One Health and the precautionary principle, as these two principles are at the centre of the debate in Flanders. To my surprise and to my great dismay, given Flemish news, these elements were swept away by Flanders, which considered all this superfluous. Our work has therefore focused on the PFAS. As some of you have already said, the IMC for the Environment and Health believes that a coherent response to the current PFAs problem should be provided by implementing a Belgian PFAs coordination strategy. The Inter-Ministerial Conference aims to put an end to pollution caused by PMAs in Belgium and to limit the use of these substances to an absolute minimum, i.e. to essential uses. CIMES has decided to pool national action opportunities to complement European initiatives. In addition, it was decided to entrust a group of PFAS experts of the different levels of power involved in CIMES with the task of harmonising and optimizing all the actions undertaken in Belgium. This working group will act as a national advisory body, including exchanges of information and data on measures already taken and to be taken on PFAS in Belgium. It will also ensure good communication and harmonization with other relevant parties and entities, such as the Federal Agency for Food Chain Security. The work of the expert group will be the subject of a further CIMES meeting in November. Members of the IMC shall further undertake to share information on early warning with the other entities as soon as possible. CIMES also took note of the resolution of the Federal Parliament of 25 June and decided to study how to implement it. CIMES is also committed to supporting a strong and ambitious Belgian position at EU level in the context of the implementation of the European Strategy for Sustainable Chemicals and will ask the Slovenian Presidency via the Belgian representative to bring the fight against PFAS to the agenda of the European Environment Council. At international level, the federal government is involved in the negotiations on environment and chemicals. At national level, we are involved, among other things, in the regulation of the placing on the market of products containing pfas and their monitoring. As a result of the numerous applications, several regulations and therefore several ministers are involved. I am thinking here of the law on product standards, the REACH regulation and the POP regulation (Persistent Organic Pollutants). Of course, there are other powers, such as the safety of the food chain, that come to my colleagues. In my capacity as President of the IMC, I will take the opportunity to implement all possible and relevant measures at Belgian level, to move away from the silo approach and to encourage synergies between the authorities concerned. In addition, the planned NEHAP 3 and the NAPED can take action on the PFAs issue. Some actions that are still under discussion will focus specifically on pfas. A large number of pfas are indeed suspected of being hormone disrupting. They thus fall within the scope of the NAPED. With regard to the maximum recommended values established for health protection by EFSA, I refer you for further information to my colleagues, Ministers Clarinval and Vandenbroucke, who are competent for food chain issues. The National Action Plan on Endocrine Disruptors (NAPED) will reduce the exposure of the Belgian population, particularly vulnerable groups, to endocrine disruptors. This will lead to a reduction of the risks not only to health but also to the environment. As we know, a large number of PFAS are suspected of being endocrine disruptors. They are therefore affected by the actions of NAPED. On the other hand, some actions still under discussion will specifically target the PFAS, as I said. These actions include preventive measures, regulatory measures and actions relating to scientific research. At present, my services support in particular the following processes at European level. In March 2021, a proposal for a restriction on PFAS C9 to C14 was adopted by the Member States in the REACH Committee. Belgium voted in favour and submitted a declaration calling for ambitious regulatory actions, including the export ban. The technical dossier for the restriction of PFHX.1 compounds is currently in the preparation phase. There will be a period of public consultation. By 1 October 2021 ECHA is expected to submit a proposal to restrict PFAS in fire foams. A general restriction of the PFAS to the REACH Committee is currently being developed. The proposal will be submitted in the first half of 2022 for opinion by the Scientific Committees of ECH1. Apart from REACH, various exemptions under the POP Regulation will soon end for substances related to PFOS and PFO1. As I explained in your discussions on your Parliament's recent resolution on the PFAS, our country has so far supported ambitious European action in this area. I will continue to defend, within the federal government, and within all relevant cenacles, a general ban on all non-essential uses of these substances. With regard to the questions on the management of decontamination or possible compensation, I refer you to the responsibility of the Flemish Minister of the Environment. Having said that, I obviously share the principle that the costs resulting from pollution reduction measures must be borne entirely by the polluter. It's a minimum. However, it is no longer possible to repair certain diffuse pollution. Many pollutions are actually paid by the community, not in direct costs, but in loss of quality of life, health of people and the environment. So, with a lot of quotes, a "simple" straightening can't prepare the irreparable. That is why I wanted the Interministerial (mixed) Conference on Environment and Health (CIMES) to set out an ambitious preventive policy to avoid such disasters in the future, highlighting the principles of the One World, One Health and the precautionary principle. As I mentioned at the beginning of my speech, Flanders did not wish to be part of this vision. However, I will continue to defend with my colleagues in Wallonia and Brussels, and with my colleague Vandenbroucke, a preventive policy. As I said, this must help to avoid such disasters in the future by applying the precautionary principle in the authorisation of suspicious substances. Specifically, new substances that have not proven to be safe should not be allowed, rather than waiting for evidence of risk to act. There is also the One World approach, one health, which aims to unblock decision-making centres around distributed competences and coordination to apply the best measures at the best levels, and this, sufficiently early and finally, a preventive policy that I have mentioned. Finally, the last element I would like to highlight here is the recognition of ecocide in our criminal law.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic548x.u25	Madam Secretary, thank you for your comprehensive answer. The silo approach, as you describe it, and which I could also call a sandbox approach, is, of course, the result of the institutional reality in this country, including the preventive health policy. In addition, it is also a given fact that the parliamentary committee of inquiry at Flemish level proves that various administrations have been rather creative, carefully expressed, with the current and rapidly evolving European legislation on PFOS and, I hope, also pfas in their generality. I also refer to the existing discussion about how the BFSA has interpreted or approached this. There is therefore a growing understanding of this problem. I believe that the implementation of Mr Senesael's resolution in this moving insight can play an important role. We have also noted, however, that this resolution makes a clear reference to cooperation with the regional level. At European level, too, things have to move much faster. I share those ambitions. After the recess, we will come back with questions, because this inter-ministerial conference and the expert group are now going to work on the assignment.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic548x.u26	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer, which I will take two thoughts from you. First, we can welcome your willingness to take this issue into account at the federal and federated levels and the establishment of a working group of experts to harmonize and optimize efforts within CIMES. This proposal to convene the interdepartmental conference next November will, I hope, bring positive results. We encourage you to do so. Secondly, I thank you for the preventive measures, the ambitious regulations and the scientific research that you have reported. I stress the significant progress and your determination in this regard. You can count on our support and vigilance for you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic548x.u27	Madam Minister, I have not received an answer to my question as to whether you will introduce a ban on the use of pfas in non-essential applications? Yes or no? After all, product standardisation is your competence. I do not see how you will otherwise achieve one of the objectives of your strategy, which is to limit the use of PPPs to an absolute minimum. A number of coalition partners may tell you that this cannot be done because it has to be done at European level and we need a level playing field. But that's bullshit. The Netherlands is already in the process of banning certain pfas products, especially those in food. We therefore ask you to take urgent action against a Belgian ban on the use and production of pfas for non-essential uses. We're not the only ones asking this. On the march for a healthy city and port in Antwerp two weeks ago, the spokesperson of ABVV Chemie from the Antwerp harbour asked to get to work on it as soon as possible. In any case, I hope that your PFAs coordination strategy will be more than bleat and little wool.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic548x.u28	Minister, I welcome the fact that you have put this ICD in place to allow for a concerted vision with the Regions. We are moving hand in hand with the Regions on these issues. I am appalled by the limited responsiveness and proactive vision of our Flemish colleagues. I do not understand that we cannot yet really endorse the precautionary principle and project ourselves, especially in the face of a disaster which mainly affects the Flemish population but not only. The region where 3M is located is an important agricultural land and this probably affects our food security at national or even European level. I do not understand that this kind of episode is not an incentive to really look to the future in a really cautious way. I would also like to stress that it was useful to hear that Belgium had taken an ambitious position in the European debate. The debate is not over. We're gonna have to keep holding that line. We know that it is always difficult to move the ship that is Europe. As far as possible, you should encourage your National Action Plan on Endocrine Disruptors (NAPED) but also the other strategies you are putting in place, so that they can go, if necessary, further than Europe. Some member countries legislate faster and more ambitiously than Europe on the restriction of PFAS, PFOS and the whole range. This is the case in Denmark and the Netherlands. I would like Belgium to be one of the best pupils at European level and to give us the means to preserve our environment and our health, as seems to be your ambition.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic548x.u29	Madam Minister, COP26 was postponed to this year last year, but when it comes to climate change, it is no time to waste. I didn't invent that slogan for the record. I was just talking about the IPCC report coming up. A lot of things make it clear that there is a big problem. We also have a much better view of the consequences when, for example, the earth heats up 2 °C instead of 1,5 °C. That information only increases the importance of that COP. I note, moreover, that the climate issue is not only on the international climate summits, but also on the agenda, for example, for NATO or the G7. It is certainly a good thing that everyone is aware that the issue needs to be discussed at international level. What is the state of Belgium's preparations for COP26? Which, in your opinion, are the most important buttons to be cut through there? Last time, I expressed my concern about international participation. Everyone is best present at that summit. Is there any more clarity about the organisation itself?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic548x.u30	Mr Verduyckt, COP26 will indeed be an important milestone in international climate negotiations. We must collectively seize this opportunity to show that we are serious about the international fight against climate change. Because of the COOVID-19 pandemic, there have been no multilateral talks for over a year. At the beginning of this year, under the leadership of the United Kingdom, a new trajectory of virtual workshops for technical experts was launched. Every month there are also virtual consultations between Heads of Delegation. Both substantive and procedural elements will be addressed in the run-up to COP26. In June 2021, virtual negotiations could be organised within the framework of the climate convention auxiliary bodies. During the summer months various ministerial meetings will take place, virtually and physically. The aim is to untangle as many knots as possible before the Glasgow conference. The pre-COP in Milan on 1 September must also play a role in this. At Belgian and European level, the processes are, of course, closely monitored. The Belgian participation and positioning is organised in the context of the Co-ordination Working Group on Greenhouse Gas Effect under the Coordination Committee on International Environmental Policy (CCIM), coordinated by my administration. COP26 President Alok Sharma has put forward four objectives for COP26, which I support: the ambition and adaptation, the financing and the concreteisation of the so-called Paris roadbook. I will briefly comment on those four points. All countries are asked to set ambitious 2030 targets aimed at reducing net emissions to zero by the middle of the century. We must not lose the possibility of limiting global warming to 1.5 °C. I certainly do not need to remind you that the European Union has set climate neutrality by 2050 and has adjusted its 2030 target from O240 to O255 %. Progress in adapting to climate change to protect communities and ecosystems is another important issue. Discussions on global adaptation objectives and how to monitor concrete progress are part of them. It sets out the European Adaptation Strategy, which was endorsed at the recent meeting of the Environment Council. In addition to the ambition, climate finance is an important aspect to create confidence in the run-up to the Glasgow Summit. Developed countries have committed themselves to mobilising USD 100 billion for climate finance by 2020 and to maintaining that target until 2025. That objective will be evaluated in Glasgow. The negotiation process on Objective 2025 will also begin. The latest OECD figures indicate that the international community will not meet the 100 billion target. Several countries have already announced additional efforts. The commitment in the government agreement to increase the federal contribution to international climate finance should be seen in this context. The establishment of a political agreement on the outstanding points of the Paris implementing rules is also crucial. Think of the important discussions on Article 6. For Belgium, environmental integrity, the contribution to sustainable development and respect for human rights are paramount. We also attach great importance to the discussions on transparency. Transparency of reporting is needed to monitor progress and to foster confidence. However, Belgium understands that some countries in a transitional phase in which they strengthen their capacities should be able to rely on a certain degree of flexibility. As regards common time frameworks, Belgium is in favour of five-year NDCs for all countries, as this provides the best guarantee for the proper functioning of the five-year cycle of ambition. As Chairman of COP26, the United Kingdom is making every effort to enable a normal physical climate conference to take place in November. Among other things, the United Kingdom offers vaccines to all COP26 participants. The safety of all participants and the local community is paramount.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic548x.u31	With a self-invented slogan "The longer the answer, the shorter the reply "I want to thank you for your answer." Especially the latter was good news to hear; I didn't know that yet. In the autumn we will undoubtedly hear more about COP.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic548x.u32	Madam Secretary, 3M has not been able to get rid of the news in recent weeks, due to the PFOS pollution it caused in Zwijndrecht and its surroundings. However, on 16 June, news site Apache also reported that 3M had been releasing huge amounts of heavy greenhouse gas for years. The Flemish government would have only recently detected this pollution and therefore revised the reporting. When my colleague Wouter De Vriendt asked you on 17 June, day after the announcement on Apache, whether it is true that there is a link between PFOS and greenhouse gas emissions, you replied that you were surprised at the huge quantities mentioned in the report. You were wondering how such high emissions relate to the non-ETS reduction targets for Flanders. That is why I have a few questions for you. In the meantime, have you been able to verify that Apache's news report is correct? Are 3M greenhouse gas emissions very high and revised over time? Are greenhouse gas emissions within the non-ETS, which means that the Flemish government is responsible for its costs and not the company 3M? Do these high greenhouse gas emissions make it difficult to achieve the climate targets? Has the 3M F-gas pollution been under the radar all these years and how is that possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic548x.u33	Mrs Buyst, after the publication of the report on the high and recently reported greenhouse gas emissions of 3M by the Flemish Region, I asked my administration for an analysis of the data at its disposal. I've received a report in the meantime. I can make it available. I'm getting four important findings out of it. It is true that greenhouse gas emissions of 3M have been revised upwards. According to the latest inventory, they amounted to 1.4 million tonnes of CO2 equivalents in 2019 or 34% of F-gas emissions in our country. In Belgium there are only a handful of companies that emit more than 1 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent greenhouse gases, namely a large steel plant, some refineries and petrochemicals companies. The fact that 3M remained under the radar in the public debate with these high greenhouse gas emissions may be due to the fact that it is covered by the non-ETS and its emissions figures do not appear in the ETS report, in which almost all major emitters can be found. It is therefore the Flemish Region that, through the cooperation agreement on the distribution of the Belgian climate and energy objectives, in the previous period 2013-2020, was responsible for the emissions of 3M, which fall under binding European emission reduction targets. A second finding in the report is the time course in this file. In the inventory reports from 2015 and 2016, it can be read that 3M already in 2014 came to the conclusion that F-gas emissions may have been underestimated. The reports in the following years until 2019 repeat that message. It is only in the 2020 inventory report that this presumption is confirmed by measurements. Suddenly the emissions for 2017 are estimated ten times higher, but also the emissions from all previous years until the base year 2005 are reviewed by the Flemish government. It is important to stress that such recalculations are permitted under international and European rules. A third finding is that the year of recalculation has a particularly significant impact on the emission allocation in the non-ETS sectors for the next period 2021-2030. Indeed, that emission allowance is calculated on the basis of a reduction path, where the endpoint is the base year 2005, reduced by a certain reduction rate, and the starting point, the average from the years 2016 to 2018. The suddenly higher reported emissions of 3M result in a higher reduction path for our country for the period 2021-2030, for both the starting point and the end point. According to my administration, between 6.5 and 6.8 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent emissions have been added for the period 2021-2030. In short, by reporting more pollution in 2020, there will be more pollution in the next period. Remarkably, the same does not apply to the greenhouse gas emissions statement for the period 2013-2017. Because this is done on the basis of the reporting of the year 2019, the old, much lower reported emission figures of 3M still apply there. This means that no allowances should be surrendered by the Flemish Region for the approximately 5 million tonnes of greenhouse gas emissions that 3M emitted during the period 2013-2017. You will not be surprised that I have been stunned by what the current rules on the reporting of greenhouse gas emissions make possible and how the reporting of emissions from a company engaged in an environmental scandal can have such a big impact. On the one hand, 5 million tonnes of greenhouse gas emissions flew into the air for which no allowances are surrendered. On the other hand, its reporting in a given year allows for more pollution in the following period. Together we are talking about 11 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent or the emissions of approximately the entire Belgian fleet in one year.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic548x.u34	Madam Secretary, I'm glad you took the matter right away. I understand from your reply that a report has been prepared by your administration on this rather technical matter. Mr President, it may be interesting to share that report among the various members of the committee. The Minister also pointed out that it could make it available. It is indeed about a rather technical matter. Many figures have been mentioned, but if I have noted it correctly, 3M emits 1.4 million CO2 equivalents in 2019. Those are huge amounts of F-gases emitted into our habitat. It is therefore almost impossible to understand that such a large 3M emission is only reported so late. I also understand from your reply that the proper reporting of emissions is also the responsibility of the Flemish authorities in this case, as these emissions are covered by non-ETS. While you indicate that the way of reporting has been allowed by Europe, we should not be faint about it: such loopholes in the system completely undermine the climate objectives. That will not help the climate issue. I am referring now to the question we had during the actua debate. You pointed out at that time in your reply that we need to work together to meet our climate objectives. Despite the alarming signs in our environment, we can still reverse the tide. However, we must take action now. I assume that large companies, such as 3M, but also all the governments of this country, will assume their responsibilities, and not through loopholes and backdoors in the systems are less ambitious in the climate battle.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic548x.u35	By 3 June 2021, all Member States of the European Union had to transpose the Directive of 5 June 2019 on the reduction of the effects of certain plastic products on the environment, the so-called single-use plastic product directive (SUP) into national law. I was assured a few months ago that the deadline would be respected, but in the meantime the royal decree has still not been published to my knowledge. How do you explain that the deadline was not met? The KB had to go through a series of steps, including the advice of the Federal Advisory Councils, the Finance Inspector and the Council of State. What are the opinions of these bodies? In what way were their comments taken into account? Has the Central Bank already received the approval of the Council of Ministers and when will the Central Bank be published?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic548x.u36	It is good that KB is working on it, as about half of all plastic waste in our sea comes from beverage and food packaging. Above all, we must avoid the packaging that is used outdoors and encourage reuse as much as possible. At the end of June, a number of environmental organisations sent a widespread note to the Prime Minister asking them to meet the targets for reusable packaging and also to ensure that one problem does not cause another problem. They also ask for the introduction of deposit money, a regional authority but on which there is a passage in the government agreement. Where are we on the transposition? We didn't make the deadline. What does that mean? What are the consequences of this? What deadline is realistic then? Do you recognise that targets are also being included to take into account reusable packaging, as France and Germany have done? What is the state of play for the introduction of the deposit? What else have you done?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic548x.u37	Mr President, the explanation for the delay lies in the need to implement the directive with discretion, including the necessary consultation with the various stakeholders. Moreover, the issue of the Royal Decree has been delayed for several months by the possibility of converting part of the Directive into a legislative proposal amending the Law of 21 December 1998 on product standards to promote sustainable patterns of production and consumption and to protect the environment, public health and workers, with a view to prohibiting the use of oxodegradable plastic products and certain other single use plastic products. In the end, that bill did not come into being, which meant that that part of the directive's transposition had to be incorporated into the Royal Decree. The European Union has already been informed of the delay. As indicated in my policy paper and the federal government agreement, I am currently working with my colleagues and in coordination with the Länder on a federal circular economy action plan to significantly reduce resource use and material footprint in production and consumption. Plastic is one of the spearheads in that federal action plan. It is important to tackle the problem at source. Firstly, we will eliminate all problematic and unnecessary plastic articles. We are doing this through the transposition of the European SUP Directive. We also focus in the circular action plan on reusability. Finally, in order to prevent a ban on single-use plastics resulting in a spillover to other single-use products, we are already preparing, together with the administration, a review of EU rules on packaging and packaging waste, examining how we can improve packaging designs for reuse and recycling, process more recycling material in packaging, avoid unnecessary packaging and reduce packaging waste. The development of a deposit system is, together with the Regions, a competence of my colleague, the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance, Vincent Van Peteghem.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic548x.u38	As for my first question, you are still in consultation. The file's been dragging on for too long. You should have switched there much faster. Because there is nothing yet, you cannot answer my third and fourth questions either. My second question is not an answer at all. I asked you what the advice of a number of advisory bodies was. That's not unimportant. The fact that you don't answer that also suggests the worst. For the sake of clarity, everyone is in favour of transposing the directive into Belgian law. Everyone is in favour of the fight against plastic soup. However, it is still unclear how far that KB will go. This leads to many interpretations, to legal uncertainty for companies. This morning in the press it is written that you and Ecolo, after all the bitter defeats of Ecolo in the many Vivaldi wars, such as closing the stations and Mrs Haouach's file, need a trophy. Hopefully this isn't the trophy you're being granted. It's about to become gold-plating. Don't make it a symbol file. There is no sustainable alternative for certain plastics today. That search is ongoing, and it takes some time. This time may well be granted, given the recent expansion of the PMD bags, which can result in the collection and recycling of much more plastics than before. Now work on that file. The sector is crying out for legal certainty.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic548x.u39	Of course, I agree with your answer in substance. Of course, there is little information about timing among other things. As the transposition is important, you will have to do something about it. However, I do not understand Mr Raskin's nervousness. He says it's important, then we should go for it. It is important that you think carefully about the spill-over. There is no point in creating new legislation and then creating new problems. I'll follow your lead. For the deposit issue, please refer to other federal ministers today. I will continue to ask questions about this, even if the decision is at regional level. It is important that there should also be a clear signal from the federal level that such a system should have existed in Belgium for a long time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic548x.u40	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, on June 14, you announced that you had signed the Circular & Fair ICT Pact (CFIT), an international pact put in place by the One Planet Network's Sustainable Public Procurement Program. In particular, the programme of the pact will aim at creating a network of buyers to encourage the emergence of a significant demand for ICT equipment, i.e. information and communication technology equipment, circular and ethical, and in doing so encourage producers to innovate and orient their production in an appropriate manner. Minister, can we be more informed about the initiatives to be taken by the federal government and federal governments under the TCF? Have a specific programme and deadlines been set? Can we also be informed of the means available by the federal government to carry out the tasks involved in participating in this pact? Have any contacts been made with your regional and foreign counterparts as well as with Belgian stakeholders in this regard? The CFIT programme mentions the establishment, during the third quarter of 2021, of a working group whose members will come from different partner countries and regions representing relevant areas of expertise, as well as an organizing committee composed of representatives of the partners, which will have to determine the overall strategy and budget, monitor progress and define additional objectives. Can we be informed of the progress of these tasks?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic548x.u41	Mr President, Mr Senesael, I announced that by 2021 I was going to embark on an ambitious procurement policy at the federal level. To help achieve this ambition, this year's focus will be on more sustainable ICT purchases. With regard to a group of products for which "ecological and human" economies of scale are likely to have a real impact only in a context of national and international harmonisation, I have considered it important to cooperate with local governments, Regions and countries such as the Netherlands, for example. The pooling of the purchasing power of different public services allows for greater influence on the CTI market. On 14 June I signed the Circular & Fair ICT Pact together with other representatives of international public authorities. In order to translate my commitment into concrete actions, I have commissioned the Federal Institute for Sustainable Development (IFDD) to set up a Belgian purchasing group bringing together the major ICT buyers of the public authorities. This group is currently examining how appropriate criteria and clauses can be incorporated into the TCI specifications. More than 60 Belgian buyers were present at the inaugural session on 26 March 2021. There were 75 of them at the second session on 29 March. Two more initiatives will follow after the summer. In the meantime, the Netherlands has also set up such a purchasing group, where 150 experts from around 90 organisations are working on the issue. Other countries are thinking about a similar initiative. An amount of EUR 14,200 has been set aside for the organization of the work of this procurement group. The Federal Institute for Sustainable Development is cooperating with ASBL CATAPA to do this. The group will produce a final report containing the recommendations for early next year. In order to give specific attention to the ethical issue of human rights and labour in the supply chain, I have also instructed IFDD to set up a European working group on ethics ICT. Eminent European researchers from the cities and regions of Austria, Sweden, Norway, Spain, the United Kingdom, Denmark, Finland, Italy and, of course, Belgium are working together in this working group. They explore the field and share experiences on identifying ethical aspects and opportunities for action by buyers. At the inaugural session on 10 March, as well as at the second working session on 13 April, 25 representatives were present. At the request of the participants, an additional session was added on 27 May. Two more meetings are planned after the summer. The resources available for this network amount to €22,263. IFDD cooperates with the ICLEI BSA to do this. A final report will be provided in early 2022. With regard to the federal power itself, I can point out that sustainability clauses have already been included in the procurement and leasing of PCs and laptops that was launched by the Ministry of Defence and awarded to Dell as early as 2018. I will ask my colleague, the Minister of Public Service, to re-introduce ambitious ecological, circulatory and ethical provisions into the new federal ICT framework contract based on the learning networks I have just mentioned. Representatives of Belgian federal and regional public services, including the Federal Institute for Sustainable Development, the Wallonia Public Service, Brussels Environment, the Flemish Authority and in particular the Department of Environment and the Vlaanderen Circulair Partnership, discussed how they could work together to implement the Circular & Fair ICT Pact in practice at Belgian level. In particular, they supported the drafting of the text and the establishment of working groups. Representatives of these services also meet regularly in a Belgian steering group. In Belgium, only experts from public authorities are involved, with a view to sharing confidential information on ongoing ICT procurement. The Belgian steering group agrees on the various Belgian work I have mentioned, as well as on the initiatives to be undertaken at international level within the framework of the Circular & Fair ICT Pact. Coordination of work at this level is currently in the hands of the Dutch public authorities, who will soon be assisted by a European secretariat. Coordination includes the establishment and harmonization of the different national ICT purchasing groups, the Ethics ICT Working Group and a future group of sustainable ICT criteria. The Belgian steering group monitors the Circular & Fair ICT Pact process at Belgian level. In this regard, the Walloon and Flemish authorities are examining how they could contribute to the functioning of the European Secretariat. For the federal level, I myself cleared the budgets I cited and asked for the commitment of the Federal Institute for Sustainable Development for 2021. The federal level and the Regions have not yet agreed on long-term commitments.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic548x.u42	Mr President, you are well aware that such a comprehensive, comprehensive and precise answer requires only a reflection on my part. It allows me first of all to welcome the initiatives that have been taken, the cooperation that has been put in place and the specific attention given to ethical law with adequate consultation. I would also like to highlight the action and work of the IFDD. Minister, thank you for your response.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic548x.u43	Minister, published in June 2021 by the WHO, the report "Children and digital landfills: exposure to waste electrical and electronic equipment and children's health" provides an estimate of the extent of pollution due to electronic waste and its dangers to the health of children, adolescents, pregnant women and the fetus – mainly in Asia, Africa and Central America. The volumes of production and disposal of electronic equipment show a certain increase. A considerable part of the electronic waste we generate is being exported illegally, mainly to the above continents. The report indicates that nearly 13 million women work in the informal electronic waste sector and that more than 18 million children and adolescents make up the informal industrial sector, whose waste treatment is a subsector. The exposure of women to electronic waste presents real health risks, which are also incurred by the foetus in case of exposure of the mother. In addition, children exposed to these wastes are particularly vulnerable to the toxic chemicals they contain. Madam Minister, in January 2021, you told me that "the fight against electronic waste enters the government as part of a broader policy of waste reduction and resource efficiency" and announced that "in consultation with (your) federal colleagues, a plan on the circular economy" should be proposed. Can we be informed of the status of this plan? Can we obtain information on the specific measures to combat e-waste envisaged under this plan? In your policy note, you mentioned "the future initiative that will expand the scope of the Ecodesign Directive, whose announced initiatives will include limiting the use of certain dangerous substances in electrical and electronic equipment". Can we get some information about our country's commitments in this regard and, more generally, about reducing the use of hazardous substances in ICT equipment?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic548x.u44	Mr Senesael, a draft plan has been drawn up with my administration and that of the Economy. It is currently subject to consultation for the opinions of the Regions and stakeholders, via the CFFD and the CCE. A final draft should thus be available for the month of September before being submitted to the Council of Ministers. The management of electronic waste is primarily the responsibility of the Regions. The design of products, a federal and European prerogative, can, however, have a positive effect, by extending their lifespan and thereby reducing waste. Much of the action that will be taken to combat electronic waste will be taken at European level, in particular as part of the future legislative initiative on sustainable products, which is expected by the end of the year. This initiative will expand the scope of the current Ecodesign Directive, cover products other than those related to energy and incorporate circulatory criteria. This means, in practice, that criteria will be established to make the products easier to repair, to be updated more easily or to allow their components and materials to be reused. All this indirectly leads to a reduction in the volume of waste. The Belgian positions negotiated with the European Union in this context will be driven by my administration. At the federal level, the draft plan aims to introduce an index of "repairability" for various electrical and electronic products, as already in force in France. An analysis of different waste streams, including electrical and electronic waste streams, has also been carried out in recent years. The aim was to examine what, in terms of product design, could be detrimental to product recycling. Product standards, to be valued mainly from a European perspective, could also be derived from the lessons learned from these analyses. The future Sustainable Products Initiative, which will expand the scope of the Ecodesign Directive, will not be presented by the Commission until the end of the year. In this context, we will ensure that future products are designed safely and that this safety is guaranteed throughout their life cycle, including in the "waste" phase. We will also urge that the substances of greatest concern be replaced in consumer articles, with a preference for substitution where possible. The RoHS Directive, which regulates exceptions for hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment, will also be reviewed in the coming years.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic548x.u45	Minister, thank you for your answer. I will quote Coluche, who said, "The doors of the future are open to those who know how to push them." Don't hesitate to push them, Minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic548x.u46	After Mr Senesael's words, let me come back to the facts and the dry reality. Madam Minister, on 11 May 2021, you stated in this committee that the federal action plan for a circular economy was still in preparation, but would in any case be based on five objectives: to stimulate the marketing of circular products and services, to encourage more circularity in production methods, to support the role of consumers and public customers and to provide incentives and tools. You also announced that you would work out a recovery index to be reported on electrical and electronic devices, as well as laying down criteria for the use of switched on components, etc. You also announced that you would work on strengthening information in the entire value chains to contribute to the European work on the product passport. In any case, the Minister, the Belgian employers and the sector federations concerned are not silent. They presented five concrete ambitions a few weeks ago to achieve their vision for 2030 within a European framework. These include ambitions in terms of availability of materials, circular utility models, lead in the high-quality recovery of materials, etc. What is the status of this federal action plan? Has the draft plan already been delivered to the regions and stakeholders? What are the reactions? To what extent do you already have a discussion with the Regions about the lack of common policy objectives? Was this already discussed on the intra-Belgian Platform Circular Economy? In what areas will the Action Plan focus on sustainability and circularity in public procurement? What is your response to the presentation by Belgian employers of the ambitions I have listed in the area of circular economy? To what extent will your action plan contribute to this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic548x.u47	The federal design plan for a circular economy is currently for consultation with the Regions and stakeholders. On the basis of the opinions given, a new version of the draft plan will be finalised and presented to the Council of Ministers in September. With regard to the definition of a policy orientation at national level, I will ask my regional colleagues to work together to change the approach of the intra-Belgian Platform Circular Economy and to formalise a clear mandate. The definition of common objectives may then be among the issues discussed by the Platform. More sustainability in public procurement is currently being coordinated by my colleague Petra De Sutter, responsible for Civil Service cases, and myself. The aspects related to circular economy will be as well integrated as possible. I appreciate that the VBO, together with the federations concerned, has developed a vision of circular economy. Indeed, I think it is important that we live up to our ambitions in consultation with the private sector, because the transition requires a joint effort in which every stakeholder has a key role to play. My cabinet and my administration will carry out an in-depth analysis of the proposals made in the context of that vision, as well as the opinions of the Regions, the Federal Council for Sustainable Development and the Central Council for Business.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic548x.u48	Madam Minister, this is yet another dossier in this Committee on Energy, the Environment and the Climate that is yet to land. Everything is moving very slowly, you may be frustrated about that. Apparently everything remains for consultation and we are talking again about the magical month of September. September is every time in this Parliament a magical month in which everything will be resolved and everything will end up in a funnel. I also note that you want to change the layout of the intra-Belgian Platform. Those are all intentions, too. We will see whether you will succeed in this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic548x.u49	Minister, on January 12, 2021, I asked you about the report "Non-exhaust Specific Emissions from Road Transport" of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) published on December 7, 2020. As a reminder, this report noted that approximately 70% of the fine particles emitted by thermally driven vehicles are due to the wear of brakes, tires and road coverings. It also stipulated that emissions from this type of phenomenon could increase due to the estimated increase in demand for urban passenger movements, which is expected to double by 2050. Madam Minister, in response to my questions, you indicated to me that the discussions on the revision of Euro standards were to begin in 2021 and formulated the project of "supporting an ambitious framework for non-exhaust emissions and encouraging the development of solutions to reduce these emissions" in consultation with your colleague from Mobility and your relevant regional colleagues. Can we be informed of the progress made in this regard as well as of the initiatives envisaged? Can we get information about the schedule for this file? In addition, you also highlighted your project to "support at European level the development of an ambitious framework for non-exhaust emissions and to encourage the development of solutions to reduce them". Do you have any news about this? Finally, the OECD report mentions a series of policy responses to this issue. You announced that you would wait until you had analysed these answers before deciding. Can we also get your feedback on these elements?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic548x.u50	Mr Senesael, in addition to my January reply, and according to the latest information provided by the Commission, the proposal for a revision of the Euro standards should be released at the earliest in October. This proposal aims to revise the emission standards for pollutant gases for new vehicles downwards. In its impact assessment, the Commission assessed the option of including standards for non-exhaust emissions. My services have also expressed their support for this option to the Commission during the consultation phases. For my part, once on the table, I will support that this new regulation also tackles tire and brake emissions to ensure that specific pollution from all sources is reduced to the lowest possible levels. At Belgian level, the CCFIE expert group will be in charge of coordinating the Belgian position on these issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic548x.u51	Madam Minister, thank you for your additional information regarding your response last January. I'll take note of that. As this is my last question before the holidays, I wish you, Mr President, Madam Minister, a good holiday. After quoting Coluche and depending on all the questions that have been asked, I remind you that, according to Confucius, "he who moves a mountain begins by moving small stones".
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic548x.u52	Thank you, Mr. Senesael. It's fun!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic548x.u53	And we wish you a good holiday too!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic548x.u54	July 14th is not only the French national holiday. Tomorrow is also the holiday of Mr Timmermans. He will then present his Fit for 55-Package. We must have known. There have been many reports in the Flemish, and I suspect in the French-speaking press too, in which a run-up to what is coming towards us is being made. I like to put it that way. I'm talking about us as modal citizens. In this aperitif discussion on Fit for 55, I shall confine myself to the system of marketable allowances and their reform. Emissions trading works with a price incentive. The scarcity of emission rights is pushing up the price, forcing companies to look for less polluting alternatives. The aim is to extend the system at European level to include transport and buildings. We are already reading that in that scenario fuel distributors are very likely to pass on the cost of their allowances to the final consumer, which will lead to higher prices at the pump and for heating. This could increase social inequality in the EU. The European Commission does want to use half of the revenues from emissions trading in transport and buildings for social compensation through a social climate fund, but Joost may know what that means in concrete terms. Unclearness is a trump card. Madam Minister, for the carbon pricing of transport and buildings last month, I can quote your press release, it was the literal reflection of your reply in committee that the necessary caution should be taken as long as no social guarantees have been developed. Can you explain more about the European Commission's intention to set up a social climate fund to compensate for the possible or even foreseeable negative social consequences of carbon pricing in transport and buildings? What is the follow-up to the review of a number of European instruments at European and Belgian level in the light of the 2030 target of the "R &amp; D55 %"? Tomorrow we get the presentation of 12 cases in the framework of the Fit for 55-Package. What will happen at European and Belgian level as part of the follow-up?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic548x.u55	Mr Ravyts, I share your concern about the priority to be given to the social dimension when examining the new initiatives expected from the European Commission in the context of the Fit for 55-Package and in particular the possible extension of the ETS to the buildings and transport sectors. Solidarity will be a key element in the forthcoming negotiations, both between and within Member States, in order to avoid or compensate for negative redistributing effects and energy poverty. To address these concerns, the European Commission is considering setting up a social facility for climate action, which would be financed by 20% of ETS revenues. The modalities of that facility would be based on the model of the recovery and resilience facility set up under the European Recovery Plan, a distribution of resources based on national plans introduced by Member States, in accordance with the integrated national energy and climate plans. Member States would be called upon to co-finance these funds up to 50%. Three main categories of funding are planned: infrastructure, investment programmes and individual grants. At this stage it is only a first proposal from the Commission, which will have to be negotiated at Council level. With regard to the negotiation process on the different legislative elements of the Fit for 55-Package, the Slovenian Presidency of the Council of the EU communicated an indicative timetable of Council meetings between 1 July and 31 December 2021. Four key elements of the Fit for 55-Package - effort sharing, ETS, CO2 emissions from cars and LULUCF - will be the subject of an initial exchange of views at the Environment Council meeting on 6 October. These various elements will have already been presented by the Commission and discussed in the preparatory working groups. Other important elements of the Green Deal, such as the Directives on renewable energy, energy efficiency and energy performance of buildings, the new strategies for forestry, industry, farm to fork and methane, the carbon adjustment mechanism at the CBAM border, the review of the Energy Taxation Directive or the initiatives on carbon farming and alternative fuels for air and sea traffic are also on the agenda of the various Council formations over the next six months, which promise to be very busy, and beyond, as the legislative work will continue in the coming year. It is, of course, essential that Belgium be present and active in these debates. To this end, we must prepare the Belgian positions openly, taking into account the existing procedures and involving all the departments concerned, both at federal and regional level. In the recent past, Belgium was too often without a vote in the European consultation, because it was unable to develop a Belgian position on which there was consensus. I am counting on everyone's sense of responsibility to avoid that happening again and to ensure that Belgium can play a constructive role in this important round of negotiations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic548x.u56	Madam Minister, I would like to thank you for going into more detail on the indicative timetable and for setting out what is already known about the climate fund. It will, among other things, have to be co-financed by the Member States for 50%, which will require a lot of debate. I also appeal to you, Mr President. I believe that there should also be a feedback to the committee on the Fit for 55 package in the autumn, so that we keep our finger on what is happening at European level, because that will have a major impact on citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic548x.u57	We will.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic548x.u58	Madam Vice-President, you have a question and you will continue the presidency for five minutes, until I return. I have to leave you for about ten minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic548x.u59	Minister, on Wednesday 16 June Belgium acceded to the Charter on plastics in the oceans. You welcomed this decision, which was also formally acted upon by the Prime Minister. This document was prepared on the margins of the G7 summit in June 2018 in Quebec. The United Kingdom, France, Italy, Germany and the EU joined, but not the United States and Japan. Since then, the "family" has grown and our country has joined 26 other governments, as well as 70 companies and civil society organisations. Much work remains to be done to broaden this group, on the one hand, but also – and perhaps above all – to translate the determination expressed in this way into our environmental policy, on the other. In this regard, you have once again expressed your willingness and confirmed your intention "to act in line with the European Union's strategy on plastics and to ambitiously transpose EU regulatory directives, in particular on the single use of plastics". As you know, on this last point, I initiated a bill that extended that will to plastic bags. Could you please tell me what the practical implications of this accession are for Belgium? What actions do you intend to take in this context? Furthermore, I would like to know what progress has been made in transposing the European SUP Directive, which should have been implemented on 3 July. How long do you think the royal decree will be published? Will it be limited to the strict transposition of the original text or will it be more ambitious, like the proposal for a law that my group has initiated, via my colleague Malik Ben Achour?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic548x.u60	Dear colleague, the current approach to the use and management of plastic disposal poses a major threat to our environment and potentially to human health. It also represents a significant loss of value, resources and energy. Belgium is committed to a more effective and sustainable approach to the management of plastics. We are committed to a life-cycle approach that aims to avoid the unnecessary use of plastics, to prevent waste and to ensure that essential plastics are designed to be recovered, reused, recycled and managed at the end of life in order to avoid waste. The European Green Pact and its Action Plan for a Circular Economy and the European Sustainable Products Initiative are the main basis for our actions in this area. The aim is to have more circular products, but also, more generally, more sustainable ones, by reducing the speed of the inflow of natural resources and pollutant discharges into nature throughout the life cycle. To date, 27 governments and 75 private companies and civil society organizations have endorsed the Ocean Plastics Charter. The partners in this charter are committed to adopting a more efficient approach to resource use and throughout the life cycle of plastics. Providing ambitious guidelines, the Charter supports the actions and achievements of States and signatories in the broader pursuit of Sustainable Development Goals 12 (SDG 12) (ensuring sustainable consumption and production patterns) and 14 (SDG 14) (conserving and making sustainable use of oceans, seas and marine resources) and the objectives of the United Nations, while encouraging States to use their own monitoring mechanisms to assess their progress. Noting our commitment to combat plastic pollution and other forms of pollution in the marine environment, our intention to act in line with the European Union's strategy on plastics and to ambitiously transpose the European Union Commission's regulatory directives, Belgium has decided to join the Charter on plastics in the oceans and thus to help build a world free of plastic pollution. With regard to the transposition of the European directive on SUPs (single use plastics), the draft royal decree is still being discussed in intercabinet. We hope that we can pass it on to the Council of Ministers before the summer, for publication in September. I had blocked the Royal Order because of the bill of Parliament brought by your group, as you pointed out, amending the law of 21 December 1998 relating to the number of products. As the draft did not finally materialise, this part of the transposition of the Directive had to be included in the Royal Decree. The European Union has been informed of this delay. The draft decree is more ambitious than a simple transposition without, however, leading to overtransposition or gold plating according to European standards, but the level of ambition is still under discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic548x.u61	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. The question of the fight against plastics and their sometimes crucial impact on species and on our natural resources is a key element of the policy that we want to see carried out in Belgium. You can therefore continue to count on my group and myself to feed you and Parliament on this subject. I assume that my colleague Malik Ben Achour will not hesitate to continue to ask you on the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic548x.u62	Madam President, Madam Minister, you have recently met with the Italian Ambassador, Francesco Genuardi, for the pre-COP26 to be held in Milan from 30 September to 2 October 2021. The aim of this Italian initiative is to prepare COP26 but also to involve young people, civil society, the business world, academia, local authorities and institutions in the reflection on climate issues. From 28 to 30 September 2021, Milan will also host an event entitled Youth4Climate: Driving Ambition which will allow 400 young people from the 197 countries participating in COP26 to exchange and formulate concrete proposals on climate change issues. These proposals will be presented to the pre-COP ministers and negotiators before being submitted to COP26.Madam Minister, could you take stock of the meeting with the Italian Ambassador? What does it show? At this meeting, you pointed out that the links that unite our countries are an opportunity for privileged collaboration for COP26. Can you clarify whether there are currently privileged climate collaborations with Italy? More generally, what can be Belgium's complementary contribution in the context of pre-COP? Have the young Belgians who will participate in the Youth4Climate: Driving Ambition event already been selected? On the basis of what criteria has been or will be selected? How many young Belgians will participate in this event?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic548x.u63	Madam President, Mr Bombled, the Italian ambassador has been stationed in Belgium since April 2021 and, at his request, he paid me a courtesy visit on Wednesday, July 7, 2021. The context of Italian immigration to Belgium has been mentioned in view of the 75th anniversary of the so-called "coal agreements" between our two countries, and that is what I was referring to as regards the links between our two countries. As regards climate, we have dealt with the European and international context, but without going into the details of certain issues. That wasn't the purpose of the meeting. Like Belgium, Italy attaches great importance to cooperation with African countries, including on climate and climate finance. We discussed the opportunity that the Green Deal represents for Europe, as well as the facilities for recovery and resilience. Italy has benefited from the Fund of approximately EUR 240 billion and is planning around EUR 70 billion for the green transition, the contours of which can be defined by the Italian minister responsible for the ecological transition. Of course, we support Italy in its preparations for COP26 in partnership with the United Kingdom. Italy will organise the pre-COP in Milan from 30 September to 2 October 2021. Thirty to forty countries will be invited to participate. A priority for the Italians, which you mentioned, is to involve young people in climate policy, which I applaud. Italy has indeed decided to organise, before the pre-COP, a youth conference entitled Youth4Climate: Driving Ambition. We did not discuss the details of the selection process at our meeting. However, I can tell you that the aim is to achieve a balanced composition with the participation of two representatives from each of the 197 parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, which also takes into account a gender balance. Young people between the ages of 15 and 29 could apply. The selection was made in accordance with United Nations procedures and in collaboration with a specific advisory committee for the conference. The advisory committee includes representatives of the Government and civil society from Italy and the United Kingdom, the UNFCCC secretariat, the Office of the United Nations Special Envoy for Youth and representatives of young people themselves. The Member States were not involved in the selection. I am glad, in any case, that two young Belgians will have the opportunity to participate in the conference.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic548x.u64	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. The objective of the Milan pre-COP will be to provide an informal forum for a selected group of countries, including Belgium, which we welcome, to discuss and exchange views on key political aspects of the negotiations and to provide political guidance for subsequent negotiations. It is a great opportunity for our country to make its voice heard. As regards the participation of young people in the Youth4Climate: Driving Ambition, I understand that it is the result of a selection made on the basis of an international competition, but it is a very good thing that two young Belgians will be able to participate in this preparatory meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic548x.u65	Mr President, Minister, on 18 June you put yourself once again in the spotlight, together with Minister Kitir, to increase the federal contribution to international climate finance. Small problem, however, because this is not an increase in the EUR 12 million per year entered in the budget, but simply a double announcement of the same EUR 12 million, which was already committed. An amount that's grossly inadequate. That brings me to the big problem. The 12 million euros per year is far too little compared to the fair share that Belgium has to contribute to international climate financing as a historic contributor. Civil society has calculated that this contribution should be at least EUR 500 million per year. Since there is no longer a Belgian commitment to international climate finance after 2020, a federal contribution of EUR 12 million is very inadequate. I have the following questions for you. Why are you doing a double announcement policy? Why such a low federal contribution to international climate finance compared to needs? Is there any prospect of a new agreement on the Belgian contribution to international climate finance with a view to COP26? Will you ensure that Belgium contributes its fair share of €500 million a year, on top of the Development Cooperation budget, to international climate finance?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic548x.u66	Mr President, Mrs Daems, on 18 June, Minister Kitir and I informed ourselves that the Council of Ministers agreed to our proposal to redistribute the interdepartmental climate finance commission. We didn't announce any additional resources that day. In October last year, the federal government decided to mobilise an additional 12 million euros annually from 2021 through an interdepartmental commission. This was implemented at the above-mentioned Council of Ministers by means of a proposal for redistribution. In particular, this involves a reallocation of EUR 12 million of credit from the interdepartmental commission "New policy/climate financing' of the 2021 budget to the basic allocation "Multilateral cooperation in the context of international climate policy financing'. This additional climate funding aims to support Belgian partner countries in a cross-cutting strengthening of their climate policy, coupled with the implementation of climate-specific actions in the following areas: sustainable management of biodiversity and ecosystems, resilient and climate-intelligent agriculture, and sustainable urban socio-economic growth. When the funds are effectively allocated to a specific project or programme, I will also communicate transparently on this issue, together with Minister Kitir. Under the Paris Agreement, developed countries have accepted to lead the mobilisation of international climate finance. This can be achieved through a multitude of sources of funding, channels or actions. This commitment was implemented through the 100 billion target by 2020. The latest OECD figures for 2018 suggest that we are not on a path to achieving this objective. The federal government's commitment is clear: we want to respect the commitments under the Paris Agreement and increase the federal contribution in the light of the international objective, regardless of the budget for development cooperation. In the government's lap, I am working on a further increase in the federal contribution on top of the already decided EUR 12 million. In parallel, we need to discuss a new intra-Belgian cooperation agreement. These talks should be used to increase Belgian climate finance ambition. Each entity shall assume its responsibility and contribute to the international objective. The Walloon Region leads these talks at Belgian level within the context of the National Climate Commission. It is still too early for me to assess where these talks will land.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic548x.u67	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. It is still a double policy on announcements, and we cannot support that. It is anything but funny, for those who need the money, to hear that something extra is coming, but that it does not turn out to be the case. Furthermore, I think that the punishment that you put on top of it in your press release is that the government is already taking responsibility for this commitment of EUR 12 million. I'm sorry, but with such statements, you're just laughing at the developing countries in their faces. I am disappointed that the agreement on a new Belgian commitment is so long overdue. After all, you said in November last year that you would do so as soon as possible. Today you say again that you are working on it, but in the meantime we are seven months away, while there is still no agreement. It is high time that Belgium fulfilled its promise from the Paris agreement to contribute honestly to international climate finance. Together with the organisations in the field, we will continue to work for this. Belgium has an immense responsibility to help the poor countries in the South to adapt to the effects of our emissions. They are the first to get it on their plate, although they have barely contributed to the problem themselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic548x.u68	Madam Minister, a few weeks ago, the European Parliament adopted a European climate law. In it, the European Union set its target of a net reduction of 55% by 2030 and climate neutrality by 2050. You mentioned that as an important step towards achieving the green transition. However, that climate law is not in line with your creed on a science-based climate policy. Both Climate Action Tracker and the latest UN GAP report indicate that European targets, enshrined in the climate law, are not in line with the Paris agreement to limit global warming to below 2°C by the end of the century. In addition, the conclusions of a new IPCC climate report were published, before the EU climate law was voted on. They contain the clear message that the objective of the Paris Agreement is not enough to save humanity from a complete climate change. If we want another chance to halt the climate crisis, we need to limit global warming to a maximum of 1.5 °C by the end of the century; according to the current projections, we could cross that limit by 2025, if we do not radically change climate policy. Madam Minister, how can you welcome a climate law with an objective that is much lower than what is necessary according to science and at the same time claim that you are pursuing a science-based policy?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic548x.u69	Mrs Daems, the federal government fully supports the new European reduction target of at least 55% by 2030. It is an increase in ambition of more than one third, compared to the old European target of 40 per cent. This increase in ambition could only be supported by Belgium after a great deal of consultation; moreover, the Flemish Government remains on the level to this day. In this unfavourable national context, it is currently the maximum achievable, but I will continue to work for the successful realization of this, with the aim of exceeding that. The European objective sets a lower limit, but not an upper limit. Don't forget that the current 2020 target of 20 per cent is also well surpassed by Europe. Similarly, the 2030 target is at least 55%. The word "minimum" is important. Climate science recommends staying well below 2°C. That objective is still within reach. This is also indicated by the Climate Action Tracker in its assessment of the minimum target of 5,5%. The independent organisation indicates that a strong Fit for 55 package can fully align this objective with the Paris climate agreement. I will continue to work for this in the coming months, so that the federal level will continue to build on an ambitious European and national climate policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic548x.u70	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. You simply cannot scientifically justify your support for an insufficient target of 55% emissions reduction by 2030. If you do not believe me, listen to your fellow party members in the European Parliament. They voted against the EU climate law, which you welcome again. The reason is that the objectives of that law do not correspond to what science considers necessary. According to the Commission, the EU climate target should not be as high as 55% by 2030 but as high as 65% by 2030. Moreover, your colleagues in the European Parliament are right to point out that the reduction target of 55% is not even 55%, but a reduction of 52.8 %. After all, the EU allows many accounting tricks to achieve on paper the objective of "really" 55% without actually doing so. We have been complaining about this since December, when the Council reached agreement on this objective. I am glad that the Green Members in the European Parliament have finally seen the light of day. I recommend that you listen to them and draw your conclusions on your climate policy and that of the European Union.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic548x.u71	Madam Minister, over the past year, the price of an allowance under the European Emissions Trading System (EU Emissions Trading System) has almost doubled to EUR 50. Electricity producers are covered by that ETS and therefore have to purchase allowances for the emission of their electricity production. That price doubling of emission allowances is now pushing electricity prices up because the producers simply pass on the price increase. Consumers who have finished contracts will thus face a particularly unpleasant surprise in the search for a new contract. Do you still think that the ETS is an efficient instrument for reducing emissions? Why is that? Why is that? What should be done to ensure that the ETS does not increase energy poverty and social inequality? Are you and the government planning to take measures to curb electricity prices from the ETS?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic548x.u72	Mrs Daems, your question is quite similar to a question you raised in the previous committee on the same subject. I will therefore briefly take up the most important elements of the answer, especially since we will only know tomorrow's proposals with the European Commission on the reform of the EU ETS, and then the debate will really start. The EU ETS puts a price on pollution in electricity production. The cost of electricity production from carbon-neutral sources, for example from own production using solar panels or through a supplier, is not, in principle, affected by the price increase of emission allowances in the EU ETS. That's a first way to avoid that price increase. This is precisely what we are trying to do: push dirty electricity production from brown-burning or coal out of the market and increase it from renewable sources. That is exactly what we can observe in the European electricity market. Together with the price increases in the EU ETS, dirty electricity production is rapidly decreasing. This is also a good thing for air quality and public health. The revenues from allowances flow back to the Member States. It is up to them to use these resources for citizens or businesses which nevertheless bear a disproportionate or undesirable burden. In our country, we are still waiting for a cooperation agreement to regulate the distribution of resources. Most of the funds flowed to the regions in previous periods. For the years to come, however, I support the commitment in the federal government agreement to reduce the federal share of the electricity bill and introduce the energy standard, which will follow the price and also, where necessary, adjust it. More specifically, I will work in the government and at national level to ensure that existing or new revenues from CO2 pricing at European level are also used for targeted social compensation in order to organise the fair transition.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic548x.u73	Madam Minister, we clearly disagree on this. For us, it is clear that the ETS has little or no effect on electricity producers' emissions. They simply charge the cost of purchasing the allowances in full to the consumer, who will have to pay the bill. The result is not a climate gain, but a social massacre. Mr Verduyckt just said in the topical debate on the climate issue that all environmental economists agree that carbon tarification is a solution to the climate problem. I think now is the ideal time to respond to that. From the climate movement on the ground I hear many more questions about solutions outside the market, because market mechanisms such as the ETS or a carbon tax are antisocial and benefit neither man nor the planet. Contrary to what Mr Verduyckt said, we always put forward solutions. We are calling for binding emission standards by sector from the outset and for the creation of a public climate investment bank. For example, the major polluters bear the burden of climate transition and are not passed on to citizens. I simply note that all the other parties choose to remain deaf to solutions that do not fall within the sacred market.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic548x.u74	Madam Minister, next week the European Commission is proposing its Fit for 55 package, which includes a review of the EU Emissions Trading System. For months now, there has been speculation from all sides about extending the ETS to the buildings and transport sectors. A leaked proposal from the European Commission confirmed this at the end of June 2021. These sectors would be subject to a separate ETS from 2025, despite the inherent social risks and a much lower emission reduction than binding standards can achieve. This puts European citizens at risk of being hit hard in the wallet, while major polluters remain out of sight. The most vulnerable people are also the first and most affected. After all, they cannot help that our transport system is based on fossil propulsion and individual vehicle ownership; that is the responsibility of governments and the fossil industry. They can't help it if their landlord doesn't want to make their home energy-efficient, causing their heating to emit a lot. With an ETS or a carbon pricing for transport and heating, they are only pushed deeper into transport and energy poverty. We should not be ignorant about this; it is not because citizens are not taxed directly but because fuel suppliers impose an emission trading system, which will ultimately not end up with consumers. After all, we all know that the fuel industry will send the invoice to the end user in its entirety. This leaves even less money to invest in the sustainability of its transport and housing, thus slowing down the green cover. So I have a few questions. Does the government support this proposal from the European Commission? Why is that? Why is that? What position will you defend for Belgium in the Council on the possible extension of the ETS to buildings and transport?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic548x.u75	Mrs Daems, you are asking us to support a proposal that we do not know yet. After all, it will only be published on Wednesday 14 July 2021. We will study it and it will take time to arrive at a federal and hopefully national position. At the moment, I can only give you a few factual elements which provide some answers to your questions. The difference in fuel consumption of the buildings or transport sectors is not limited to families. For transport, almost half is related to road freight transport, but also to inland waterways. For buildings, of course, it also concerns offices and premises, where a lot of fuel oil or natural gas is consumed. When the energy consumption of buildings or vehicles is electric, which means that the energy production is also in the ETS, the image is more nuanced than what you are sketching. The federal position is that, in order to make buildings and transport climate neutral, we rely primarily on standards. We expect a lot of the enhanced CO2 standards for vehicle manufacturers, which are expected to regulate the phasing-out of petrol and diesel cars by 2035. Affordable clean vehicles and charging infrastructure will come within reach by regulation under Fit for 55. Carbon pricing is an additional and necessary impulse, which ensures that climate solutions are the most advantageous and thus direct investment or purchase choices. It also generates resources to implement a social climate policy. Richer households consume more domestic and motor fuels than average. With CO2 pricing, they contribute to their consumption which can be used to isolate homes or provide collective transport for vulnerable families. It is precisely for this reason that we are examining with attention the proposals of the European Commission, especially the proposals on the Social Fund.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic548x.u76	Madam Minister, we are also, of course, looking forward to the presentation of the Fit for 55 package. Extending the ETS to transport and buildings is, in our view, a very bad idea. After all, the ETS is generally less effective than binding standards to reduce emissions. I would like to quote from De Tijd of the past weekend: 'The emissions trading system has not reduced CO2 emissions by a nanogram in the past'. Including buildings and transport in the ETS is also very counter-productive and anti-social, as it affects people directly in the wallet through higher fuel prices. If you want the yellow shirts back on the street, you should do so. For us, it is clear that we can only achieve a socially just and effective climate change in these sectors through binding standards for the major polluters.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic548x.u77	Mr President, Minister, according to the latest report by the National Climate Commission, preliminary bilateral talks are currently under way by the current Presidency of the National Climate Commission, in the hands of Minister Henry's cabinet. On the other hand, there are voices in this House calling for that exercise to be fully completed before the start of the COP in Glasgow. However, that timing seems to me to be rather sharp. What is the current timeline for reaching an agreement in this area? What steps are planned for the COP on Burden Sharing? When will the effective discussions with the four entities start?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic548x.u78	Mr President, Mr Wollants, your question has been raised several times in this committee. The answer is still the same. The four climate ministers expressed the ambition to reach a political agreement on the division of effort before the Glasgow Climate Summit. The Walloon climate minister currently has the presidency of the NKC and has a round of bilateral talks on it. He is now awaiting the European Commission's proposals on the Fit for 55 package. After all, these proposals will drastically change the chalk lines within which an agreement has to be reached, not least because the binding non-ETS reduction target for our country is being revised upwards. On the basis of these new elements, the President announced that he would come forward with proposals for negotiations in September. It will not be easy to reach an agreement in the next two months, but the federal government will deliver its share of the work in time. We are now mapping out the measures to make our powers more than our contribution to the climate objectives, including in the areas of emission reductions, renewable energy and climate finance.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic548x.u79	Madam Secretary, I look forward to the effective start of negotiations on this subject. I have had the honour and pleasure of being on the National Climate Commission when negotiations for the previous package began. It's lasted a little over nine years. So two months is sharp. We must do so as soon as possible. It doesn't help anyone to stretch it too long. Everyone will benefit from making a good deal. That will be the big challenge for the four negotiators.
