ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic559x.u1	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, my question is about visiting people in a sustainable relationship. The corona crisis has long weighed heavily on couples with a long-distance relationship. Thousands of couples couldn't see each other because the boundaries were closed or because they were unmarried. Since 1 September 2020, Belgium has introduced a relaxation for those concerned. In particular, it was decided that foreign partners could once again cross the border to see their loved ones, as long as they could provide proof of a lasting, stable relationship. Since then, travel within the framework of a sustainable and stable relationship has been defined as an essential displacement. Now, however, it appears that the rules have changed again. If the partner with whom someone has a sustainable and stable relationship lives in a high-risk country and therefore does not actually live together, then the principle no longer applies that the journey is an essential movement. For many, that is yet another heavy blow. I'm getting a lot of emails about that, and I'm sure you will, too, I suppose. I would therefore like to ask you the following questions. Firstly, are you aware of the problem? Secondly, why was the measure introduced? Thirdly, why is a distinction made between actually cohabiting partners and, in fact, non-living partners who, however, are in an equally sustainable relationship? Fourthly, are there any plans to amend that scheme?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic559x.u2	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, my question is somewhat different from Mrs Van Bossuyt's question, but it is certainly related to it. I'm talking about equally poignant situations. There is, on the one hand, the generic entry ban for non-essential travel for non-EU citizens, with an exception for humanitarian reasons. This is for compelling medical reasons, the continuation of urgent medical treatment and the provision of assistance or care to an older minor disabled person or a vulnerable person. On the other hand, there are countries with a very high risk which can also benefit from an exception. An exception that is built in is the compelling humanitarian reasons. A certificate of compelling humanitarian reasons shall be issued by the Belgian diplomatic or consular post and shall be approved by the Department of Foreign Affairs. I had asked Minister Wilmès my question at first. However, my question has been referred to you. In concrete terms, I have come into contact with the situation by the brother-in-law of an acquaintance of mine. This young man is palliative, lives in Belgium but comes from South Africa. His parents would like to come to Belgium to say goodbye to their son and to assist him. A very human question, I think. They put that question to the consulate and they were constantly bumping into a njet. They have submitted various issues, referred to the Foreign Affairs website and also contacted you with various ministers, I understood. In the end, my knowledge has told me that their question will be answered, but I would like to ask you this question, because of course she has had an enormous suffering. My question is whether you can explain more about these compelling humanitarian reasons as set out in Article 21 (2) of the Ministerial Decision. How should that be interpreted? In the case of authorised travel for humanitarian reasons, Annex 3 states 'aiding or caring', to which I have just referred. Is it true that a person in palliative phase falls under the category of vulnerable persons? It is cynical that if the person dies, the parents should be allowed to travel, but not to say goodbye to their palliative child. How can we ensure that people in such situations are allowed an exception to the entry ban? Can there be any objection to such a decision by a consulate? What instructions do embassies receive to interpret this rule? Can that be clarified? Finally, I would like to add my voice to what Mr Van Bossuyt said. Yesterday I came into contact with a similar situation of a young couple who has been together since 2017, so people with a long relationship. The girl is also palliative and has now, on 12 July, had to come to Belgium from Mexico as a matter of urgency. Her partner would love to happen, and time is really running out. They too have asked the question and received a no. It is a slightly different situation because these people do not actually live together, but they do have a lasting relationship. She's in the U.S. now, so to speak, the plane is ready for that partner to come over tonight, but he can't. I would like to bring this to your attention, Mr Secretary of State, because these are extremely poignant situations. One of them has already been remedied, but I think we should consider how to avoid such situations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic559x.u3	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the covid pandemic has taken a heavy toll on a personal level, but the toll is still heavy, both in Belgium and in other countries. Of course, I'm kicking in an open door. Many of us have been affected by the measures that prevent us from meeting loved ones, family members and friends in the way that was common to this health crisis. These restrictions were collectively introduced by the various authorities concerned in the country. They're not funny, we all know that. I hope, however, that we all realise that they are necessary to protect our society. Mrs Van Bossuyt, a correction for international travel has rightly been introduced since 1 September, and travel to Belgium of non-European partners in a sustainable relationship is now recognised as essential relocation. This rule hasn't changed and long distance couples also use it every day. In the meantime, however, a new problem has emerged, in particular that of the dangerous covid variants which spread faster and are more contagious. For a limited number of countries in which these variants rage, a temporary stricter entry ban is applied to combat imports of the variant as far as possible. The reason for this is the protection of public health. These rules apply not only to couples, but also to study migration, family reunification and labour migration. It is therefore a very strict restriction on the possibilities that exist in normal circumstances. Unfortunately, with today's variants, we have to think first of all about public health. I would like to make it clear that no distinction is made on the basis of the nationality of persons. The criterion is whether a country which has been identified as a high risk zone in the past 14 days has been in the territory of a country. From such a country one cannot move directly or indirectly to the Belgian territory. This scheme is temporary, proportionate and is evaluated weekly. We took care of that ourselves, and I put the emphasis on it myself. After all, it is a very strict restriction on existing possibilities. Being so strict can only be possible if a weekly follow-up is carried out, which countries should or should not still be covered by the scheme on the basis of the figures. Only those countries for which this is strictly necessary, because it is objectively very bad, will be listed. There are only a handful of exceptions to this entry ban, including for the core family of a Belgian living with a non-Belgian partner. The list is variable. To give you an idea, today there are about 20 countries on the list. Two weeks ago, there were 27 of them. Malawi is also on the list today. Continuous evaluation is necessary to ensure that our strict measures are adopted and complied with as far as possible. Mrs Willaert, in the individual case to which you refer, the question of the family was justified. I have held that, in view of the exceptional and particularly difficult situation of the family concerned, this case falls under the exception for compelling humanitarian reasons, as defined in Article 21 (2) of the Ministerial Decision. The existence of this mechanism is important because it allows us to act differently in compelling humanitarian circumstances. There must be room for manoeuvre and it was rightly applied in this area. I would also like to clarify the two different exceptions for humanitarian reasons contained in the ministerial decision. If you are in a red zone outside the European Union, you can only travel for essential reasons, as defined in Annex 3 to the Ministerial Decision on covid. The list includes an exception for travel for humanitarian reasons, including travel for assistance or care. There is also an exception for high-risk countries, but only for the most pressing cases. Hence the term compelling humanitarian reasons. The bar is clearly higher than for travel from a third country which is not classified among the high risk areas. These must be situations that are truly worrying or urgent, where there is inhuman living conditions or a danger of life. The embassies and consulates have been instructed to correctly apply this exception, the example you quoted is therefore an application. The actual decision is made by the Department of Foreign Affairs, which also ensures uniform and correct application. Each case is assessed individually
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic559x.u4	Mr Secretary of State, it is certainly right that public health should be at the forefront. We must be vigilant about possible variants, but we must also be vigilant about the fact that restrictions on our freedoms are limited in time. You have now stressed that this is the case and that there is a weekly update of the high-risk countries. I would argue that it should be played very briefly, because for a lot of people it is a very difficult period that we have had and everyone wants to see their loved ones again as soon as possible. Playing briefly on the ball thus certainly remains the message.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic559x.u5	Mr Secretary of State, who knows me, however, we do not know each other well. I am the first person who thinks it is very important to be super careful when it comes to combating corona. I understand that it is difficult, but some things we really need to do to ensure that there are no casualties. That's what it's about. However, I would like to ask myself a few questions about the way in which this issue has been dealt with. At first, these people were told no several times, but by writing to you and all the ministers, there has been a change in that. I have emails in which people say they've been communicating with the embassy for a month, but that the answers they've been getting each time were so blunt that they couldn't help but cry. That's literally in that e-mail. According to the embassy, this is not a humanitarian reason: a humanitarian reason is a medical treatment that is vital, which is clearly not the case. That's what I'm worried about. After all, there are people who will not have the reflex to write to all ministers, so I hope you will take this matter to make a clear distinction with someone who is palliative and whose parents want to visit relatives in the first degree to say goodbye and also with the other case that probably came to you very recently. This is also about a long-term relationship since 2017 between a girl who is palliative and in Ghent University and her friend who wants to come to Belgium to say goodbye to her. I hope that you will look into this more closely and that the issue can be dealt with more generally, even though I understand the need to deal with such matters individually. However, I believe that people should be treated nicely and that such situations should be looked at with great compassion. A loss is painful anyway, but if people can't say goodbye, they carry it for the rest of their lives. I would ask you, if possible, to check that everyone is properly informed. That would be a good thing, given the reactions I have received. Thank you for that humanity.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic559x.u6	Mr President, thank you for calling the committee together after all. Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for being here. You have been released in the very short term, even though you are undoubtedly very busy. I appreciate that very much. Mr Secretary of State, I read this morning at Belga that the Americans are thinking of giving 20,000 Afghan interpreters and helpers of the US army humanitarian visas access to American territory. With their families there, the potential could be about a group of 100,000 people. Of course, that's huge. I interviewed Mrs. Dedonder about this. She said that it would be less than 30 people for Belgium. Meanwhile, a family with three members would have arrived here. Do you have any more information about that? I have always supported the project from NATO. I believe that it is essential for future operations to be credible to those who want to help the Western countries. This is not evident in the Middle East, Asia or the Sahel. We must therefore set an example. We have often not done so in the past. That is why I think that we should do so from a strategic point of view. Mr Secretary of State, I would have liked a state of affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic559x.u7	Mr President, I would like to return to Mrs Willaert's question. I have been whispered in my ear that the case referred to by her has been settled. It has made all sorts of pertinent comments about the need for a humane view in such cases. Perhaps it is in the diplomatic posts that everything has to be done quickly, so that they do not always respond in the right way to such questions. In any case, I am glad that some people find the way, but it is true that not everyone always finds the way and that politics has to take care of the roads. I come to your question, Mr Francken. First of all, I think it is only natural that I should be here, even though it is not evident today, given the hunger strikes. By the way, it is not easy for the mayors who are suffering from floods either. Anyway, that doesn't mean I'm happy with your appreciation. We are expected to be present and active in Parliament. That's the logic itself. In my turn, I appreciate the presence of Members of Parliament, digitally or not, in committee. Mr Francken, it is true that it concerns only one family of three who has received a visa in that context. Defence accompanied that family during the visa application, during the trip, during the submission of the application for international protection in Belgium and during the stay in Belgium. The costs that have been incurred in this context should be requested from fellow Minister Dedonder, because the Defence Department is responsible for these costs and provides the right support, which I think is a good thing. For America, 20,000 people are involved, the commitment to the Americans is of course of a different order. This is not the case for Belgium. No other questions have been put to my services through the Defense Department at the moment. If these questions do come, we will certainly look at them. I can only inform you that, in view of the Afghans' exceptional efforts, we will also take a very positive approach to such requests for our soldiers in Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic559x.u8	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. You say it's one family of three. I hope they do well here; I sincerely mean it from the bottom of my heart. I think it was and is the right thing to do and that the DOD should follow that up. The applicants come here with a humanitarian visa, but I assume they will then go to the asylum services. Should they apply for asylum, or should a humanitarian visa be enough? What exactly is the technical procedure?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic559x.u9	Mr Francken, they are granted a humanitarian visa, but an asylum application for obtaining international protection is of a higher status. They may therefore apply for asylum, but I cannot oblige them to do so. It is the logical consequence that should be linked to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic559x.u10	Yes, it is. All right, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic559x.u11	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I have another question about the Afghan asylum crisis. You know that I am concerned about the Afghan asylum crisis. And I'm not the only one who's worried about that, it's raining articles about that, international as well. I understand from the Slovenian ambassador that it is also important for Slovenia, making it a priority. I have read the Slovenian Government's note following the Presidency of the European Union, which contains a whole section on migration and Afghanistan is specifically addressed. What's the status? What do you plan? Do you think it's a betrayal? What can we expect from that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic559x.u12	Mr President, Mr Francken, it is true that the situation in Afghanistan is worrying. We are not going to discuss foreign policy or defence policy here, but at least the situation is worrying. This is an evolution that is closely followed at European level and at Belgian level. Indeed, the Afghans have been present for some time in our asylum figures. Influx figures in Belgium are rising for Afghans, as in other European Member States. Afghanistan is the most important country of origin in many European Member States, including Belgium. It's been a long time. We note that Afghans' applications for asylum are increasing. In the first half of this year, 2,087 applications were submitted. In covid year 2020, there were 3,104. In 2019 there were 3,400. We therefore note that there is a serious increase. It is important to note, however, that those who are now applying in Belgium have often been present in Europe for a longer time. It is often a second request or people who have been active in Europe for some time and only now submit a request. The current influx into Belgium is probably not directly due to the changed situation in the country of origin. The Commissioner-General shall be independent in the assessment of applications and shall take into account the individual situation in the region of origin of the person concerned. The situation in Afghanistan is complex, but the Commissioner-General does not believe that there should be a systematic granting of international protection to everyone from Afghanistan. The situation is therefore closely monitored. As far as measures are concerned, my services will do everything they can, especially in the fight against secondary migratory movements. For example, Dublin transfers will be carried out as far as possible despite, but taking into account the covidcontext. This is not always easy, but we must try to do what is necessary. The return to Afghanistan has not been stopped. Each dossier shall be examined individually and thoroughly to determine whether return to Afghanistan is generally in accordance with Article 3 of the ECHR. Particular attention shall be paid to a possible internal flight alternative or from safe zone. We will certainly continue to support the voluntary return. I'll give you some figures on the forced return. In 2017, there were 30, in 2019 16 and in 2020, in the covidcontext, 5. It is not possible, it is difficult, but we must ensure that this is not completely stopped. Because there are many countries that feel the consequences of the situation in Afghanistan and of the flow towards Europe, it is particularly important that we act together at European level. You mentioned a country, there are others. A country such as Austria, for example, is also aware of this. Here too, together with a number of partners, we are looking at how best to act jointly to provide the necessary information and to take the right approach in a dossier that is not obvious, but which certainly enables the countries that feel the most about secondary migration to act in the right way to combat it as much as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic559x.u13	Mr Secretary of State, I am certainly convinced of your good intentions, but I believe that more will be needed. I am therefore in favour of dispatching campaigns. We did that in the Farsi and in the Pashto. I believe that there will be no other way than to engage in international distress campaigns which must also be placed on social media there. In this way it can be made clear that it is not really here as they mean, being a land of milk and honey. There is a great deal of misery, including on the Greek islands. Of that group of refugees 22 arrived in our country today. A number of unaccompanied young people have already arrived for this purpose. You're trying to help out there, and you know I'm not a big fan of that. In your communication, you always say that this is not a structural solution. I can live with that. We really need to start dissuading at international level. We have done this a number of times. Mrs De Block also did this. I really think we should go down that road because otherwise they will be back here. Nor will Dublin offer a solution, especially in Greece where this is extremely difficult. Only a punitive betrayal can provide a solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic559x.u14	Mr Secretary of State, I have reread yesterday's questions and answers and I have noticed that nervousness is very high among the friends of the PS and Green. You're trying to keep the calm, which, of course, is not obvious. You did get support from Vooruit and you noted that the neutral zone is a first step. I have a few questions in this connection. Firstly, you say that there are 150,000 illegal immigrants in this country. I never knew that number myself, but you put a number on it. Mr Roosemont used to say that I shouldn't put a figure on that, because we just don't know how many people we're talking about. I don't know where you got that figure, but you keep repeating it. However, that is only a detail. As far as the dossier itself is concerned, you say that the neutral zone is located near the Beguinage Church, in a building of the city of Brussels. Those concerned can apply for regularisation and then go to the mayor of Brussels. However, I assume that a large proportion of these 475 people do not live in Brussels. However, a reference address must be provided when submitting a regularisation application. Why did they choose Brussels? Suppose it's a hunger striker who's been living in Leuven for years, doesn't he have a permanent residence in Leuven? It is therefore strange that we are going to discuss this in Brussels, because that is an exception to the standard procedure. Would you mind explaining that for me? Secondly, do these people also pay the planned EUR 350? After all, a rate of EUR 350 per adult has been fixed. Will they have to pay for that too? For a couple, this amounts to EUR 700, which is a considerable amount. I introduced that at the time, and I still support it. Will you provide for an exception for these people? Is the city of Brussels going to pay for that? I would like to see that clarified. Which procedure will be followed exactly? Has anyone gone to the neutral zone since yesterday afternoon? I hear that the action committees are stopping those who want to go there. Could you give us some more information on the technical implementation of the procedure? Do you have any I.D. on these people? Do you have a closer look at this group? After all, that is one of the major problems, in hunger strikes people do not want to pass on their data, because they fear that the Foreign Office will go behind their backs to the embassy to arrange a laissez-passer. That great distrust is therefore a problem. Do you have any idea who these people are and what the status of their files is? Moreover, it is not even certain that there is a dossier, because I assume that many of these people have been completely executed. In that case, of course, there are no more applications. I would have liked some clarification on this too.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic559x.u15	Mr Secretary of State, I too would like to express my appreciation for your presence at this committee meeting. At the beginning of this week, there was still no clarity about this, but when I saw that the committee was still being convened, I submitted questions last minute. I very much appreciate that you would like to answer our questions today so that we can discuss a few things before the summer recess. That certainly applies to the hunger strikers' file. I heard your reply yesterday in plenary. We welcome the establishment of a neutral zone, because it should be the intention that as many people as possible should be able to receive support for an individual application for regularisation at the moment. That is why I would like to ask you today about the state of implementation of that neutral zone. What actors are there? For us, it is important that there are not only staff members of the Foreign Office present. As Mr Francken said, people on hunger strike do not always have confidence in that. The presence of employees of NGOs is therefore equally important. At this stage of the hunger strike, people must also be able to receive medical and psychological guidance, at least that seems essential to me. We support that neutral zone. We believe it is important for people to be able to submit a regularisation dossier on an individual basis, in an easily accessible way. After all, this hunger strike must be brought to an end. These people must be informed as correctly as possible about their rights and their situation. Unlike Mr Francken, I think that we should look for a human solution and I do not think that the focus is on the procedure, namely whether they can submit their application in Brussels and whether they pay EUR 350 file costs, is important at the moment. The important thing is that these people find their way to the neutral zone and that hunger strike can be ended. I think everyone will agree with that. Mr Secretary of State, that neutral zone must serve to find a way out of the current crisis. Can you give any feedback yet? How's the implementation going? What is the current state of play on the ground?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic559x.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we all have the same objective of ensuring that the action stops as soon as possible, in order to prevent further human suffering. I've always called for the hunger strike to be stopped. The medical condition of many activists is deteriorating. That is not illogical, as the action has been going on for 55 days. You're asking for an exhaustive list of the hunger strikers and their files. As long as those concerned refuse to submit an individual application, I cannot be sure about the various profiles of the activists. The fee must of course be paid. As for the whereabouts of the hunger strikers, it is up to the city of Brussels to determine their actual place of residence. I agree with Mrs Platteau that this is not the most important issue in the debate. The most important thing is getting out of here. My message to the hunger strikers was and is still very clear. The current regularisation policy cannot and will not be guided by such actions. If so, the next time, a week later or a month later, they will receive new actions. I continue to call on those concerned to submit an individual application for humanitarian regularisation. These will be dealt with in accordance with the existing regularisation policy. We did indeed start yesterday with a neutral zone at the Begijnhofkerk site in order to give the parties concerned information about the procedures for staying, their dossier and, if necessary, their previous negative decisions, the reasons for them and their implications. This is done in cooperation with the city of Brussels and with Mayor Close, whom I would like to express my gratitude for the very constructive cooperation. Several consultations and repeated invitations to civil society organisations have unfortunately not led to the presence of civil society. I think it is very important for people to be able to engage in dialogue, including with trusted persons or with a neutral partner from whom they can get information. I therefore repeat my message that, of course, civil society is more than welcome to help strengthen our offer in the neutral zone. As I have made clear from the outset, I am always prepared to talk to people without legal residence. I think it is also the job of a Secretary of State to explain what the policy stands for. That's what I did for the actions. Even before there was a hunger strike, I met the people who had occupied the Beguinage church in my cabinet, because I also have a duty to make clear what the rules are. I would therefore like to make it clear that such actions are not necessary to enter into consultation with me. I would also like to stress that such actions do not lead to any kind of negotiation. My position is clear. We must encourage people to submit an individual application for humanitarian regularisation. They may obtain information for this purpose in the neutral zone. The application shall then be treated in the same way as any other application, individually and taking into account all elements of the dossier. In the case of hunger strikers, there may be people who are eligible for humanitarian regularisation according to current policies, and no doubt there are also people who are not eligible for this. There can be no collective regulation. Nor can we pursue a policy that makes a difference between someone who is on a hunger strike and someone who is not on a hunger strike. When a number of organizations put forward the figure of 150,000, they mainly indicate that there are many other people with similar questions besides the 475 who participate in a hunger strike or occupy one of the three sites. There should therefore be no differentiated policy in this area; it would only be inhumane if we made a difference. Mr Francken, in your written record you asked about the short work visas, but you did not put them orally. I'm glad you asked the question. On social media, you make it appear as if it was a proposal from a political party or government policy. That is why I would like to take this opportunity to be clear on the matter. No, I don't plan to deliver short work visas to the hunger strikers. Those concerned may always apply for a single permit from abroad, but never from illegal residence. If they comply with the legal conditions and the procedure is followed, the single permit will of course be granted. That is the procedure and it will remain so.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic559x.u17	Mr Secretary of State, have there been people in the neutral zone since it opened yesterday? I read in the paper this morning that I didn't. Has that changed in the meantime? I assume you'll be kept informed of that constantly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic559x.u18	Yesterday the neutral zone was opened and today we sent an invitation to the spokesmen of the hunger strikers to come. I can't tell you now whether that happened in the end. I can only say that we follow the situation every day and it is understandable that we should not look at what happens 24 hours later. We also need to give that some time to see whether the scheme works or not. I just hope that we all support and support this arrangement, in the hope that confidence will grow slowly and that hunger strikers will make the most of the regular channels.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic559x.u19	Thank you for the explanation. I think the file is really becoming a government breaker. I have been sitting on the Rue de la Loi for some time now and the positions you take and which I heard translated yesterday through the left flank of your government make me conclude that this will not work. So there is a neutral zone, but if the people involved have to pay EUR 350, they cannot count on short work visas, their files are dealt with individually on the basis of the same criteria, in short, if everything goes as you say, then a lot of hunger strikers will not be eligible for regularisation. If the left-wing parties continue to hope for regularization, they will not go on hunger strike for 55 days, but they will continue to do so throughout the summer. It seems to me very difficult to find a solution to this if the positions remain the same. You're talking about involving NGOs in the neutral zone, but I don't know what NGOs you're talking about. After all, there are so many in that area. At some point we will have to decide whether or not some of these people are really starving to death by mandatory medical supervision. When they die, they are in a completely new political story and your position becomes almost untenable. I would look at this mandatory medical supervision, because the hunger strikers will not be regularized on the basis of the criteria. You haven't given any new instructions. These are people who have often been in asylum procedures only for a short time, with short-term professions, often first asylum applications, and never for five or six years. They've all tried that. Many of these people have already submitted 9a and 9b; so they will never be regularized. It's usually Moroccans and Algerians, and they just don't qualify. I'm not saying you're wrong, Mr Secretary of State. I haven't said much about it yet, because I generally think you really do have a point. I've been through the same thing. With me, the hunger strike was pretty quick because they realized that the then government wouldn't fold. Your problem is that people don't think you're gonna fold, but they think you're gonna fold, but they're gonna have the rest of you behind you, or they're gonna have to be in the government. They'll put a lot of pressure on you, and if anyone dies, they'll bring them in right away. That's what's happening now. The only question is when it will happen. The situation is so cynical that responsibility is crushing. Mrs Platteau, you say that, unlike me, you are striving for a human solution. That's what you said... but what you're doing is a disaster. If a person doesn't want to teach me about a human solution, then it is the left-wing parties who constantly lose weight and attack their own Secretary of State, constantly and quite clearly. Everything about humanity, I don't know what's best. It was done with me and no one died. We'll just have to wait and see. About the fact that you guys are feeding that case all the time, I've been thinking. But some things we'll never agree on, of course.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic559x.u20	Mr Secretary of State, a few weeks ago I said in this committee that we need an outreach approach. The main aim is to make sure that hunger strike stops. It is clear that no one thinks that is a good method. As a party, Ecolo-Groen does not support this either. However, we must continue to seek solutions to ensure that this hunger strike can be stopped. If civil society does not want to cooperate or is not represented, we need to keep looking for a solution and find out how they are not currently involved and that this neutral zone has not been a success at the moment. I fully agree with you that there should be a person of confidence, that we should look for an approach that creates confidence. All the understanding that this is not an easy task, but it is our duty to continue looking for a solution. At this stage, it is indeed a question of whether these people should first be able to physically and mentally catch their breath and not end the hunger strike first, before they can think about their future and what sustainable future prospects there is. For the sake of clarity, this is not just a regularization based on 9a and 9b. It could indeed, as Mr Francken points out, not everyone who is there is eligible for this. But as long as we can't see who they are, it's hard to know what's going to happen there. I also agree with the scepticism about the often quoted figure of 150,000 people. Those are estimates, and we don't really know how many people there are in our country without papers, so without legal residence. I think that policy must do more to make a structural assessment of this and to get a better view of it from scientific research. This is the only way to tackle this problem in a structural way. I know your position, Mr Secretary of State, of course, because you communicate a lot about it. You say that you will never allow other solutions, such as a combined residence permit or a work permit from our country, from illegal residence. I simply note that civil society and citizens who send e-mails are asking for such solutions to be considered. The ACV, for example, puts that forward in a press release as a solution. Those different slopes therefore exist, but it is not an easy task and we must first try to ensure that that hunger strike is ended.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic559x.u21	Mr Secretary of State, in recent weeks I have asked several questions about the repatriation of IS fighters and their children. What's the status? On Twitter, I read that there would be a rescue operation in progress. Is that right? How many people are we talking about? You are involved because you may have to issue humanitarian or other visas for children whose nationality is not yet established, as they do not yet have residence documents to enter Belgian territory. Did your services provide those documents? For how many people and for whom exactly? Which kids are we talking about right? What age are they? I'd like more explanation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic559x.u22	Mr Francken, the Foreign Affairs Office is not competent for Belgian nationals. A performance of the DVZ may be necessary for children of Belgian parents who are not formally Belgian nationals, because they are not yet registered in our country. In such cases, a travel document may be necessary. Given its classification, I can't give any further explanation in the operation. I explained that last time. The figures will be communicated in due course.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic559x.u23	Mr Secretary of State, of course I always understand security issues. Let's make that very clear. However, I do not think it is a coincidence that the rescue operation is going on just now that the last plenary session is over, so that we will not be able to question the government on this matter. I don't think that's entirely correct. It's a very controversial operation. I read somewhere that you also have your own opinion on this, but the government has now decided. That is why I am asking the question today in committee, at the last possible moment, because if the rescue operation is complete over the coming weekend, I cannot ask any more questions about it, although it is always possible to schedule an additional committee meeting. I had predicted that the operation would be done in the light of the summer. That's what people are actually doing right now. I continue to find it a hallucinating decision, which I absolutely cannot support, in any way. Last week, the terror victims, even without legs, climbed the Mont Ventoux with a wheelwagon and bicycles to get some attention from the government and meanwhile the government is conducting that operation. I do not understand that, I do not understand why the victims of terrorism are not reimbursed and treated correctly, but ISIS fighters would be flying into the country in the meantime. After all, many of these women are at least as bad as their men. They all said that they had to take care of the children, cook and nurse them, but a lot of women were in the hisbah, the police of IS. I have no understanding for that. I believe that the government is on a completely wrong track here, sending a very wrong signal to the victims of terror and to all the other inhabitants of the country. We also adopted a resolution on the Jezidi yesterday. Els Van Hoof was the principal producer, together with Koen Metsu and Mr Dallemagne. We are the first European country to recognise, among other things, the problem of sex slaves there and to demand respect for those victims. I find it unbelievable that the next day we are going to come up with the rescue operation of IS women. I don't approve of that in any way.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic559x.u24	Mr President, Secretary of State, it was announced that a number of visa sanctions would be introduced by the summer in the context of poor or inadequate cooperation on return for a number of countries that were not mentioned in detail for the sake of diplomatic relations again. I do not necessarily need to have the list of all the countries concerned. I'd like to know where we stand now. You announced those sanctions by the summer. Where's the file now? Can these sanctions be introduced? I've been reading some stuff about it the past few days. So it is clear that the government is working on it. Can you give me any explanation? What exactly is the sanction mechanism? Suppose a certain African country does not or hardly cooperate, how can it be sanctioned? What exactly is the concept in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic559x.u25	Mr President, Mr Francken, you are talking about the procedure under Article 25a of the Visa Code. The procedure is ongoing. As I pointed out at the previous committee meeting, the European Commission first started diplomatic talks with a selection of countries which do not cooperate or do not cooperate sufficiently in return. On the basis of the outcome of these talks, a number of proposals for visa levers were formulated for the countries concerned yesterday. Those countries cannot be effectively communicated. However, the European Commission has now put forward a number of very concrete proposals on visa levers. On the basis of the European Commission's proposals, the European Council will decide which specific sanctions it will adopt. Unfortunately, I have to say here too that until then the discussions will be confidential. You can read in Article 25a, § 5, a, of the Visa Code what sanctions are available. This concerns, for example, the temporary suspension of the application of provisions of the same visa code, such as the exemption for the payment of visa fees for diplomats, the treatment period and the period of validity of multiple entry visas. It is now important for the European Council, on the basis of a number of proposals made by the European Commission on specific sanctions, to decide what it will do. So you will find out more about this later. In any case, I am very pleased that there are now a number of concrete proposals on the table that the European Council should be working on. That is a step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic559x.u26	I don't know if there's another council meeting in July? That may be before August or September, or before autumn. We'll take a closer look at this. I think it is positive that there will be more pressure on these countries. I've always said that. It is even in the conclusion of my book that Europe should stop "always trying to be mister nice guy." We must make it clear that we also have our geopolitical agenda. We shouldn't always want to be the friendly man of the world. At times we simply have to draw a line and make it clear that we are putting our priorities forward. We must finally convert the economic giant we are into diplomatic power. We're not doing enough of that. That is why I fully support this. I hope it works.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic559x.u27	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to ask you what is going on here. A few weeks ago there was a meeting of the nuclear cabinet where this dossier would be discussed, together with the right of visitation, another name for the residents. This is a similar solution to the one we had devised to make return policy more efficient. My question is whether there have been any discussions and what the situation is. Is there a breakthrough to be expected in the near future? I understand that this is not just about this, but also about other issues that are related to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic559x.u28	Mr President, Mr Francken, the note I submitted to the government indeed proposed a set of legislative measures that further shape and improve legislative return policies. That whole of measures must, of course, be discussed within the government before I can propose it here in the Chamber, regardless of the fact that I have already made a statement here in committee on what the policy of the future should be. I will conduct the negotiations where they need to be conducted, and that is not in the media, and not in Parliament at first, but in the government's bosom. Then I'll come and explain my plan here. That's how I intend to deal with it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic559x.u29	Mr Secretary of State, I understand that, of course. I wish you every success. I have seen no passarán, so it will not be obvious, but we will wait and see.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic559x.u30	Mr Secretary of State, you intended to obtain an agreement on the Government's Master Plan of Closed Centres at the beginning of 2021. We are now in the middle of July, the parliamentary year is coming to an end. The government has met a lot, often digitally, but that will almost be done. A lot of government members are taking some family time from next week to relax and get some rest. All the understanding for that, but it doesn't look like there will be another breakthrough about the master plan. Meanwhile, the counter's ticking and everything's shut down. What's the status? What other problems are there? What is the realisation period?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic559x.u31	Mr Francken, the project did not stand still, as I said earlier. In recent months, my services have worked very hard and continue to do so together with the Government of the Buildings, which, of course, is also involved. The last few weeks and months I haven't communicated about that, that's right. That will remain the case, because, as I have already said, agreements must first be made in the government, especially with the partners such as the Government of the Buildings, which is the actor involved in this. In any case, my services have worked very hard in recent months to create necessary additional capacity in the closed centres. In the past, promises have often been made about this, but there is also a need to set figures against it, so that the plan can be put forward as well as possible. Unfortunately, that has not happened in the past. Then we got numbers and a timetable for the completion of the project, while there was no stone. We now work differently: we first calculate everything with our services. That has already been done. Now, in consultation with the Government of the Buildings, we are trying to come up with the right plan of action in order to be able to do effectively what was not the case in the past, namely the realisation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic559x.u32	Mr Secretary of State, it is the last exchange of views this parliamentary year. How do I look back on that? Allow me to say that I do not doubt your good intentions, but I doubt the good intentions of your government and your government partners. I think after eight or nine months, a lot of sticks have been sticking in the wheels. I think the hunger strikers are just a symptom. We will see if you can reach an agreement on the right of visitation and the new code on migration. I wonder in what direction everything will go in the coming weeks: the hunger strikers, the master plan for the closed centres, the extra capacity. Nor do I think that the bigger picture of the current European migration model can work in this way. I do not believe in breakthroughs at European level. I refer to the Slovenians' reaction. Another item on the agenda is the enlargement of the European Union to include all the Balkan countries that are not yet present. Let's do that for once. We will include all the Balkan countries. Then we immediately have an agreement on migration. That has become even easier. Excuse my cynicism. I'll see about it all. I will continue to follow up on the dossier in the summer months, which hopefully will be more beautiful than the last few weeks. We'll meet again in September. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic559x.u33	Mr Secretary of State, on 6 July you paid a working visit in the Netherlands. You tweeted next post: Faster procedures, better returns, successful integration,... we can learn a bit from. How? Professional chain approach to asylum services and substantial investment in staff." Mr Secretary of State, what did this work visit mean in concrete terms? Can you also give an overview of what you have visited and who you have been in contact with? What conclusions did you draw after the visit? What concrete policy actions can we expect from you in the short term?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic559x.u34	Mr Secretary of State, on 7 July you went to work in the Netherlands. You met, among other things, the Dutch Deputy Secretary of State for Justice and Security, Mrs Ankie Broekers-Knol. From the messages on your social media channels, we can conclude that you have discussed with your Dutch colleagues, among other things, the duration of asylum procedures, return policy and integration. Last spring, in Question Time in the Dutch Lower House, your Dutch colleague referred to our country as an example of the policy on unaccompanied minor refugees (NBMV), following reports that 18,000 asylum children are missing in Europe. She indicated that, when an NBMV departs from a Dutch reception centre and is later admitted to the reception centre in Belgium, she will not be notified of this, because an NBMV is not covered by the Dublin rules. As a result, a lot of minors disappear from the radar. Both through the government agreement and through your policy paper, the Belgian Government has also made it clear that it wants to pay more attention to this vulnerable group of refugees. I therefore have a few specific questions for you. Firstly, have you made additional agreements with your Dutch colleague to strengthen cooperation between the two countries on asylum and migration? If so, what arrangements? Secondly, have you discussed specifically with your Dutch colleague the problem of unaccompanied minors and how the flow of information between the two countries can improve on this issue? Thirdly, do you draw lessons from the Dutch policy on the duration of proceedings and return policy? How will you implement those lessons in your policy if necessary? Finally, have you reached further agreements with your Dutch colleague on cooperation on asylum and migration at the European level and the positioning of both countries? Will the Netherlands and Belgium work together as much as possible in the discussion on the EU migration pact?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic559x.u35	Mr President, Mrs Safai, Mr Demon, thank you for your interest in the two-day visit I made to the Netherlands on 5 and 6 July together with representatives of the Foreign Office. The aim of that work visit was mutual learning and the exchange of international positions. I'll give you an overview. In the Landelijke Aliensingen voorzieningen in Rotterdam I spoke with the Dutch director Migration Policy, the competent alderman of the municipality of Rotterdam, the director and staff of the reception facility, as well as with representatives of the NGOs, the Rotterdams Undocumented Support Point and the Goedwerk Foundation. I then visited the detention centre in Rotterdam, where I was toured around the facilities by the director and spoke with the director of Prison and Foreign Guard and the director of international affairs of the Return & Departure Service. I had two diplomatic meetings with my homologist, Mr Broekers-Knol. Several issues were raised, including European and Benelux cooperation, the problem of nuisances and unaccompanied minors, return, covid restrictions, cooperation with third countries and the United Kingdom and legal migration. The Head of the Office for International Migration Policy was also present. I also visited the House of Representatives, where I had a brief debate on migration with Dutch MPs from the permanent Committee on Justice and Security and the Contact Group Belgium. Next, I received a presentation from the Dutch Immigration and Naturalization Service on the independent screening of that service and the asylum chain. The Director of Regie Migration Chain and the Director of Strategy and Implementing Advice of the IND gave the presentation. That discussion was useful in the light of our own review of the services we are organizing. Finally, I visited the Enforcement and Supervision site in Hoogeveen. There I spoke to the location manager, the chairman of the Dutch Central Commission for the reception of asylum seekers, the director of Opvang en Bezorging, representatives of the police, department of aliens, identity and trafficking in human beings, and two chain marines. There too, we talked about unaccompanied minors and their movements in the EU. Belgium and the Netherlands have a clear desire to continue their work on the issue. The Netherlands is a priority partner country. Our countries have similar structures for the registration, reception and outflow of migrants. The vision of asylum and migration from the national, Benelux and EU point of view is also largely shared. From the discussions I had, it became clear that there are opportunities to continue working with the Netherlands on the exchange of information, on the European Migration Pact and on strengthening the Dublin system. For example, there is the Belgian initiative to strengthen Dublin cooperation between the Benelux countries. I will also draw on the expertise of the Netherlands in various sub-domains. I have also offered to continue to share the Belgian experience. We went to Hoogeveen, too. Groups of asylum seekers who cause major nuisance in the reception centres in which they reside should also be given specific reception facilities. With regard to reception and orientation, the Netherlands has an interesting approach, which we want to test in our own country through pilot projects such as those in Antwerp and Ghent for people who are in long stays. I was very charmed by the way in the Netherlands the specific shelter is organised for people who cause nuisance in the asylum centres.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic559x.u36	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. There are, of course, several ways to improve our system, for example, with, as you said, a closed centre for those who cause real nuisance in the asylum centres, but that will obviously not really be a structural solution yet. Of course, you will have to do your best to make the system a little better, but now that you are planning your travels, I would like to suggest that you also go to Australia to see how people work up close. This is, of course, what we are doing is a humane shelter. That is the best and the only solution to stop illegal migration and, at the same time, to keep our hearts open to those who really need it and who really are covered by the Geneva Convention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic559x.u37	I'll keep in mind the suggestion of going on a study trip to Australia for the Home Affairs Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic559x.u38	I'm running for the study trip. [[No.]] If I have understood correctly, Mr Secretary of State, you would be open to passing on the details of unaccompanied minor refugees within the Benelux, so that steps can be taken forward in this respect. I know you're not supposed to answer again, but that was, a little bit on the edge, my question. That would be a good step forward, I believe.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic559x.u39	That's right. There is a movement of unaccompanied minors from Belgium to the Netherlands, sometimes also via Luxembourg. It seems to me to be very important to exchange information on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic559x.u40	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, you have already informed the committee that you would like to convene the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Migration and Integration as soon as possible. A while ago, however, not all governments had decided on their delegation. What is the current state of affairs? Do you know when the inter-ministerial conference will meet for the first time? On behalf of the federal government, what subjects and file do you wish to put on the agenda? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic559x.u41	Mr President, Mrs Platteau, for us it is certainly our ambition to start the Inter-Ministerial Conference as soon as possible. We were already finished with the launch in February, if I may put it that way. However, it was waiting for the names of the other governments to continue. I know that this question was raised at the most recent committee meeting. At the committee meeting, I got the names from the last government. It was the Brussels Government that we had to wait for. I told you that at the committee meeting. I will now inform you of the names of the participants who will be present. It concerns myself, Mr Dermagne, Mr Van Quickenborne, Mrs Wilmès and Mrs Schlitz. For Flanders, we are talking about Mr Jambon, Mrs Crevits and Mr Somers. For Brussels, it concerns Mr Vervoort, Mr Maron and Mr Clerfayt. For the Brussels Community, it concerns Mr Jeholet, Mr Daerden and Mrs Glatigny. For the Walloon Government, this concerns Mrs Morreale and Mr Collignon. For the German-speaking Community, it is about Mr Antoniadis. In order to prepare the meetings of the IMC properly, a working group will be set up, consisting of the representatives of each member of the IMC. This strengthens the impact force of the IMC. Immediately after I had received the last names of the various governments, I therefore wrote to various excellences asking for someone to be appointed to the working group. As soon as I get the names, an invitation will follow. Last time I got the names at the committee meeting I was talking about the names. Maybe those names will come out with a lot of magic even now. At least I hope we get the names soon. This would enable us to start quickly. As indicated, the IMC aims to contribute to an efficient, global and, above all, coherent policy across policy levels. To this end, the IMC intends to provide a consultation platform on issues falling under the different competences and policy levels. It's not supposed to turn it into a talk barracks. That is why we need to be able to work in working groups in order to do the preparatory work there. Politicians aren't supposed to come together every once in a while to get together. After all, I am not particularly interested in that. There are many themes that we can discuss here, such as labour and study migration, unaccompanied minors, integration and checks on conditions of residence. I hope I get the names soon, so we can work on that quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic559x.u42	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I am pleased to hear that the names of the political representatives are known, and I hope, together with you, that the working groups can be set up quickly and that this inter-ministerial conference will be able to start soon. As you say, this is very important and many themes are at different levels of policy, such as labour and economic migration. It is important that the Inter-Ministerial Conference can do the necessary, and I thank you for all the work you are doing on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic559x.u43	Mr Secretary of State, I ask you this question in response to the gender mainstreaming plan published by Secretary of State Sarah Schlitz. Gender mainstreaming actually means organising, improving, developing and evaluating policy processes with the aim of integrating the perspective of gender equality into all policy areas and all policy levels, by the policy-holder himself within the given domain concerned. The aim of gender mainstreaming is an integrated approach to that gender dimension and it is a strategy to strengthen equality between women and men in society and to integrate the gender dimension into public policy. The Secretary of State's plan for Equal Opportunities contains a lot of actions and recommendations in almost all policy areas, including for Asylum and Migration. A first priority according to this plan is to promote the well-being of the residents and residents of the Fedasil centres. Have you taken any action on this? Another action is the appointment of a gender mainstreaming coordinator or coordinator within the Foreign Affairs Office. I wondered if this has already happened and what the duties of this person will be.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic559x.u44	Mrs Platteau, especially in the field of Asylum and Migration, it is important to do enough gender mainstreaming. You already list two of the commitments: to integrate the gender dimension into the protection of the well-being of the residents of the reception centres and the appointment of the gender coordinator at Fedasil and the DVZ. In addition, the gender dimension will also be integrated in the Fedasil project calls, in the context of the interaction between staff and residents of closed centres and in the reform of family reunification legislation. Fedasil, the CGVS and the DVZ will also monitor the gender breakdown in their statistics. With regard to the protection of the well-being of the residents by Fedasil, I can tell you the following. Fedasil has already taken several initiatives to promote their well-being. For example, Fedasil recently developed a vision of well-being in the care facility and there was already an employee at Fedasil who worked on the issue of gender. He is now formally appointed coordinator. As far as gender coordinators are concerned, the processes are ongoing. Persons have already been identified, but the formalities and the development of the internal coordination structure are still ongoing. Initial training in gender mainstreaming by the Institute for Equality between Women and Men for Coordinators and other stakeholders is already planned for October. Coordinators will be responsible for coordinating and monitoring the different commitments made under the Action Plan on gender mainstreaming and the commitments to be made under the Action Plan on gender-based violence.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic559x.u45	Mr Secretary of State, it is very good that coordinators on the gender dimension will be appointed and that they will also receive the necessary training. I will continue to follow the theme.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic559x.u46	Mr Secretary of State, my question concerns the recruitment campaign in the asylum and migration services. I saw Selor sending mails with the title: "Would you like to participate in a humane and just migration policy?" It was a vacancy for 25 return escorts. On your Twitter page, I noticed that the Foreign Office is also looking for return counselors. You called on people to apply, with the message: You could have been complaining about migration policy for a long time. Today you can also make the policy better. I wonder whether this communication via Twitter cannot be misunderstood. For example, it seems as if those who complain about asylum and migration policy are your target group. In the context of the upcoming audit of asylum and migration services, I also think it is important that the people who will be recruited are widely available. After the audit, we may have a restructuring of a number of services, where it is important that these people can be used permanently. A strong HR service is also important, because in such a large recruitment campaign the new people must also be able to get the necessary support. Mr. Secretary of State, what profiles are you thinking of when you communicate on Twitter? What communication skills and attitudes do you seek from potential applicants? Does this way of advertising work? Do the job vacancies attract the expected numbers of candidates and are they the right people? Finally, what is the current situation regarding the HR support of new staff within your services? Are there enough people present to ensure a reception policy and, among other things, the development and evaluation of these new staff?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic559x.u47	Mrs Platteau, there is a clear need for a strong reinforcement of asylum services. Over the next few months, we will be looking for more than 700 new employees. As with other public services, the search for specific profiles is sometimes difficult. As far as the 700 new employees are concerned, if I have learned one thing from the Netherlands, wherever we went, the difference in numbers between the staff in the Netherlands and our staff is really significant. Moreover, the scale of this recruitment campaign in the asylum services has never been seen. It is therefore important to highlight this campaign in all possible ways, for example via Twitter, when I say "You may have been complaining about migration policy for a long time." Should I have been Minister of Mobility, I might as well have said, "You could have been complaining about being in traffic for a long time. Today you can also make it better." That doesn't mean I'm looking for ghost riders. When I say that, it is with the intention of looking for people who want to make policy better, because migration policy can be much better. We can all determine that together. Through Twitter, Facebook and other channels, but also through this committee, I have said it a few times: I call on everyone to actively seek candidates and to take part in the asylum policy of the future. Since the recruitments are done via Selor, I have chosen to launch a separate website so that interested candidates have a clear overview of the profiles we are looking for. Our HR services have been sustainably strengthened as a result of this campaign, but they do not have enough capacity to launch and process all these vacancies at once. The website allows to give an overview of the vacancies that are available today and will be launched in the coming months. The selection of candidates will not be by me, nor by a Twitter Tribunal, but by Selor and by the services themselves. I myself hope for enthusiastic candidates who are motivated to work towards a better asylum policy. At least the way of advertising works. I can give you some figures on this. We notice that the number of registrations is higher than usual. There are sufficient tenders for the number of places to be filled in. For 71 vacant places for return escorts we received, hold on, 1,315 applications. For the 170 places for migration and protection officer we received, hold on again, 1,596 applications. These are profiles that meet the conditions of participation, such as having the required diploma. In the coming weeks, a job-specific screening will be carried out, first in writing and later orally, to check whether the candidates are made of the right material. A reception and follow-up process has been developed for the new employees. There are internal training courses and a process of socialisation is started after recruitment. In this context, a meter or peter is allocated on the first working day to help the person. Afterwards there will be a close follow-up by hr on the integration of the staff member. If necessary, it can also be adjusted accordingly. The new employees, like all other employees, will be followed through Crescendo, the evaluation system of the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic559x.u48	I am satisfied with your answer, Mr Secretary of State. We're getting positive signals, including the number of candidates. I hope that we will find the right people for the right places to strengthen and improve asylum and migration policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic559x.u49	I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Secretary of State for his presence, but also for his good cooperation in the last year. I wish you time in your busy agenda to take a little holiday, Mr Secretary of State, so that we can see each other again in September with a fresh mind. I would also like to wish the other colleagues a good holiday.
