ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic539x.u1	Madam Secretary of State, we have already discussed a number of issues in the course of budgetary control, and there are indeed a number of questions on our agenda that had been raised before. For the next part-sessions, we need to look with the services at how the questions put before a budgetary control or debate will be dealt with. I suggest that you take that up with the chairman of the committee, Mrs Marghem. Having said that, although many points have already been answered in all kinds of questions, there are still some questions that remain open. For example, a first series relates to commissions. There are two types of commissions in your budget: the interdepartmental commission, the classic story, and the corona commission, which was created specifically for the corona crisis. First of all, we had asked you for a summary table of the commissions. The answer in plenary was that the services were still working on it. Is that table ready by now? If not, when could it be ready? Secondly, I have a more fundamental question. How will you handle the commissions? The commissions were partly used to build political balances into the coalition agreement. The interdepartmental commissions have already been allocated. You have always said that if the ministers come up with concrete dossiers, the funds will be taken out of the commissions and entered in the correct line. Does that mean that the amount of commission will fall? The commission pool would therefore not remain the same size if budgets were to shift to the right line. Is that right? That is the second fundamental question. Thirdly, a whole series of information questions have been asked, and I am sure we will get the answer. I'd like to pick out some of them anyway. Questions relating to public communications were not answered during the budgetary control debate. What exactly is the situation with regard to public communication in the context of the corona pandemic? Exactly how much was spent on it? What was that spent on? How much of that money went to the campaign '1 team of 11 million 'all together'? How much went to the CoronAlert app? We have not yet received any specific figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic539x.u2	Mr Loones, I would first of all like to say that some of your questions are outdated, since we have already had the budgetary control debate. I regret that myself, and I would like to look with the secretariat and the chairman of the committee at how we can avoid such situations. We'll find a solution. To your question on commissions, I can refer to my presentation at the meeting of the Committee on Finance and Budget of 24 February and 30 April 2021. The answers are largely reflected in the powerpoint presentation shown at that committee meeting. However, on 13 July 2021, I will come back to the committee with a state of play on all commissions. During that meeting you will receive a new detailed overview. We do have the tables now. Secondly, it is true that when ministers come up with concrete plans and have thus gone through the whole process, i.e. with the drawing up of KBs and distribution decisions, the funds are entered in the correct budget line and they disappear from the commission. I will therefore give a full account of your third question on the detailed figures next week, 13 July. Then you'll get more clarity.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic539x.u3	Madam Secretary of State, other committees consider such questions to be answered after major debates. The services will contact us to see if there are any questions we will keep. It creates some sort of filter. That may be a way of working, but we can discuss that practical point when Mrs Marghem is present. It is good that before the summer recess we will have transparency in the state of affairs with the commissions. You said that if there is a minister with a file, the funds for this will be entered on the right line and will disappear from the commission. That commission will therefore be reduced for the same amount.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic539x.u4	The next item is the debate on the following motions for resolutions: 55014513C by Mrs Houtmeyers. However, it is not present.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic539x.u5	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, this is a rather old question, since it was tabled in early March, and today we are at the beginning of July. It is true that you have referred to the shock that exists between the budgetary debates and the issues. In any case, a period of four months seems a little long. On 12 February, the government decided to implement a pilot spending review project on waivers of professional discount payments. The aim is to examine whether these exemptions are actually achieving their objective and whether it could not be achieved more effectively in another way. A priori, this initiative can be welcomed because the exemptions from the payment of the occupational prepayment, i.e. this "legal theft" of workers' taxes by their employer, have not ceased to increase since the beginning of the 2000s. They amounted to $3.4 billion in 2019 and are expected to reach $4.5 billion by 2024. However, in order to complete the exercise, it would be necessary to know what the purpose of these exemptions is. However, they have often been introduced as a matter of urgency by programme laws which are limited to formulating general objectives which are not set out in more specific objectives linked to quantified targets and deadlines. As the Court of Auditors noted, "this situation does not allow for an assessment of this fiscal policy, particularly on the basis of performance indicators used to measure its effects". In its March 2019 report, the Commission recommended assigning specific, concrete and measurable objectives to exemptions. The Government has not implemented these recommendations since a new exemption from payment of the occupational allowance for the training of workers was introduced as a matter of urgency through the Programme Law of 20 December 2020. Madam Secretary of State, do you intend to implement the recommendations of the Court of Auditors? Do you not think that it would have been better to implement these recommendations before launching the pilot spending review project? Can you explain the methodology of this pilot project? Which administrations will be involved in this project? What is the status of the project? What will be the criteria used to determine whether the professional discount waivers are achieving their objectives, bearing in mind that, so far, no specific, concrete and measurable objective has been assigned to this "tax gift"?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic539x.u6	Mr President, Mr Van Hees, we will see how it is possible to prevent the answer to the questions from being too late. On 12 January 2021, the government decided to set up a pilot spending review for the exemption from payment of the professional discount and also approved the mandate of the working group which will carry out this spending review. Since the early 2000s, employers have in some cases received financial assistance in the form of a partial or total exemption from the payment of the occupational allowance. The occupational discount exemption currently applies to overtime, merchant shipping, dredging and towing, research and development, fishing at sea, night and team work, sportsmen, wage adjustments (AIP), assistance zones, start-up businesses and young employees. The working group has started and it is up to it to do the analysis and prepare the report. I cannot put forward the results of the report which are expected in the course of July. The working group is composed of staff from FPS Finance, SPF Strategy and Support, SPF Employment, SPF Social Security, ONSS and the Finance Inspectorate. The Court of Auditors' report on this subject is the starting point of the working group. Representatives of the Court of Auditors also explained the report at the first meeting of the working group. The spending review is therefore a logical follow-up to the Court of Auditors' report. The working group may formulate options to respond to the remarks made by the Court. The working group will map the basic data of the different support sub-schemes, study the efficiency and effectiveness of one or more schemes, the methodology can also be used for other support measures in a later phase, and compare with alternative policy choices such as direct subsidies and exemptions from social contributions. Finally, I would like to stress that these are pilot projects and that the intention is also to enable the administration to gain experience in expenditure review. Based on the experience gained in the pilot projects, consideration will be given to the process of spending reviews and, where appropriate, the necessary improvements can also be made or the process can be further formalised.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic539x.u7	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for these answers. I understand that the report should be finalized in July. I hope we can get it this month again to analyze it. I guess we won't have time for a meeting. Receiving the report would therefore be a good thing. You quote ten categories of professional discount exemption. Indeed, there is inflation in these categories and in the amounts. Indeed, in the early 2000s it was a few hundred million, while today it is several billions. The potential positive effect is unknown. The risk is to create a boon effect and to spend those billions of euros with lost funds except for employers who benefit from it but without real effects. I understand that this working group will also compare the effectiveness of occupational discount exemptions with other forms of wage subsidies. The problem is that these wage subsidies can also have a boon effect. This could be a simple change of gift. In any case, they are, in my opinion, lost funds for the state. It would therefore be necessary to review the very conception of this permanent subsidy to employers, which amounts to giving them gifts. It would be much more useful to use public money to directly finance public employment and public service, rather than always passing through this policy of cheap effects offered to employers. I can only deplore the fact that, even before waiting for the conclusions of this working group, the government has created new categories of professional discount exemptions. It's incoherent as a policy!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic539x.u8	Madam Secretary of State, I have already put this question to you some time ago, particularly in connection with a statement you made in February in the context of three pilot projects that you wish to launch. The aim of one of these projects is to make care more efficient. It will not surprise you that, when I read that, I was curious about your plans, especially as Vice-President of the Committee on Health. The aim would be to launch a broader study in the context of reviewing existing funding opportunities and, where appropriate, to look at the introduction of innovative funding systems in order to prevent both overconsumption and underconsumption of care. The focus is the right care in the right place, which I think is the right focus. You were supposed to launch a project call for that. The aim is to make a more cost-effective system work. It's early July now. Did you release that project call? Have the themes been defined yet? Is it about hospital financing, the pharmaceutical budget and/or nomenclature? The debate is also quite topical following statements by your fellow Minister Frank Vandenbroucke at the Zorgnet seminar last week. In this context, Zorgnet itself has provided some slopes to change the flow of funding. Do you also discuss this with your colleague? Which institutions are involved? Are the FOD and the RIZIV also involved? Are the Communities also involved, given the intertwined nature of the sixth state reform, for example in the case of hospitals? What's the timing? What's the plan? Is there a certain commitment to results or commitment to effort linked?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic539x.u9	Mrs Muylle, the expenditure within the scope of the spending review is all expenditure within the perimeter of the healthcare budget. It is therefore a question of the RIZIV budget and medical care. The commitment for this project was first included in the Medical Insurance Institutions Agreement of December 2020 and endorsed by the Insurance Committee on 8 February 2021. Since the adoption of the route by the Insurance Committee, each meeting of the Committee has reported on the progress of the work. In the meantime, the Committee met on 26 April and 10 May and, of course, in June. The agreement is that in mid-July, as with the two other spending review projects, a report will be produced and the implementation of the selected proposals can be started. Certain parts of these exercises could also be included in the budget format for 2022. As soon as the report is available, it will be discussed further in the working group. If the final results are there, they will of course be disseminated. It is also important to know that this is a pilot study, an exercise to get the technique of spending reviews in the fingers. As a result, we cannot yet say exactly what the timing will look like, but we expect the report in mid-July, after which we hope to proceed with the results as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic539x.u10	Madam Secretary of State, it is positive that this will continue to take place within the framework of the Medicomut and the Insurance Committee. We'd better wait for the report. Of course, all this is not separate from what we have included in the government agreement on other routes, for example for the financing of hospitals. These routes are also the responsibility of your colleague, and I will also mention them there. I'm looking forward to the report, and I'll definitely come back to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic539x.u11	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l 55015765C, 55015766C and 55015807C were already answered during the discussion on budgetary control. Or would you like to add elements?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic539x.u12	No.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic539x.u13	Madam Secretary of State, I asked you a question a long time ago about the financial management of the War Heritage Institute (WHI). You know that a letter from the Government Commissioner to the then Minister for the Budget on the financial functioning of the WHI was reported some time ago. There are many areas where this effect is inadequate. The government commissioner's report reported, among other things, years of neglect, highly neglected infrastructure, a management that is excessively focused on external representation, more than on management capabilities. There was also a lack of uniformity, coherence, with regard to staff, etc. There's a comprehensive report from the Court of Auditors on that. I also addressed my question to the Secretary of Defense. I am on this committee in my capacity as a member of the Defence Committee. The Secretary of Defense has said that a number of letters, including yours, have been sent to the management of the WHI. Could you briefly outline the contents of that? What points of interest have you raised in that regard? I know from other sources that you delivered that letter effectively, and that you mentioned the abuses within the WHI, and that you made some sort of ultimatum. Could you give us more information on this at the moment so that we can continue to follow up this dossier in the Committee on Defence?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic539x.u14	Mrs Ponthier, the Budget Commissioner informed me of the general state of affairs in the institution concerned in a letter of 19 November. On that basis, a consultation took place between the Defence Policy Cell, the Government Commissioner and staff of my policy cell. The Defence Policy Cell indicated in this consultation that it and the WHI will take the necessary actions. However, in the absence of any structural improvement, there is a risk that the WHI will have financial consequences. I am a little surprised that you are asking for this information by means of an oral question. It is not clear whether or not you have received the document. In the document of the Chamber, The means of action of the MPs, In question and answer, it says literally: "What should I do to consult a board document or receive a copy of it? Anyone wishing to consult or receive a copy of a administrative document shall submit a written application to the competent federal administrative authority, stating the matter and, where possible, the administrative documents concerned." I do not know whether you have already received the letter or not, but I will nevertheless give it to you. You can look at that note, which shows the state of play within the institutions. That's a public document. Since it's about Defense, I suggest you pick this up on the relevant committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic539x.u15	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for delivering the document. I could get it through a different, non-formal way. You may indirectly follow the work of the Committee on Defence, but I put this question to you orally because we do not hear in any other way either from the then Director-General ad interim of the WHI, Mr Jaupart, or from the Minister of Defence. I am sure you know that we must ask the Secretary of Defense repeatedly to obtain documents for inspection. An oral question is often the fastest way, but this question dates back to the beginning of April and is only now, three months later, dealt with in this Committee on Finance. I would ask you to continue with the impetus you have given in your letter to the WHI. As you know, the Director-General, Mr Jaupart, is currently appointed by this government against better knowledge. The Court of Auditors has produced a very destructive report on the state of human resources and the general malaise of the WHI, the lack of a well thought-out policy, the lack of a multiannual budget at that time, and a clear vision for the future. I think you are right to say that if the situation on the ground does not turn quickly, you will also have to cut resources, as the WHI receives a lot of resources, which are not managed efficiently at the moment. I think you made the right decision. The preservation of the military heritage, and thus the memory of our past in the event of enlargement, deserves all the support, including the means of operation, but if there is no effective governance, then there must be pruning and saving in this area. I hope you'll be able to pull that line.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic539x.u16	I also thought of the question of whether the coronapandemic aid measures would be extended and in what form, had already been answered. But it turns out to be open again, given the government's new communication style. The open debate culture has come back from perhaps never before. Madam Secretary of State, you gave an interview last weekend in De Zondag in which you clearly draw a line: all aid measures in the context of the corona crisis must stop at the end of September and we must return to normal economic life. But this morning we heard Mr Dermine on the radio. Then we saw again all your tweets in response. I do like a transparent debate. I hope that you will speak clearly at the government table, and I assume that you will. It's a good thing that's happening out in the open, too. Anyway, Mr Dermine does not entirely agree with you. In his view, we should be open to the possibility that the aid will be extended even after the end of September. What's the deal now? Who's gonna pull the longest? Is that, with your interview in De Zondag or will that be Mr Dermine, who wants to continue to finance the support measures for a number of groups that still need it specifically?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic539x.u17	Mr Loones, the aid measures currently run until 30 September, no longer. The subject will, of course, be discussed in the government. Of course, the outcome of that discussion will also depend on a new wave. I very much hope that it will not occur or that it will not be too difficult for the economy. In principle, however, the aid measures will cease at the end of September, as it is currently decided. The rest should be discussed further within the government. You have already read my opinion on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic539x.u18	Madam Secretary of State, we were able to read the interview in The Sunday and your tweets, but it is a pity that you do not repeat what you said here. Here you sound much more nuanced, where you said the measures would stop. So you didn't make the cessation of the aid conditional. Here, however, you link this to a new wave, which could be a reason for extending the aid measures. That's not what Secretary of State Dermine said this morning. He said that even in the current pandemic situation, without a new wave, aid measures should be renewable. I would have hoped that you would have made a strong statement here that it had to be done definitively, that we would have heard the same De Bleeker here as in the newspapers. Perhaps the President could give you the floor again to make your statement a little more explicit.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic539x.u19	I have made my opinion very clear. At the end of September, the measures will stop for me. I've said that everywhere. I also said in that interview in the newspaper that I can't look into a glass ball if there's a fourth or fifth wave. However, when one sees that consumer confidence and entrepreneurial confidence have increased so much, it is really necessary to return to a normal economy. That is why I believe that the measures should end at the end of September.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic539x.u20	That is an interesting exchange of views, because you have been clearer this time, Madam Secretary of State. You say that's done unless there's a fourth wave coming. That is not what Mr Derminne says. We'll see about that. I certainly hope you're on the right track. Madam Secretary of State, I would also like to point out that you also have resources at your disposal to be right. If any files pass through the Council of Ministers, you'll have to sign them. You can also refuse to sign it. I am curious to see how many times that signature will be refused in September.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic539x.u21	Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I thought that this question on the double right of bridging was reasonably answered, until I read La Libre this morning, an often very well-informed newspaper. It states that 430,000 self-employed persons have benefited from the right of bridging, which corresponds to four out of ten self-employed persons. "For half of the self-employed affected by the Corona crisis, the simple bridge law is insufficient." La Libre therefore states that the only right of bridging is not sufficient. Moreover, the SME association UCM also asks for a perspective on an extension of the measure and also asks for the double bridging right to be put back on the table. I quote Mr Renaud Francart, president of UCM, in La Libre. "The best thing would be for the government to decide this week, so that the House can vote on the new arrangement before the holidays. Otherwise, we will not be ready in the fall for further closures or other restrictive measures." The SME association says that the only bridge law is not sufficient, and certainly not when the measure will end at the end of September. Actually, the UCM is asking for a double bridging right. The debate on the double bridging right is well known in the Chamber, and so is you in the government. Mr Clarinval, Minister for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises and Self-employed persons, was a requesting party for the dual right of bridging, but the government did not follow him. He was on his own and didn't make it home, because the government was against it, so there's not gonna be a double bridge. Madam Secretary of State, in view of the new publicity and analysis, my question is whether the double bridging right is being reconsidered within the government or whether that discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic539x.u22	Madam President, Mr Loones, you should actually put this question to the attention of my fellow Minister, Mr Clarinval, responsible for the Middle and Self-employed. First of all, it is on his proposal that the government may or may not consider double bridging rights, and his services shall also be responsible for drawing up estimates of the budgetary costs of such a measure. Within my competence, I can only confirm that the double right of bridging for shops which are open to appointment or which are not yet fully operational was not taken into account during the budgetary control conclave.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic539x.u23	Madam Secretary of State, I am asking you the question because you have already answered a similar question at the committee meeting on 30 March. You did not refer the question to your colleague, Mr Clarinval. That is why I was hoping for an answer again. I find that I can bring out a little less today. I will therefore take it up with Minister Clarinval and see what it will be at the end of September.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic539x.u24	Madam Secretary of State, my question deals specifically with support measures for the catering sector. This sector receives a whole range of support measures and can use them well. After all, the sector has been badly affected and has had to remain closed for a long time. A measure that stands out is the VAT reduction for the catering sector. I would like to refer to your interview last weekend with De Zondag, in which the journalist, Mr Cobbaert, asked you if the catering industry knew that the VAT reduction would stop. Your answer started with a word in brackets: " (neglecting) ". So, according to the reporter, you avoided the question and refused to admit colour. You did not want to say explicitly that the VAT reduction would definitely stop. I would have liked to know if we could get past that avoidance today. That is why I would like to put the question to you once again: will your purple-green government stop the reduced VAT for the catering sector at the end of September, or can the catering sector count on extended support, even if there is no fourth wave? In other words, can the VAT reduction continue to apply by definition?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic539x.u25	Mr Loones, budgetary control discussed the budgetary sheets which included the budgetary impact of the measures in question in the relevant working group. The potential impact of additional measures in this area was not yet taken into account, as the precise composition of the package of measures was not yet established. On Wednesday 21 April, however, an agreement was reached within the government on a new package of aid measures, including support for the catering sector. A first estimate of this was given to me. This involved a cost of EUR 840 million. This was added to budgetary control by amendment and currently runs until the end of September.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic539x.u26	Madam Secretary of State, I believe that the written report of this plenary session will read "neglecting." Of course, you just didn't answer my question. I asked you the same question as the journalist, in order to communicate clearly with the catering industry so that they know what to expect. That is very important, also for their contractual relations. They need to know that what is given is apparently not definitively acquired. They must take this into account when negotiating with the brewers and when putting prices on their menu cards. Your government will probably delete the reduced VAT again. It is important to announce this transparently, it would bring some extra honesty into the debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic539x.u27	Madam Secretary of State, my question has already been taken up in the course of budgetary control and can I sum up in a sentence: have you received a file from Minister Dedonder on military personnel? On 26 March, in the meantime three and a half months ago, the Minister communicated that she had a deal on raises, staff allowances and incentives for Defense. It would be interesting to know whether the Minister has done her homework and in the meantime delivered the file to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic539x.u28	Mr Loones, I have not yet received a specific dossier. So I did not agree to this either. As far as I know, only a basic agreement was reached with the trade unions. It is therefore difficult for me to answer detailed questions. So I do not know at this stage when these reforms will come into effect or what the exact budgetary cost is.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic539x.u29	Madam Secretary of State, that is a bad habit of this government. You yourself set the tone of serious work and not promise things we can't live up to. I hope you will pass that message on to your fellow ministers. Communicating in the press is always fun, but it becomes really relevant when parliamentary work is done here, when files are prepared and when the budget is adjusted. I regret that Mrs Dedonder's DOD has a root and says that everything is coming, but she doesn't do her homework. Our military deserve better.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic539x.u30	Madam Secretary of State, the home nurses were promised in March that they would receive a premium for purchasing protective equipment. Questioning the Minister of Health shows that the file has been greatly delayed in your cabinet. Minister Vandenbroucke said that Finance had issued a negative opinion on this subject, arguing that the planned fee of EUR 2.5 per patient contact................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. I assumed the problem had been solved in the meantime. In the meantime, the RIVIZ has given you additional arguments on your question and it was also decided in the government's womb to grant that premium. Then what is the cause of the delay? Subject to my mistake, the home nurses have still not seen that premium appearing on their accounts. I'd also like to know how you look at that file. There's been a month's delay. Do you really think that EUR 2.5 for protective equipment is too high? How could this situation have arisen? Was there no coordination between you and Minister Vandenbroucke? How can this be avoided in the future? A lot of contributions were announced for nursing. However, action is needed instead of words. How can these mistakes be made and how can they be avoided in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic539x.u31	First of all, I would like to stress that the government and I attach great importance to the work of the nurses and all the other caregivers. We thank them, of course, for the work done during the corona crisis, but also before and after. Although the urgency of these measures is understandable to those concerned, this must not, of course, lead to hasty and error. However, I can assure you that everyone involved in the administrative process is aware of this and will do its utmost to give the opinion as soon as possible. As far as your specific questions are concerned, the various measures taken by the RIZIV in the framework of COVID-19 are indeed being discussed within the government. However, the transposition of these agreements into regulatory texts is still open to questions as to how these measures will be implemented or the measures to be taken themselves. As far as the amount of the allowance is concerned, it is important to report that the opinion is delivered by the Treasury Inspectorate, which works in all objectivity. I suppose you're not questioning the latter. The arguments put forward by the Inspection were such that a more thorough examination of the file was necessary, both by my administration and by my policy cell. It should also be borne in mind that the total cost of the measure for 3 months is approximately EUR 161 million. I can inform you in advance, in so far as you are not yet aware, that I sent my reply to the Minister of Health on Thursday 6 May, after a final discussion between an employee of my policy cell, the Health Administration and the RIZIV on Wednesday 5 May. As I said earlier, I certainly understand the urgency, but the advice of the Finance Inspectorate required a more thorough examination of the dossier. In addition, questions could also be asked about the tax treatment of the measure. In the meantime, the dossier also received the approval of the Council of Ministers of 21 May 2021.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic539x.u32	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answer, which disappoints me greatly. After all, you are describing the way things are going as if it is the most normal thing in the world. You also acknowledge that course and consider it normal. For something announced for nursing in March 2021, but apparently still under discussion, albeit in terms of content or financial impact, it would not have been a bad thing to clear things up quickly. I don't know what you understand under "quick." The measure was announced in March 2021 and in May 2021 the government had further consultations on the amount that should not be too high and on the budgetary impact. That is very late and shows very little respect for home care. You also say today that we should know how much such a measure costs. However, you should consider how much it costs for the home nurses to purchase protection material against corona. They have that cost and you are now bakkeleit with the Minister of Health about the amount of the money. On the other hand, the costs they have incurred are many times higher than the premium they receive. It's really outrageous. The fact that you don't acknowledge it and you don't take lessons is really sad. This is not a good prelude to the remaining measures, which are always delayed. The government is very good at announcing measures to the sector. However, it is lagging behind in its final implementation and its transposition into action. Nursing has much more to offer in terms of measures and euros in their accounts than in terms of valuation, which is not reflected in action.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic539x.u33	Mr Ravyts put his question No. 55017061 in a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic539x.u34	Madam President, of course it is not possible to do so, because both questions have been put together, but that is not a problem, because in the Committee on Energy, the Environment and Climate Policy there are also mixed questions from me and Mr Ravyts. He is currently present in that committee and I cannot therefore put my questions to that committee. Madam Secretary of State, I am happy to give priority to you because the budget is being discussed in this committee. In this committee, it is about everything in the end. Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, this question concerns the key issue, which is also a topical one. The Green parties and Deputy Prime Minister De Sutter van Groen have communicated that they will be the parties that will close the nuclear power plants. This morning, the press reports on how the government intends to develop and market the expertise of decommissioning nuclear power plants so that it can be offered internationally. The closure of nuclear power stations is a huge dossier, and I do not have to explain it to the committee chair. The dossier also has a huge budgetary impact. In recent weeks, the budget for this year has been discussed in this committee and we will soon be discussing the 2022 budget. However, the key step is in the multiannual budgetary perspective. It would therefore be a good idea to clarify the precise figures and how they are now understood in a multi-annual perspective. The capacity remuneration mechanism, the CRM, is coming to fill in the subsidy system in a slightly different way. Your government says it won't cost consumers anymore, people won't pay for their energy anymore. In addition, it is also said that the federal costs in the electricity bill will fall. All these things must be brought together in one way or another. We know how that will happen in the end: the budget will have to be improved. If the bill is not correct, it will end up there again, and perhaps on your table as well. Madam Secretary of State, in order to have this debate to the full, I think that transparency is best, including on the figures. We have already read in the press amounts of EUR 842 million, but I do not know to what extent that will be correct or more or less. When exactly would these budgetary costs be booked? What year is that? How is it handled? What about the subsidies to wind farms in the North Sea that will be added? Is that system gonna keep running or is that gonna be dealt with in a different way?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic539x.u35	On 28 January, the Electricity and Gas Regulatory Commission, the CREG, published a study on the impact of the costs of the federal public service obligations on the electricity bill and on a proposal for aid for the competitiveness of companies, which does not weigh on the invoice of households and SMEs for the CRM and the offshore surcharge. In this study, the CREG puts forward some proposals to reduce the federal share of the electricity bill. From 2025 onwards, the cost of the capacity compensation mechanism has the largest share in the increase in the federal share of the electricity bill. As regards the impact of the capacity compensation mechanism on the multiannual budget, I can state that a ministerial decision was adopted at the Ministerial Council of 30 April instructing the network operator to organise the auction for the period of capacity delivery starting on 1 November 2025 and setting, inter alia, the maximum volume of capacity that can be contracted. This ministerial decision has also been published in the Belgian Official Journal. In the budget agreement for the above-mentioned ministerial decision, I have already provided as a condition that the estimate of costs for 2025 and 2026 is included in the multiannual estimate. It is only a preliminary estimate. The final cost of the general budget shall be determined by the auction four years for the delivery of capacity, the auction one year for the delivery of capacity and the method of financing that mechanism. For further questions concerning the federal share of the electricity bill or the CREG study quoted, I refer to the Energy Committee, which is responsible for this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic539x.u36	Thank you for your reply, Madam Secretary of State. You are right, the technicality of the energy dossier is of course for the Minister responsible, but the processing of the budgetary costs is for you. I understand two things from your answer. Firstly, budgetary costs are mainly from 2025 and therefore not in this legislative period. In your reply you mentioned several times the year 2025. Secondly, my personal surprise. If I am well informed, the nuclear power plants will start to shut down from 2022. Five of the seven will definitely be closed between 2022 and 2025. Can I understand from this that there are no budgetary costs from 2022 and that the account will only start to run from 2025? I'm surprised. I'm not an energy specialist, but 1+1 doesn't seem to me to be 2 right away.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic539x.u37	Madam Secretary of State, this is the most interesting question because it is about the future. We talked about last year's budget and budgetary control. Soon there will be a look at the new budget. As I said in plenary, the De Bleeker budget was born. Now we will see how it will grow up, in what style and with what dynamics that will happen. Your comms are awesome. You want to put things in order, be strict and wake up all the ministers. In your opinion, we need reform and we need to stop spending only money. You also say that agreements have been made in the government agreement to get the budget in order and to go towards a deficit of 3,66 % at the end of the journey. On the one hand, you are strict in your communication, on the other hand, I note that the PS is not yet fully awake. In any case, the PS ministers are not awake. They haven't even responded to your speech yet. Come on, don't wake up yet. A committee on European affairs is currently taking place. I just got the message that Vooruit, your coalition partner, in that committee, says that we should not adopt a budgetary restrictive attitude too quickly. At the moment it is said in this same Parliament that the strict Miss De Bleeker is not taken seriously. You did receive an answer from one person: Secretary of State Dermine did provide you with an answer, but according to the journalist he went completely against you. He said quite the opposite. He was his loving self and did so without making it too explicit, but the message was actually clear: we do not think that these budgetary reins need to be kept too tight. Madam Secretary of State, how will you do that now? In the meantime, we have heard that the technical working groups are running this summer. How will you ensure that the agreements that have been made are also respected? How will you make sure everyone wakes up? Today they are not yet quite clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic539x.u38	Mr Loones, all your questions are interesting. I have already sent the text of the circular to the secretariat of the committee on 18 May so that it can continue to distribute it to members. The Council of Ministers of 12 May 2021 approved the launch of three pilot projects on spending reviews, namely the exemption of deposits for the company advance, the impact of general telework on the organisation and expenditure of the federal government, and the contributions to efficient care. The Council of Ministers decided that the working parties should submit their final report by the end of July and that they should report to the Monitoring Committee on an interim basis. So these pilot projects are still ongoing. The latest information indicates that all three will be delivered in July. Following the evaluation of pilot projects and any adjustments, it is intended to continue the methodology of spending reviews and to incorporate them into the budgetary process. Indeed, the Budgetary Drafting circular for 2022 states that the departments, institutions and public social security institutions, as well as the Treasury and/or Government Commissioners, are invited to propose at least one topic for spending reviews when submitting their proposals for the 2022 budget, or an opinion on these proposals. It is not necessary to put the proposals of the departments in addition to those of the Treasury Inspectorate, but to obtain a list of potentially interesting topics. In the context of the Begoting Preparation 2022, on the basis of this list, a proposal will be made to the Council of Ministers for a number of new spending reviews projects, which should therefore be implemented over a period of approximately one year. I have replied to your questions in writing. I can add that I will wake up my colleagues. I repeat that we must return to that normal economy as soon as possible, which is therefore subject to normal orthodoxy in terms of budgeting and budgeting. Quite apart from the question of whether Europe is imposing this, I believe that it is up to us, policy makers, to ensure that we achieve a deficit that is sustainable in the long term, so at least that the deficit reduces....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... This is the greatest concern for future generations. I will repeat that and I will stick to it, because I think that is really necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic539x.u39	Madam Secretary of State, I fear you will have to do more than just repeat it. You've already repeated a lot, in your tweets and in your interviews. It's not the first interview you give in the same sentence on Sunday. You have repeatedly stated publicly and very communicatively that this budget will have to be put in order. One ignores you and even speaks flagrantly against you. Meanwhile, it also says in De Tijd that the PS doesn't want the corona support on the shovel yet. Everyone understands there's a tension in the government. The PS is not awake and you will have to do more than just repeat it. Madam Secretary of State, you have the opportunity to ensure that files are not on the Council of Ministers. We need an agreement from the Treasury Inspectorate and also your signature to get a file on the Council of Ministers. You can't sign that. I will be very active and glad to ask how many times you will not do that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic539x.u40	Madam President, I had actually considered this question as being dealt with in the context of budgetary control, if it were not for the Secretary of State just to say that it is not just looking at putting the budget deficit in order, but also at the level of debt. Madam Secretary of State, you say you want to reduce debt, because that is very important for future generations. However, we will have to do more than just reduce the deficit. We also need to look at how we will privatise some of the things the federal government is organizing today in the future. How do you make sure that politics is less present in it, how do you want to sell and how do you make the private sector active in it? And how do you ensure that the budgetary proceeds can be used to bring down the state debt? So I have no choice but to ask the question again. Are there going to be privatisations? If so, which one? You said earlier that the passage of privatisations was rather indicatively included in the government agreement. You may have more news about this today, given your ambition to reduce public debt.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic539x.u41	Madam President, Mr Loones, as you know, the Council of Ministers approved the stability programme on 30 April 2021. It also estimates the evolution of the debt ratio in maintaining the path envisaged in the stability programme. The estimate of the level of debt indicates that revenue from possible privatisations has not been taken into account. As you know, privatisation operations do not have a direct impact on the balance of claims, but of course they do have a direct impact on the government debt. At present, therefore, the government has no concrete plans for privatisation operations. If I may, I would like to add that the long-term balance of claims is what has a lasting impact on the deficit and on the level of debt. The priority is to reduce the balance on an annual basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic539x.u42	Madam Secretary of State, I can hear you taking back some gas. The reduction in the budget deficit is really not enough. Not only the balance of claims, but also the sovereign debt will really have to fall, so that we can see it on both sides. Anyone can see from a distance what the glue is within the current government. The glue is that everything she doesn't get stopped, just gets put in extra debt. In the meantime, we can see that public debt is going in the direction of 120 percent. In your figures, she drops again. It does not do so in the figures of the European Commission. So let us really pay sufficient attention to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic539x.u43	The next item is the debate on the following motions for resolutions: 55017380C) by Mr Loones.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic539x.u44	This question has now been answered by Mr Clarinval. We know that the budget for the dialogue platform is about EUR 500 000.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic539x.u45	Is that a question for the Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic539x.u46	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic539x.u47	The next item is the debate on the following motions for resolutions: 55017436C by Mrs Depoorter. She's not here. Her question was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic539x.u48	My question brings us back to the file on Defense. We were just talking about the staff agreement announced by Minister Dedonder but not yet implemented. Defence is in the hottest of the struggle, not only literally but more and more figuratively in recent months, with the events around Jürgen Conings and the analysis now being made of ADIV and military security. Every day there is a newspaper article that says that the Defense Department needs to get more money. As far as our international commitments are concerned, it appears that we cannot deliver on our promises of adequate investment in security and defence. That calls for a number of questions. Everyone, including Minister Dedonder, says the budgets need to go up. I am convinced that the Minister is doing her homework and knocking on your door with her files, and not just with the personnel file. Did Minister Dedonder put budgetary questions to you? Does she want to invest extra? How many projects did she submit to you? How many of these projects have you signed? How many did you refuse? For what reasons did you refuse these projects? I find it hard to imagine the Minister restricting himself to communication alone. I therefore assume that she will also put specific dossiers on your table.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic539x.u49	Unless in exceptional cases, it is not customary for departments to request additional appropriations during the year. When drawing up the initial budget, the entire government shall decide on the appropriations of each department. This will be re-evaluated in budgetary control. If additional appropriations were granted in the course of the year, the budget would be different from the one approved by the government. Defense has an envelope budget. This means that in the preparation of the initial budget and in budgetary control within the agreed envelope, defence can be relatively free to decide what the appropriations will be used for. A growth path was already agreed for Defence by the previous government. Military expenditure will thus grow to 1.3 % of GDP in 2030. Military expenditure is the expenditure of the Defence budget, Section 16 of the budget, and expenditure on Defence in other departments, such as the pensions of the military in the Federal Pension Service. In 2021, military expenditure amounted to 1,14 % of GDP compared to 0,91 % in 2018. The clearance appropriations in the Defence budget, i.e. Section 16, amounted to EUR 2.6 billion in 2018, to EUR 2.8 billion in 2019, to EUR 3.2 billion in 2020 and to EUR 3.6 billion in 2021. During budgetary control, an amount of EUR 9.2 million was allocated for the update of the operational plan 2021. As a result of the military on the run, no questions were asked of me for additional appropriations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic539x.u50	However, the search cost almost 900,000 euros to the Defense Department. To sum up, I understand from your answer that Mrs Dedonder did not ask for anything more. The route is being maintained by the previous government. We were part of that at the time, with Minister Vandeput on Defence. To put it a little rudely, Mrs. Dedonder is honking and tattering a lot. Maybe she could work a little more and put new files on the table.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic539x.u51	Madam Secretary of State, the European carcan determines a budgetary trajectory and also how a number of things are done. Something new has now been added, the European Recovery Fund. The question becomes more and more whether that is something temporary or something definitive. It has been agreed that it is temporary, but there are more and more voices in favour of making it a permanent fund with permanent European funding. I have two questions. A first question is a financial question. Do you also think that the European Recovery Fund should become a permanent fund? My second question is more a question of budgetary impact. That European corona fund is financed by coronabonds, but there is also a plan to fund it with a digitalaks. The big digital players will be taxed and agreements will be made. The proceeds will be allocated to the European Recovery Fund. However, I would like to keep in mind, also in your article in De Zondag, that you include the proceeds of these digitaks in the Belgian budget. That money can only be used for one thing. Either it goes to Europe and it is for the European Corona Restoration Fund, or it goes to you and it is in your budget. Will you take up those pennies and tell Europe that the proceeds of the digitaks are for the Belgian budget and not for the European budget, or will you write in the European agreements saying that these pennies are coloured and will be used for the European corona fund?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic539x.u52	Mr Loones, since the two questions are related to each other, I will answer them together. As regards whether or not to make the recovery fund permanent, I would like to refer to what the Minister of Finance said in committee, in particular that the NextGenerationEU recovery fund is a one-off and temporary instrument. The government does not believe that the question of whether or not to make it permanent is currently under discussion. First of all, we must manage the crisis and above all ensure that the recovery fund is properly implemented and that our economy benefits, both in terms of investment and reform. It is only afterwards that conclusions can be drawn on the success and sustainability of the European crisis infrastructure. How this fund may be suspended will only be discussed once it is out of the question whether it will be permanent at all, which has not yet been decided at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic539x.u53	Madam Secretary of State, there is already a European decision as to how the fund is to be set up. A roadmap has been drawn up to finance it with coronabonds, with a tax on plastic waste and with the proceeds of the digitalaks. So I would like to appeal to the government: either it enrols in the European story, which means that the proceeds of the digitals will be European, or it decides to become euro-critical, and asks that money be put into its own budget. In that case, you can continue that line. However, it is one of two. It is not entirely in line with the European agreements that you constantly keep up the appearance that the proceeds of the digitals will strengthen the Belgian budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic539x.u54	Then we come to question No. 55018720C by Mr Loones on the budgetary costs of PCR tests.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic539x.u55	Madam President, that question seems to me to have been answered. It is also mentioned in the debate on next week's corona commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic539x.u56	Question No 55018728C by Mr Ducrame is deleted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic539x.u57	Madam Secretary of State, I asked my question about the social agreement and its budgetary impact last week and the week before. At that time the answer was that people were still calculating it. Madam Secretary of State, has the work been completed? Do you know the cost of the budget of what the social partners have agreed?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic539x.u58	Mr Loones, I wish I could answer yes, but at the moment we still do not have all the elements to share the budgetary impact of the social agreement. Both for the social sector and for the fiscal sector, the administrations, together with the social partners, are still in the process of completing the estimate. So I hope, like you, that there will soon be more clarity.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic539x.u59	Of course, Madam Secretary of State, but also particularly that such agreements are concluded and that no rough estimate can even be given. Unless you have a rough estimate, Madam Secretary of State? In the press I read an amount of 250 million euros. Can you confirm that information? That would be interesting, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic539x.u60	Once the numbers are known, we'll communicate more about that, but I don't like rough estimates. We'll wait until we can shed some light.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic539x.u61	Not at all, but it's a shame.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic539x.u62	Madam Secretary of State, the G7 has reached agreement on a global minimum tax for multinationals. As Secretary of State for Budget on Twitter, you were quick to speak of a 'important agreement'. In the budget table we received in October, the government is aiming for an OECD tax Pillar 2 of EUR 300 million by 2024. That's what we read in the coalition agreement. What is the concrete impact of this agreement on the world minimum tax on this government budgetary objective? In the budget table, the government is aiming at a digitaks of EUR 100 million by 2024. The United States, in the context of this agreement on the minimum tax, is demanding that these digitaks disappear in European countries, while the European Commission wants to introduce those European digitalaks to finance a number of expenditures. What is the impact of this global minimum tax agreement on this concrete government budget target of 100 million? Should the proceeds of this global minimum tax be paid to national budgets or to the European budget? I look forward to a very clear and concrete answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic539x.u63	I refer in part to the answer given to this committee by my colleague, responsible for finance. It is indeed important that there has already been agreement between the G7 on a minimum tax. A political agreement within the G20 is now within reach and is foreseen at the G20 Summit in Venice on 10 July 2021. Since the project needs to be further developed by the OECD, it is still unclear what the modalities of the minimum tax will be. The precise impact on the budget is therefore not yet known. However, we can already say that it is unlikely that the minimum rate will be lower than 15%. The G7 Communication also called for the withdrawal of unilateral measures on the taxation of digital services. Since this also needs to be further developed by the OECD, it is also not clear which taxes will no longer be able to be levied on digital services and it is therefore very difficult to decide now whether to make statements about who or what to collect, process and register. Preparations for the finalisation of the 2022 budget and the 2023 multiannual budget to 2026 are under way. I cannot answer with a yes or no at the moment, simply because it has not yet been worked out at all. The agreement in principle has not yet been drawn up and its timing has not yet been established.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic539x.u64	Madam Secretary of State, I am in favour of getting some concrete answers. You said I should ask the Minister of Finance for a number of things. Don't worry, of course I did. However, when it comes to the budgetary impact, I must of course address myself to you, because that is your responsibility. You have set out a number of points in the budget table for the coalition agreement. We will continue to monitor these issues in the 2022 budget, which must be submitted by the end of this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic539x.u65	Madam Secretary of State, your fellow Minister Van Peteghem launched a 29-point plan. I also questioned him about this, of course, but not about the budgetary impact. Of course, I'll ask you those questions. The government agreement budget table provides for an income of EUR 200 million for 2021 and up to EUR 1 billion by 2024 under the heading "Fight against social and fiscal fraud'. The Court of Auditors said about this in this committee in December: "The proceeds of these measures are estimated at EUR 200 million in 2021. However, no breakdown is made between tax fraud and social fraud." The Court of Auditors was therefore unable to assess for this year whether the estimates of revenue were correct and realistic, because there was no detailed calculation to support that estimate. In addition, the Court of Auditors pointed out that several measures still have to be translated into acts or will only enter into full force in the medium term. Madam Secretary of State, is there going to be a split in the budget between revenue from tax and social fraud, as requested by the Court of Auditors? How will the proceeds of the plan be calculated in concrete terms? Is the proceeds of EUR 200 million for 2021 on the basis of the proposed plan realistic, as several measures still need to be translated into legal texts? At the moment, I have not seen any legislation on this issue. To what extent is this budgetary objective still realistic for this year?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic539x.u66	Madam President, Mr Vermeersch, Minister Van Peteghem is responsible for coordinating the fight against fraud and he is also chairman of the College for the fight against social and fiscal fraud. From my position as Secretary of State for the Budget, I assume that every minister will take the necessary steps to achieve the measures provided for in the government agreement and the corresponding returns, in this case 200 million, 400 million, 700 million and EUR 1 billion respectively, for the period from 2021 to 2024. Finally, no division is foreseen for the time being.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic539x.u67	Madam Secretary of State, in my professional career I got to know the term NIFO, which means "not in job description." There is therefore no question of answering questions which are not really relevant. However, this is about the budgetary impact and I would have expected some answers. You proposed the budget in December and we have been six months. There should therefore be some clarity about these budgetary objectives. You said in your reply that you assume that the Minister will have his affairs in order and that he will do everything correctly. You have also made a similar statement in the House recently, but I would not like to assume that. After all, we have already seen in plenary sessions that the collegiality in this government is particularly weak. I refer, for example, to the President who said that the Minister of Defence is not her friend. She said that I needed to be somewhat cautious about nuances, but I found it very clear. So I would certainly not assume that everyone is concerned about the budget. Mr Loones has made this point several times today with regard to some of your colleagues. We will therefore certainly continue to follow the budgetary objectives of social and fiscal fraud.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic539x.u68	Madam Secretary of State, the Supreme Council of Finance (CSF) recommends that structural budgetary efforts of at least EUR 1.5 billion be started by 2022. You agree, of course, with that in your statements. "As of next year, Belgium will indeed undertake structural budgetary efforts so as not to further compromise the credibility of its fiscal policy," the CSF said in the opinion sent to the government on Monday, 12 April. That's what you're about to do. The European budgetary framework, which requires Belgium to achieve an annual structural improvement of 0.6% of GDP per year, is still the driving force. You have responded to this opinion of the CSF and you indicate that "the efforts planned today by the federal government are already in line with the first trajectory proposed by the Supreme Council of Finance. The second scenario calls for more intensive efforts by both the federal and federated entities." The CSF stated that "the forecasts will therefore have to be revised frequently and the policy will have to constantly adapt to the situation". There are, of course, uncertainties in this path, in particular, as you mentioned earlier, the possible waves of the pandemic, the rate of vaccination, but also the behaviour of interest rates. So I have a few questions, in a situation that, for you, is not easy at all and in which the challenges are enormous. For the CSF, it would be imprudent to take for granted the current financial conditions. What structural measures are you planning? What measures does the federal state foresee if the forecasts are nevertheless disappointing? Is an emergency scenario envisaged? Should tax increases or federal economy efforts be expected? Should other measures be expected, bearing in mind that there is a government agreement that marks all this extremely strongly in terms of principles? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic539x.u69	Mrs Marghem, the economic and health crisis has led to a sharp increase in the budget deficit and public debt. In the short term, I believe that the key to the success of an economic recovery is a rapid vaccination campaign in Belgium and among our trading partners. In the third quarter, when the majority of Belgians receive at least their first dose, we can expect a recovery in our economy. No further deterioration in the economic situation is expected at the moment, but this has already changed a little, since perhaps a fourth wave is expected. I hope not; let us all hope that it will not happen. Upon taking office, the federal government stated that managing the coronavirus crisis and the economic crisis was of paramount importance. The emphasis therefore remains on the provision of the means and measures necessary to deal with these two crises and to give a breath of oxygen to businesses and SMEs. This must ensure that all those who contribute to our prosperity are kept at work and that the recovery is implemented. In the longer term, there are other risks and challenges that we need to monitor. This must be done in a systematic manner, which is why this budgetary control also had a multiannual perspective, unlike previous years. Indeed, the CSF report indicates that it would be imprudent to assume that certain favourable macroeconomic elements such as low interest rates are permanent. The federal government shares this concern of the CSF and will already follow its recommendations in 2022 by making a structural effort of savings, if economic conditions permit. This variable structural effort as early as 2022 will depend on economic growth and recovery. The level of this variable effort will be set each year when the budget is drawn up on the basis of the latest figures from the economic budget of the Federal Planning Office. In the original budget, this effort was set at 0.2 per cent of GDP per year. Under the current circumstances, this means a structural improvement of EUR 997 million, EUR 2 billion and EUR 3.1 billion respectively for the period 2022-2024. Only this summer will the government determine what structural measures will be taken when the 2022 budget is drawn up. However, the objective is to distribute the total budgetary effort more or less equitably, i.e. both the fixed annual effort and the variable effort between revenue, expenditure and the various.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic539x.u70	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your complete answers. I support you in your policy of structural budgetary effort.
