ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic421x.u1	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to begin this exchange of views with a brief account of the facts as they have happened in recent days and weeks. Let me begin my presentation, not the weekend when the bpost board of directors decided to dismiss Mr. Van Avermaet as CEO, but in the period leading up to this event. Prior to the decision to terminate Mr. Van Avermaet, the government and I have communicated nuancedly on the position of the former CEO because it is not up to me to openly interfere in the day-to-day management and in the choices of autonomous public enterprises. As I explained in plenary last week as a minister, and as a government, it is necessary to maintain a difficult but important balance between, on the one hand, allowing an autonomous public enterprise to operate independently and, on the other hand, defending the interests of the taxpayer, the corporation, the state, as a principal shareholder. I repeat that this is a difficult but essential balance, which I am endeavouring to respect and maintain. Nevertheless, from day 1 at the beginning of October, I asked the Chairman of the Management Board for a solution and a transparent view of the procedures that are under way against the former CEO. I've been on that line forever. As I explained last week in the plenary session, the balance sheet was tilted during the week of 8 March. The bad annual figures were not the cause, but the drop too much. Some board members were found to have lost confidence in the CEO due to a persistent lack of transparency about the trial. The image damage for bpost was particularly high and the whole thing caused a lot of uncertainty among the 36,000 employees. The indispensable trust that must be enjoyed as a leader of one of our largest companies was being eroded. It is not a particular element but the accumulation of a whole series of things in recent weeks that has led to a loss of confidence. We've seen confidence in Mr. Van Avermaet declines within the company, board of directors, financial markets and government. I therefore acted in the interests of all employees and of the future of the company as a whole when I took the initiative to convene the government and send the message that the situation had become unsustainable. Immediately thereafter, the Board of Directors of Bpost decided to terminate its cooperation with Jean-Paul Van Avermaet in its capacity as CEO of Bpost with immediate effect. A week ago, on Tuesday, March 16, the bpost board of directors unanimously decided to appoint Dirk Tirez CEO ad interim from bpost Group. I am convinced that Mr. Tirez, with his long dedication to the company, is the right person to restore calm within the company. The Board of Directors also decided to speed up the selection of a new CEO by starting a procedure. The establishment of the procedure for the recruitment of a new CEO is a task for the Management Board. With regard to the timing of the search, an optimal balance between speed and thoroughness will be crucial. Although I am not involved in the recruitment process, I urge the board to look for a profile that appreciates the social role and added value of the job. One of the first tasks of the interim CEO and the new CEO will be to restore peace and social peace. For my part, I invited the unions to a virtual meeting yesterday. If I understood correctly, bpost management did the same. bpost has recently experienced a complicated and agitated period, especially for its staff. The company now needs to focus on the challenges it faces and work calmly on solutions for the future. Next, I would like to return to the role and functioning of the board, on which I received several questions. My initial reaction is still standing. First things first, bpost should first of all look for a new CEO. I would like to emphasise that I am pleased that on 14 March the Management Board took a decision on the position of the former CEO, which was no longer sustainable, and that on 16 March he gave rapid and unambiguous, unanimous, clarity and appointed an interim CEO to restore peace. So our first focus now must be on finding that new CEO. As regards the possible replacement or new composition of the Management Board, I can inform you that the replacement of several members of the Management Board was already planned in the near future, and that the other members of the Management Board are also due to expire within the term of this term of office. I would also point out that there will be a general meeting in the middle of May, without wishing to anticipate the facts here. I will conclude with a message of hope that I address in particular to the bpost staff. bpost is one of the largest companies in the country. This is not the first difficult moment this company has faced, for many years, fundamental changes in its historical professions. bpost and its staff have each been able to demonstrate their ability to respond to challenges and transform. Thus, through the work of everyone on bpost, in recent months, at the heart of the pandemic, the company has been able to cope with the explosion of the demand for online commerce and the new needs of its customers. I am confident in the ability of this company and its staff to find and implement solutions that will allow it both to absorb the structural decline in mail volumes and to redeploy by picking the fruits of the development of e-commerce. In particular, our role will be to provide the necessary support to the company to enable it to carry out its tasks and those entrusted to it. That is why we are beginning to work on the next management contract that we intend to conclude this year. Also in Dutch I wish to end with a message of hope. This is not the first, nor the last difficult moment that bpost is going through in a sector in full transformation. I have full confidence in the more than 36,000 employees of bpost in total, who are working day in day out for the company, for our society, for our economy, especially in these times of COVID-19. As a government, we should primarily support and facilitate bpost in carrying out their societal mission, and to that end we have also started negotiations on the seventh management contract. As I have stated on several occasions, I believe that a post office has much more potential than just being a post office. The unique office network of bpost can also be used for other tasks and meet other needs in our society. I am thinking, for example, of using our post offices in the fight against the digital divide. I would like to return to this committee in the near future for a specific debate on the seventh management agreement. In the meantime, I would like to conclude my introductory remarks and I would like to listen to your additional questions. Thank you for your attention. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic421x.u2	Madam Minister, thank you for your intervention. Sometimes it is feared that it will be too long, but that has not been the case, you have kept your time. The commission wanted your opinion on the bpost bank file. From the start, the goal was to question the CEO and then yourself about the evolution of bpost bank. You can already say a word now or answer the questions on the subject, it's as you want.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic421x.u3	Mr President, I prefer to answer the questions. It is important, as far as the bpost bank situation is concerned, that the committee be able to hear bpost management. This subject concerns bpost management, which is a little further away from my own mandate. I will gladly answer the questions that will be asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic421x.u4	We take note of your answer. I shall pass the floor to the members for their questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic421x.u5	Mr President, Minister, we actually had this debate in plenary a few days ago, so I will not repeat many things, but I have heard what you said about the search for a new CEO. As you said yourself, first of all, it is very important for the more than 30,000 employees of this company that someone who can be a fully-fledged CEO will soon return to their posts. I understand that the search for a CEO is separate from politics and that this is not something in which you or the government will interfere. Hence my question to you today whether you can say that the absurd idea of looking at a language role, where the CEO speaks a language and the chairman of the board of directors has to speak another language or come from another region, is an outdated concept that must be referred to the garbage basket as a matter of urgency. We need to find the right person... man, woman, X... with the right capabilities to run this company. The language role is an outdated idea for my party and perhaps this is the right time to say once and for all that we will leave that story of the past as well. We have an opportunity today to instruct the headhunters' agency to find an appropriate CEO. As you know, discrimination based on sex, origin or belief is illegal. This is also the case for discrimination based on language. I do not understand the idea that as a government we discriminate on the basis of language and say that the chairman of the board is a French-speaking one and the director must therefore be a Dutch-speaking one. I'm pretty new in politics. I cannot explain that to others, and I never understood it myself. Let's get rid of that for once and for all. I am asking you, the government and colleagues whether we will not be ready to do so in 2021.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic421x.u6	Mr. Chair, Madam Minister, I thank you for the brief reminder of the various facts that led to the decision that was made at the level of the bpost board of directors. As for the retroact and the elements that led to this decision, things are now quite clear. We had already received explanations in plenary. But today you have completed them. I would like to say that, even if you did not make the decision, the initiative that you took and that was validated by the government was entirely relevant, fair and necessary to restore confidence. bpost is not just any company since it is a company where there is public participation. It was therefore legitimate for the authorities and the government to be able, at some point, to draw attention to the existence of difficulties or troubling elements such as the breakdown of social dialogue. Your intervention was absolutely desirable at this very moment in the evolution of the case, in view of this rupture in early March. As far as financial results are concerned, we are instead part of the management and management register. As such, we would have liked to hear from the former Bpost CEO about CONNECT 2026, but also about other management-related issues. I would like to ask you some additional questions about the past and the confidence that has been lost under the former CEO of bpost. The results were consistent with bpost estimates, but nevertheless had a negative effect on the value of bpost. How do you explain these results? Is it correct, as has been reported in some press articles, that bpost had to bear additional costs, in particular related to subcontracting, in order to cope with the volume of parcels in 2020? It is an interesting element to know the bpost's ability to meet this type of challenge and to deal with the urgency, but also to have an idea of its prospects in terms of missions for the future. To return to the past, it has been several months since the breakdown of confidence was in the air. In this committee, we have had discussions about the departure of senior managers. The departure of Mr. Van Avermaet is a departure that comes in addition to that of various personalities recognized for their experience and qualities.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic421x.u7	Do you have an analysis of these departures? Have you, the new CEO of bpost and the Chairman of the Board of Directors, been able to discuss this leak of experienced and recognized people within bpost? This problem also concerns the linguistic balance in the functions within bpost, a balance to which we are attached. Still in relation to the epilogue on Mr. Van Avermaet, the former CEO, as part of a meeting with financial analysts, announced significant cost reductions for 2022. Do you know the scope of his intentions? Have you had any discussions on the subject? I would now like to welcome your comments on the profile of the future CEO of bpost and the exchange that you have already had – even if you will not be at the manoeuvring – to recall the societal and environmental objectives that we are entitled to expect for bpost and that are reflected in your policy statement. Thank you for this and thanks also for the attention you have wished to give in your efforts and expressions with regard to the resumption of social dialogue. It seems to me that this element is fundamental. You recalled the figures at the employment level. Bpost staff have been heavily solicited in recent months as a result of the health crisis and the explosion in the number of parcels. He deserves all our respect. The saga that has occurred and the expressions that have been perceived in the press in terms of cost and personnel seem to me extremely harsh and unrewarding. In your words, it seems to me that you have put the bar back and reminded the staff of all the respect we have to show. To conclude my speech, I would like to say a word from bpost bank. Mr. Delizée addressed the issue. CONNECT was also on the agenda of the committee and you mentioned the management contract. Do you have any idea the impact of the episode we are experiencing on these different issues? As far as bpost bank is concerned, do you have any additional guarantees in view of the last debate we held in committee on maintaining the employment of bpost and bpost bank staff, but also local services for all citizens throughout the country? It is well known that bpost bank is not a bank like any other, and that it offers a number of offers to citizens, especially to the most disadvantaged, which it is important to preserve. Have you ever had an exchange on this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic421x.u8	Minister, for the Socialist Party, the post is a very important public enterprise. It is old, it has its history, it has been providing a lot of services to our fellow citizens for a very long time, and it must also adapt in a changing world, in a changing society. It is also attached to the public service and universal service tasks defined in the management contract. When we have on the agenda "State of the bpost situation", we think of the discussions, the negotiations, the reflection on the seventh contract for the management of the post, which is very important since it defines its missions. Of course, we wish to continue to guarantee these public service tasks in the future management contract that ends this year. bpost is also a public company of proximity, with factors that criss-cross our country from coast to coast in our cities and countryside, and which provide in particular a distribution of mail. It is also our network of 1,300 post offices or post points throughout the territory. These are assets of our public enterprise and we must guarantee that, of course. Finally, bpost is also an employer of tens of thousands of workers. It is clear that maintaining employment and the quality of employment is also an issue for the future: to provide opportunities for non-relocable jobs and to be able to live properly from that job. On the whole, there are probably weaknesses but there are also advantages: a relative good reputation with our fellow citizens, the quality of delivery of mail throughout the country. As far as the CEO is concerned, personally, I will not dwell on the individual or on his dismissal because, finally, the CEOs follow each other. What is important is the projects for the future, the vision of the company and the services to our citizens. That's what counts. I will, of course, listen to your answers about the timetable, how things are going to happen in the near future and how the dismissal will take place. It is obviously important to have the right person in this essential function. I'm not going back to the past. After the 2019 elections, Mr. Koen Van Gerven came to take stock of his mandate. This had given rise to some debate. This already brings us back a little bit. The debate was rich and also partly controversial. Mr. Van Avermaet didn't stay long. He arrived at the same time as the covid, in a very special year. Unfortunately, the covid is still there. But we don't really have a step backwards to make an evaluation or an assessment at that level. I think we must now look at the future and see what will be done by the bpost bodies, by the future CEO and by the appointed CEO ad interim, Mr Tirez. However, I would like to address the issue of banking services, which for me was an integral part of our exchange. In general, banking exclusion is an important societal theme that is addressed in Parliament, particularly in our Committee on the Economy. At the level of the Socialist Group, it is Christophe Lacroix who is very at the forefront of this issue. There are, in fact, new forms of precariousness for a number of citizens compared to banking services, linked to the rise in the prices of banking operations, the greatest difficulty of access to agencies that are closed, to counters that are abolished or to distributors. There has been a lot of citizen mobilization on the fact that banks reduce the number of ticket distributors and have gathered a little to pool future costs. I will mention in particular the Batopin project, which brings together the four major banks and the JoFiCo project, which brings together five banks, including the post office bank. There is therefore this general debate on the fight against bank exclusion. There is, of course, the issue of digitalisation, which provides a lot of services. Digital banking for a number of bank customers is easy and efficient. Unfortunately, on the other hand, there is a growing digital divide. In any case, a number of our older or weaker citizens do not get away with it and need a local service. Being elected from a commune and a rural area, it is known that banks desert villages, rural communes but also popular neighbourhoods for reasons of profitability. We must be able to guarantee a bank presence. It is true that the post office bank, bpost bank, is probably the bank that welcomes a certain public who would not easily find a reception in private banks even if the law says that basic banking services must be provided. Unfortunately, it must be noted that private banks do not play the game and are not in solidarity. In fact, all banks should provide a basic banking service and even beyond the banking service. As far as ticket distributors are concerned, it is well known that among the public service missions, bpost must compensate for the installation of distributors when there is no other bank providing the service. I hope that the JoFiCo system will not cause the post office bank to reduce its distributors in rural communities in the future. More specifically, about BNP Paribas Fortis' offer, you are of course the minister and you are not in the business. I understand that we need to question the CEO, what we were planning to do and what we will probably do, but at this point, you are in a position to have information. What is the status of the negotiations? Has a decision been taken at this stage either formally or informally? Above all, whatever the decision, what are the guarantees to maintain the banking services now rendered by bpost? I believe that we are attentive to the guarantees for what I called "precarious" customers to have access to financial services beyond basic banking services as defined in the law. Another element is the guarantees of the sustainability of these banking services over time, i.e. beyond an eight- or nine-year agreement that could or could not be concluded. We want to maintain guarantees for these customers but also a guarantee compared to the workers now employed at bpost bank. In order to achieve these objectives, I would like to make some reflections and raise some points which we believe are important. From our point of view, it is not inevitable to have to separate at any cost from bpost bank. Is this track being examined by bpost instances? Does bpost seek a partnership with a public bank? In fact, there is one, Belfius, saved by the state during the banking and financial crisis that we have experienced. Have there been any contacts with Belfius or are there still contacts with Belfius? Could Belfius not be a public partner if a bank were to be added to the post office bank. What is Belfius' reaction? Does it interest this bank to do so, to your knowledge? The question is asked in both directions. In the discussions, it seems to us essential to be attentive to the rights of the most vulnerable and, Madam Minister, to include in the contract for the management of new services of general economic interest. Why not? Finally, I would like to refer to the broader future of the company and to the expectations of the seventh management contract. I reiterate our support for your efforts in this direction, to maintain public service missions and uniform distribution throughout the territory, so that "less profitable" regions are not forgotten. I think that if we look at the status of the case, it seems necessary to redefine or strengthen the social role of the factor. This is a concern in the management contract. We are also attentive to investment in equipment. I talked about a changing world. We have, at one point, heard questions about the number of packages and packages that are centralized and distributed throughout the territory by bpost. We also want the company to keep a good place in the delivery market for parcels and packages throughout the country. Investments must be balanced between the various regions of the country. It is also a way of supporting small businesses. With the covid crisis, online commerce has grown even more rapidly, with the exception of this natural trend. This trend must be kept in mind. This may not be the only diversification of the fact that mail is decreasing. We have always seen the decline curves of the traditional postal mail, which was the basic mission of the "old" post. In any case, this is an important element of diversification and maintenance of employment. I believe that at the end of last year, bpost had to hire staff on an exceptional basis. Some workers may have stayed beyond the peak period of activity. I will conclude by referring to two points related to the management contract and the future of the position. This is about the quality of employment, but also, even if it is not entirely within your competence, social legislation in relation to false self-employed people. There is indeed competition for deregulation and for breaking working conditions. I think that, together with your colleagues, you must also tackle the phenomena of the precariousness of certain jobs and false self-employment. I come to the end of the social dialogue. This is a very large company that employs many workers. We are talking about the evolution of the markets, about pilot delivery experiments on Sundays... Could you tell us a word about the state of the dialogue on this issue? Are we moving towards a social agreement on this point? What is the status of the ongoing negotiations? These were, in short, some points of attention that my group and I wanted to raise during this exchange.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic421x.u9	As President, he usually also uses the time limits to be applied flexibly, depending on the subject matter and the debate that is taking place. This is, of course, an important debate that we must be able to carry out. I am happy to give the floor to Mrs Dewulf.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic421x.u10	Thank you for your thorough explanation. You have already answered several questions in the plenary session of Thursday 18 March 2021, but I still have some questions to which I have not yet received an answer. Probably didn't hear them right. Is vision 2026 being continued? Madam Secretary, do you have any idea when and in what time period a new permanent CEO can be appointed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic421x.u11	Thank you, Mrs Dewulf. That was short and concise.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic421x.u12	Madam Minister, thank you for the few explanations about this meeting. Since several remarks have already been made by my colleagues, I am going to shorten my speech, focusing on the role of bpost in relation to competition. The company just went through a moment that looked like a Chinese torture, as the CEO's situation was particularly difficult. The pressure from the unions was strong, while the image of society was rather disgusted. Therefore, it is urgent that bpost not be distanced by its main competitors such as PostNL, DHL or others. For this reason, it is important to react quickly. You took part in this test operation that we saw in the TV news a few days ago. This is very good, but the question of the competitive nature of the company remains. The latter must be competitive during this year, in order to absorb the losses recorded - including on the stock exchange - during the last few months. Similarly, since bpost is a historic company in Belgium, it must regain its place with consumers. As the president has said, beyond a national company, bpost offers the image of a service that, almost daily, circulates in the streets in a very visible way. Minister, where are we competitive with rivals such as PostNL or other actors? Do you fear that the bpost figures in 2021 will suffer from the crisis we are going through? Finally, what do you intend to do to improve the image of bpost among consumers? That seems essential to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic421x.u13	Madam Minister, I have already asked you a few questions in plenary. As you know, the PVDA considers the social role of the post to be very important. You keep saying that this also applies to you. Staff are also entitled to good working conditions. The figures brought out were a blow to the face of the many thousands of workers who turned off their nickel during the corona period. It was very difficult work back then. In plenary, you told me that the figures were not the cause of the dismissal. Today you say that they were not the cause but the drop too much. I believe that the fact that the figures were bad was a big drop. We welcome the dismissal of Mr Van Avermaet. We conducted a small survey of the employees and 92 percent thought it was a good thing he was fired. I had asked a second question which is very important to the staff, will Mr Van Avermaet receive a pay or a parachute? In the meantime, you have had time to check this and we would very much like an answer to that. This is a very sensitive issue for the workers. If you want to restart the social dialogue, it is very important that employees know whether or not they will receive compensation. Happened his resignation because of a serious mistake, didn't it? This is a very important question for the thousands of workers who have broken down over the past period. I'll come to bpost bank. Is there any possibility of withdrawing the privatisation of bpost bank now that a new CEO will be set up? The figures indicate that this was not such a good deal. Apparently, they sold under the price. In fact, I find it unbelievable that one could give bpost bank so easily in private hands. So we certainly want another debate on the whole matter of bpost bank. As the previous speakers said, bpost bank is an important public bank that should also serve the population. Madam Secretary, how will you now look for a new CEO? We wonder whether it would not be a good idea to involve the trade union organizations as well. After all, they know who is capable of the company and who is not. We should not always look externally, but there can also be good candidates for CEO's post internally. How do you estimate the role of the current chairman of the board of directors of bpost, Mr Cornelis? How do you see his future? Is he gonna sit there or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic421x.u14	Madam Secretary, thank you for your explanation. As in the plenary, you gave a very clear explanation of the situation and the steps that have been taken to date. So a lot of questions have been answered. Colleagues have also asked a lot of questions. I will not repeat my questions from last Thursday. I would like to echo your words and express my thanks to all the staff who have shown a great deal of commitment over the past year. They were under enormous pressure, in difficult circumstances. It is therefore important for me that confidence be restored in the short term and that peace be restored in the interests of the staff, but also of the customers and shareholders. As you pointed out, it is not your job to do the day-to-day work, but a long-term vision with a management agreement and a clear objective is necessary. I'm looking forward to it. We really need to grow back into one of Belgium's top companies, as we were until a few years ago. We now really need to focus on the future where we stand strong for the huge challenges that are coming towards us in a rapidly changing world. I'd like to go into this in more detail during a hearing. In my view, it is really necessary to deal with this problem. I would like to ask a number of questions today. Can you go into more detail about the main causes of the disappointing results and how bpost will address them? End of 2020 put a lot of pressure and was heavy for bpost. People have managed to bring everything to everyone's homes and have shown great commitment. I am concerned about the coming year 2021. It will be a while before we get there, but we need to start preparing in time. Are there any forecasts as to the number of packages expected and the number of temporary workers that would be needed? If the economy, hopefully, is back on its feet, it might be harder to find people. Is this being taken into account? How does that play out?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic421x.u15	Mr President, I will try to respond globally, but I will go into detail when the questions asked so require. I would like to thank you for the additional questions, which I have understood to be taken back to some of the things I had actually said and which I may have to repeat briefly. As you know and I repeat, regarding the resignation of Mr Van Avermaet, the board of directors of bpost has decided to appoint the CEO ad interim and to launch the search for the new CEO. I will respect the chronology and start with Mrs Vindevoghel's question about a possible discharge. The Board of Directors of Bpost is currently examining the file. I have a personal view on this, including the level of possible redundancy payments. However, you should know that there are certain contractual rules on dismissal and dismissal payments which must be respected, which are legally established and which entail contractual rights and obligations, both for employees and for managers. I repeat that I may have my opinion on ethical accountability for certain amounts, but at the moment bpost is involved in a legal discussion with Mr Van Avermaet about the terms of dismissal in function of the contract and the reasons for its termination, aside from the moral aspects. This is a legal story in which I cannot intervene myself. It is quite possible that it will eventually be decided by a court of law. It is not for me to comment on this at this time. Mrs Vindevoghel, perhaps that is already a comforting element of answer for you. Several members have asked questions about the recruitment of a new CEO, including Mrs Vindevoghel and Mr Freilich. The procedure for recruiting the CEO is entrusted by the Board of Directors and the remuneration and nomination committee not only the way it will proceed, but also those who are all involved in it to external experts, in particular the headhunter Korn Ferry. So that has nothing to do with us. A recruitment procedure has been initiated. We have, of course, indicated what the profile of the future CEO should be. I will repeat what I said earlier. It must be someone who is able to manage such a complex company in a rapidly evolving, highly competitive market in a good and sustainable way. I repeat that sustainability means three aspects: economically sustainable, socially sustainable and environmentally sustainable. I'll come back to those two. This is absolutely the most important criterion for the search for the CEO, in addition to the social added value of such a company. This means that it has to be someone who also pays attention to the public service that bpost has, who is in touch with it. We must try to find that person as soon as possible. That is, of course, a major task for the board of directors and the headhunter working on it. They could be internal candidates of bpost. To answer Mr Freilich's question, I personally find the language issue subordinate to the profile and quality of the CEO to be put forward. That is something that is statutory, of course you know that. As far as I am concerned, that will be discussed in second place, should we have several candidates who are considered fit to lead bpost as CEO. Questions have been asked about timing by Mr Delizée and Mrs Dewulf. This will, of course, take a number of months. We will not find such a person in two weeks' time, especially if an external candidate is chosen. We need a good balance, a good balance between speed and thoroughness, quality, as I said in my introduction. The best candidate must be appointed. If that takes a few weeks longer, so be it. I can tell you that the procedure has been speeded up by the Governing Board. The headhunter is already working on that. Another important issue, about which several of you asked questions, is bpost bank and the strategic plan Connect 26. Given the importance of the continuity of these two dossiers, despite the departure of the former CEO, I believe that the Management Board and the CEO will continue these files ad interim. Mrs Vindevoghel, the plans for participation in bpost bank, the sale to GNP, will not suddenly be stopped, and if that is the case, I will hear it. I believe that these participation plans will continue. Since these negotiations are still ongoing, I cannot tell you any more about them now. Mr Delizée, you asked the same questions as you asked during our last exchange. There are no new elements, as far as I know. Negotiations between BNP Paribas and bpost are still ongoing. I would like to go back to the elements we discussed last time: the guarantees for employment and the maintenance of services. A long-term partnership between bpost and BNP Paribas is always guaranteed, but I am not in a position to mention the duration of the partnership. You insist on being able to audition the CEO ad interim to ask him where we are. He is well aware of these negotiations; he knows the status of the guarantees which interest you and which interest me equally, I repeat. In this case, the board of directors of bpost is a priori involved. As I have already told you, I was informed at the end of 2020 and I look forward to developments in the matter. You will understand that the discussions I have with bpost and top management revolve around topics you know: BNP and bpost want a sustainable business relationship that guarantees services, a common outreach strategy aimed at offering financial services via a network of agencies close to the citizen. That is what we find important; that is what will be put on the table and negotiated. We will see how we can agree on this. On the subject of staff, I repeat what I have already said: bpost bank employees remain under bpost bank contract, which continues to exist. Participation is changing. As far as bpost employees are concerned, they of course remain bpost employees, since it is indeed bpost that will continue to serve bpost bank customers via the post office network. As you can see, these are not new elements. I don't have one! The negotiations are ongoing. I was told that these negotiations would run for at least another four months. The first conversations date from the beginning of this year. I assume it will be concluded in April. As you wanted to do last week, you may want to ask for the OCE ad interim interview as soon as possible to deepen the discussion. Mrs Dewulf, Connect 26 is, of course, a strategic plan of the board of directors and management, which I have taken note of and taken note of. I can imagine, since the CEO is no longer there and there is a change coming, that in the coming months and as soon as the calm has returned, the plan itself will be re-evaluated or re-evaluated, especially if changes are made to the board of directors in the coming months, given the changing context. I suggest that you take this question with you to a hearing with the ad interim CEO, which has been very closely involved so far, and which will of course remain in the continuation of the strategic plan. I have also spoken a number of times about the effects of what we are now experiencing on the company itself. The communication around bpost has not been so positive and a number of executives have left the company. The Common Trade Union Front has written an open letter in which it has clearly expressed its concerns. On 4 March, if I am not mistaken, the trade unions also stopped social dialogue. In any case, there has already been a response to the concerns of the CEO's ad interim trade unions, which I saw yesterday in a joint consultation. We have discussed a number of issues: the events of recent weeks, the plan Connect 26, the role that the government sees as public sector posts and, of course, the management contract that we are negotiating with as social, environmental and economic sustainability aspects. We have also spoken for a moment about the rapid test project that started yesterday in Brussels X, which started today in Charleroi and Ghent, but I will come back to that later on in response to another question. To answer your question, Mr Delizée, it was agreed with the unions to resume the social dialogue with the management of the company. I strongly insisted that this be the case, although, given the fact that it will take a few months before the appointment of a new CEO, they asked me whether it would be better to wait to resume negotiations. I asked them to sit down, on the assumption that there are enough subjects that require social dialogue. I also informed them that I was fully available to participate and facilitate the dialogue informally, if necessary, with the aim of understanding everyone's concerns. It is, in my view, important to regain confidence and work together to have a strong public enterprise, in the interests of customers, staff, the Belgian State, shareholders and other stakeholders. I think we all share that commitment. At least that's what I'm expecting. Let me turn to Mr Parent's question on linguistic representativeness. This will be one of the elements that will be taken into account in the changes in the composition of the Group Executive Committee. We made it clear that we must strive to achieve a better linguistic balance, even if the law at that level does not require it. I will come back to that later in my answer to a question from Mr Delizée. You asked a lot of questions about bpost's annual results. Mrs Vindevoghel, I have indeed said that it is not the reason but the straw that the stock market has not responded in a reassuring way to the presentation of these annual results. When I talked to the management of bpost, as well as to the syndicates, those results were less negative than what might have appeared in the press. Bpost has a business profit of 28 million euros, whereas in December it was predicted that it would be 270 million euros. I agree with you that perhaps it should have been much more, but now proposing bpost as a company that has lost or is in a very bad state of affairs is violence. There are a number of reasons why bpost may have benefited less from increased online sales and parcel deliveries than some competitors. It is good that in this committee we can go into more detail about the various elements that explain that result. I could not do that last week in plenary. Postal volumes have fallen and e-commerce has increased due to digitisation and yet again due to the covid pandemic. That's not news, of course. The turnover of historical activities, such as mail and post offices, has been negatively affected. The exact figures may be known to you. For the mail, this is 84 million euros less revenue. For retail, so the post offices, that's 76 million euros less revenue. In 2020 there was also a huge volume decrease, of 12%. This is an increase in the decrease compared to 2019. Then it was 7 %. In 2018 it was 6 %. It was 6% in 2017 and 5% in 2016. The drop in mail volumes accelerates. That is, of course, worrying. It's not a linear drop, it's an accelerated drop. From March to May 2020, people would think that they have written more letters. Absolutely not. Then there was even a decrease of 20%. The reason has nothing to do with letters, but it has to do with the fact that no advertising leaflets were distributed. That's what we've been talking about for a while. The packages and logistics have compensated for some of this, but only in part. On the other hand, there are also depreciations, including of bpost bank. That's what you've been able to read. There are a number of external factors that may be the result of the past, but which are also certainly an effect of the covid pandemic. In addition, Bpost made additional investments, with recruitment of staff in the second wave at the end of last year, additional infrastructure, additional cars and the launch of a separate, new sorting centre. All these, of course, have been additional costs that have been skimming the profits of the packages. I will explain the wage and working conditions further later. They are of a different nature and order from that of competitors. We can regret that, or we may be able to agree with that, but it will all have had an impact on the figures. The conclusion is actually an answer to Mrs Verhaert's questions. We are fully engaged in the business transformation of a postal company into e-commerce. It certainly needs to be speeded up. That's obvious. The e-mail drop is accelerating. So we need to make that transition faster. Therefore, the government also raised no objection to the deletion of the dividend. Bpost will also invest more than 200 million euros in 2021, for example in the opening of Active Ants in the summer. I will discuss this later on in an oral question. That transition must accelerate, not only for bpost, but also for other players on the market. For a company such as bpost, this must be done in consultation with the syndicated organisations. Bpost should continue to play its role as a sustainable employer. Mr Parent, sustainability means that bpost must also invest in ecological sustainability – we are all aware that this transition must be achieved – for economic sustainability at the parcel market level and for social sustainability. Working and wage conditions are important and must also be taken into account when observing the figures I have just mentioned. Some things come with a price tag, of course. As bpost packages generally deliver with its own staff in Belgium, it has a negative competitive position on the market. That was asked by Mr Burton. This is in relation to a question by Mr Burton on the position of competition. In terms of parcels, the bpost position on the market is not the best. Indeed, bpost competitors and others – trade unions confirm this – do not always respect tax and social security obligations. It is about the so-called level playing field, which we must ensure, so that there is no distortion on the market. That is something we must look at. Proper remuneration for parcel delivery companies is really an important aspect for the government. Bpost also wants to continue working with its own staff for the delivery of the packages. She wants the work done by her own people against decent working and wage conditions. It's in bpost's DNA and has to stay in there. Mr Delizée, I can confirm that my firm has already started joint work with the firms of my colleagues Pierre-Yves Dermagne and Vincent Van Peteghem with a view to equal conditions of competition in the Belgian parcel market. On the basis of questions that are still pending, I shall certainly come back to that later. Mrs Verhaert, you asked a question about the prospects, the projections of bpost, the future. Bpost continues to record large volumes. During the first lockdown, bpost has brought in new e-commerce customers and the number of retailers has also increased over the internet, so bpost informed me. It looks like this is permanent, resulting in a structurally higher package volume than before the covid crisis. We will have to wait and see if this will continue after the crisis. Your question whether preparations are already being made before the end of the year is very relevant. I can tell you that the CEO has already addressed me on an ad interim basis and that he is already working on this. I think it is a good sign that the 2020 lessons are being taken to heart and that Bpost is already preparing for an increase in the fourth quarter of this year. I will, of course, follow that very closely, but I am already reassured. Bpost is working on several operational scenarios. For the more operational parts, I understand that you may still have questions about whether all the questions have been answered. I repeat, for more operational questions, please invite the OCE ad interim to your commission and question it because one of its current functions is to ensure the continuity of bpost management! He'll be quite able to reassure you. I think I've covered most of the cases with this. Mr Delizée, the concession is not my responsibility, but that of Mr Dermagne. Of course, I am very interested and concerned about the subject because it represents about 4,000 bpost jobs. It is therefore very important for the company. But this discussion will take place with Mr Dermagne. You also talked about the quality of employment and union consultation. I think I answered. I come to the importance of the network for factors and post offices, etc. We will discuss this when we continue discussions on the seventh management contract; I think I have already indicated that. This is an extremely important subject and we will return to it in committee with you, since I absolutely want to hear your ideas and suggestions to bring them into the ongoing negotiations with bpost. Finally, Mrs Vindevoghel, you have also asked questions about the governing board and the role of the chairman. On this point, I refer to what I said in my introduction. There will certainly be changes. There are a number of people whose terms of office expire, and so there will be shifts in that board of directors. We still have time for that. First things first. The general meeting will take place in May. It is clear that you will be kept informed of the changes that will take place on that point, but I do not want to anticipate them. I hope, Mr. President, I haven't been too long. But I believe that questions of such importance deserved a substantial answer. I also hope to have answered all these questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic421x.u16	I think it is important to take time to give answers rather than to make lengthy introductory presentations, which would be less rich in content. That is also the purpose of the exchange of views.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic421x.u17	Mr President, I thank the Minister and the various colleagues for the rich exchanges. This almost brings us back to an atmosphere of discussion around a general policy note as we have touched on, and the minister has raised various points which clearly show that we are at a crucial moment for bpost and its future. In view of the answers given, I would like to welcome the serenity with which Mrs De Sutter responded on Thursday and today. This is important and it is already preparing this work of restoring trust by being able to provide clear answers on the balances, the necessity and the availability also in relation to the resumption of social dialogue, by being able also to place in its proper place the questions of health and bpost performance today, beyond the many analyses to which we have been entitled for the past 15 days. I would also like to thank you for your clarification of the language balance. It is also a matter of dealing with social dialogue and the issues that have increased mistrust between workers' representatives and management in recent months. In the future, I also think, and not surprisingly, as has been said, including by the minister, that it is essential to hear from the intermediate CEO of bpost. Indeed, the stakes programmed within this commission, namely Connect and bpost bank, are essential. You recalled, Madam Minister, the timetable for the bpost bank agenda. I think there is an urgent need to audition in this area. Indeed – and Mr Delizée has expressed this in his speech – there are not only issues of employment, of banking services to citizens beyond the question of distributors, but also of banking services at post office counters. In doing so, it is obviously to support the digital divide or the issue of banking services that you share with other ministers, including Minister Dermagne, through his expertise with regard to Befius and banking services. You have also done well to clarify the current collaborations. On the other hand, bpost is a changing company today and the tensions that can occur between workers and management are also explained by this context of change, which raises a series of questions, to which we will have to confront the intermediate ceo of bpost. I also consider it appropriate to hear representatives of workers in this context and in this sense of resumption of dialogue and confidence, because, on the one hand, the company is changing, on the other hand, questions have arisen, not to mention the weight of this change and the transformation of the economic model of bpost. In this context, and in order to feed the reflections and debates on the construction of the next bpost management contract, I would find it interesting that our committee could have a moment with the workers' representatives to develop, beyond management, a series of strategic stakes with them to fuel the democratic debate around bpost to which we are obviously many attached. We are also committed to the role of its social missions vis-à-vis citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic421x.u18	I will reply at the end; I will allow the other colleagues to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic421x.u19	Mr. President, just a few moments. Thank you, minister, for your clarification. We will, of course, remain attentive to the evolution of society and to the next steps. I would just like to reinforce somewhat what Mr Parent has said. It is essential that we have an audition with the ad interim CEO of bpost, and the unions if necessary, so that we can have a clear vision of what is going on there and see how things are going to change.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic421x.u20	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answers. I've got three more dots. First of all, I'm still not comfortable in those golden parachutes when I hear there's gonna be lawsuits. I would also like to remind you that the previous CEO, Mr van Gerven, received half a million euros in order not to work. People haven't forgotten that. If Mr Van Avermaet were to be rewarded, it would be a mistake for the workers. Secondly, I would like to say a few words about the figures. The sale of bpost bank has made the figures worse, you did not say that immediately. The stock market is worried about that, so maybe it's time for the government to take it back. That would certainly be best, because bpost is an important public undertaking for us. Thirdly, I am also concerned about the further privatisation of bpost bank. I do not think it is a good thing that Mr Tirez is also chairman of the board of directors of bpost bank. Like colleagues, we are asking for an audition and also to invite the trade unions to do so. That would be a good thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic421x.u21	Minister, thank you also for your answers. We had a rich and dense debate on bpost. I won't say "for once" because it happens from time to time. We often have discussions on SNCB and Infrabel, and it is good that we also have an in-depth interest in our committee in the situation of the public postal company. As for bpost bank, you understand that this is obviously a sensitive subject for all the reasons I mentioned earlier. I am obviously a little hungry in terms of answers. As the appropriate minister, you have a role in relation to public enterprises in general. This one, unlike the others, is listed on the stock exchange. I understand that there are also limits to this role. However, who else can influence, intervene or give direction to those who are discussing? That's why we turn to you to try to move in the right direction. As far as Belfius is concerned, I can hear that there are collaborations. My question went a little further and was about whether Belfius could not have been the bank partner of bpost bank. This went a little further than more ad hoc collaborations. As to the conclusion of our committee's work, we agreed to take stock of the follow-up to this exchange. Almost everyone wanted us to be able to audition the new CEO ad interim, Mr. Tirez. That seems to be a consensus. I think there is also a request to meet with trade union organisations. I do not know if there are many of us to decide formally, but if the committee agrees, all groups together, we can programme things, of course, that the two will not come at the same time. These auditions would take place "in separate chambers," if I may say so. If the committee agrees, we could move forward in this way in a very tight timetable because we were told that the offer was valid until 31 March. You talked about April, but in the meantime there is the Easter period. The calendar is therefore very tight to program this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic421x.u22	Minister, would you still like to add something after the replies, or can we just stand there for the moment?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic421x.u23	Mr President, I have nothing more to add. Questions will come back on the subject again.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic421x.u24	Minister, thank you for participating in this exchange. We will therefore invite Mr Tirez and the trade union organisations to hear them on the subject. We have, of course, taken note of all the replies given, bearing in mind that the various subjects which have been discussed will be followed up. Colleagues, may I take it that the questions that have been attached to this debate have been answered? [[Sentiment]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic421x.u25	Madam Secretary, several Internet users were the victims of internal summits. The victims were waiting for a package and received a text. Supposedly, that text came from bpost. It also said that shipping costs had to be paid. I quote: "Belgian web stores are vulnerable to cyber attacks. Hackers can easily penetrate almost one in five web sites of companies and governments." Firstly, how will outdated technology like bpost be dealt with? Secondly, will the victims be compensated? Thirdly, how many victims have already registered or complained about these practices?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic421x.u26	Thank you, Mrs Dewulf, for your questions. I would like to begin by saying that a distinction must be made. On the one hand, there is the issue of cyber attacks against vulnerable websites of companies and governments, on which your quote and the accompanying study of the advisory office BDO refers. Those attacks are, in other words, specifically targeted at organisations themselves. For more specific information on cyber attacks and cybersecurity, please refer to Prime Minister De Croo, under whose jurisdiction the Centre for Cyber Security Belgium is. On the other hand, you are talking about a specific form of Internet fraud, i.e. phishing via SMS, sometimes also called smishing, where crooks pose as a trustworthy business and unsuspecting citizens contact in the hope that someone will fall into the trap. The company, in this case bpost, is completely outside of this and only afterwards finds out that its good name was used fraudulently. Bpost is not himself involved in phishing attacks. Bpost indicates that cybersecurity is a constant point of improvement or focus for the company. It does take action, some of which are specifically directed against the problem of phishing. The public is warned about these practices through the website of bpost and social media channels. Bpost also advises customers to be careful when they are contacted. Bpost also has a program that performs continuous screening of different parts of the Internet, such as the public network, the deepweb and the darkweb, to receive timely signals about any attacks being prepared. Even if it is noted that domain names similar to those of bpost are used by third parties, bpost will try to have them blocked. Since bpost is not involved in the phishing attack, it cannot grant compensation. The judicial authorities, the BIPT, the operators and the financial institutions work together to combat the phenomenon, whoever the victim is, bpost or another company. This means that our colleagues from other institutions, such as the CCB or the FPS Economy, are also working on this. On the basis of the consultation with my colleague, the Minister for Economic Affairs, I can tell you that consumers have already reported such fraudulent practices to the focal point of the FPS Economy. The Economic Inspectorate of the FPS Economy tries to raise awareness among consumers and businesses through its means of communication to prevent others from falling into the trap of this economic fraud. I hope my answer has shed some light on what is happening, who is involved and who is competent to do something about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic421x.u27	Thank you for your full reply, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic421x.u28	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Francken's 55013638C was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic421x.u29	Madam Minister, there are complaints about the slow delivery of mail, missing postal items and the fact that there is not enough separation between prior consignments and non-priority consignments. Every now and then, bpost doesn't even find shipments. New on the market is that one can trace letters via stamps with some sort of QR code. The German post brought such stamps into circulation. Thanks to this code one can see when the letter arrived in the distribution center near the destination. This could also help to deal with problems more quickly during processing. Now that a lot of QR code is being worked on, can't that interesting way of working get in touch with bpost?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic421x.u30	Thank you, Mrs Dewulf, for your suggestion, but I would like to point out that registered shipments and packages are already using the system. However, for letters, a product treated in larger volumes and whose price is much lower than that of registered shipments and packages, it is different. The development of a QR system requires specific solutions, for example for the franking of stamps. It is also important to note that depending on the location of the francation and the colour of the francation, the matrix code can be easily unreadable. That could stop the tracking. I can tell you that bpost is in contact with Deutsche Post to see if the solutions used in Germany are also technically possible in Belgium. Bpost also wants to use innovative new technologies for its activities. Finally, bpost must comply with quality requirements for the delivery of letters imposed by the State in the universal service management contract. The BIPT has commissioned a specialised company to measure compliance with these quality requirements through the placement of transponders in test letters. So we are certainly working on such systems.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic421x.u31	Mr President, Minister, bpost has started on Sunday deliveries, mainly because of competition with PostNL. However, PostNL is not too close to social and fiscal legislation. The Dutch Postgroup PostNL, the third largest player in the Belgian parcel market, works differently from bpost. All kinds of companies are allowed to distribute parcels for PostNL as subcontractors or subcontractors. They conclude a transport agreement with PostNL Packages Belgium, based in Turnhout. Bpost delivers almost half of the packages in Belgium, but still manages to have almost all packages and postal items delivered by its own staff. However, PostNL works with independent couriers. That opens the door to abuse and fraud. That proves this investigation by the Special Tax Inspectorate. PostNL therefore works with independent subcontractors to be the cheapest to maximise profits while the risks of legal proceedings for infringement lie with subcontractors. The BBI is currently investigating tax fraud committed by numerous subcontractors at PostNL. It is actually a question of millions of euros in tax claims. PostNL removes any responsibility, while bpost and bpost workers may be the main victims of this unfair competition. How did the first Sunday deliveries of bpost go? Is the consumer asking for this? How many independent couriers are active at peak moments at bpost? And how can Bpost ensure that subcontractors are okay with Belgian tax and social legislation? Bpost is clearly a victim of such unfair competition practices. What steps can Bpost take to tackle fraud in competition? Will bpost complain against this unfair competition? What steps will you, as a minister, take to exclude such fraud-sensitive practices, such as the delivery of mail or packages by self-employed persons, from the organisation of bpost?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic421x.u32	Mr President, Minister, my colleague has already outlined the problem. In the present period we are experiencing an explosion of the number of packages delivered. This raises the question of whether logistics is fundamentally prepared for this, since for each package someone has to drive to the destination, ring the bell and drive away. The explosion takes such a form that it is an opportunity for foreign operators, especially PostNL in Belgium. As outlined above, some practices emerge that raise questions about the business context of subcontractors who are ultimately required to carry out that work, and whether or not they comply with our legislation. Madam Secretary, what initiatives have you already taken or will you take? You have already stated that SIOD will follow the delivery services more closely in its action plan and that the College for the fight against tax and social fraud will also pay attention to it. Could you elaborate on that? What coordinated approach do you intend to take? Part of the sector operates within the strictly regulated framework of bpost and BIPT. How do you intend to reconcile this with the rest of the sector? No one is in favour of a monopoly. In the event of a monopoly, it is regulated, usually with a piece of inefficiency as a result. If we allow the free market to play, then sometimes the government succeeds in controlling certain practices when the market moves strongly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic421x.u33	Mr President, Mr Leysen, Mrs Vindevoghel, the Sunday delivery of packages is in accordance with the agreement with the social partners. Bpost calls on its own staff and also gives the opportunity to opt for Sunday work on a voluntary basis. I have explained this before in committee. If it is established that necessary, punctual reinforcements are needed, Bpost will call on student labour. Those are always contractual jobs. According to bpost, the consumer is indeed more and more asking party for Sunday delivery. Bpost informs me that the offer to deliver packages seven days a week is due to the ongoing accessibility of e-commerce. The demand is greatest among consumers of electronics. However, Bpost also stresses that it is primarily the e-tailer, the equivalent of the retailer, that decides to offer the option of Sunday delivery. The start of Sunday deliveries is as desired according to bpost, with an estimated volume of 10,000 packages per Sunday at the beginning of the year. By the end of the year, a doubling to 20,000 packages per Sunday is expected. Postal service providers are, of course, subject to strict regulation. Specifically for the letter post, they are subject to Article 5 (1) of the Postal Act which states that any physical person carrying out the activities of collection, sorting or distribution of mail is suspected to be employed on the basis of an employment contract with a postal service provider. In general and therefore also in the case of packages, I refer to Article 3 (2) of the Postal Law, which requires postal service providers to comply with the obligations in the Postal Act by their subcontractors and the persons acting on their behalf. The social inspectors of the General Executive Board of the Social Laws of the FOD WASO are competent to verify compliance with this article and that check is carried out on the basis of the tax declarations made and a risk analysis. On this basis, 29 files were selected by the General Administration of the Special Tax Inspectorate in the framework of the control of courier services, without prior focus on a specific company. That cannot be the intention. The analysis of the results may be one of the parameters for a subsequent risk analysis. The sector is already mentioned in the action plan 2021 of the social inspection and investigation services due to increased sensitivity to social fraud. This action plan was approved by the government last month. If, in its implementation, the increased level of risk is confirmed and cooperation with the tax inspection services proves necessary, social inspection and investigation services as members of the College for the fight against tax and social fraud could be included in a coordinated approach by both social and fiscal inspection services. For the proper functioning of the parcel delivery sector, it seems essential to me that everyone complies with the legislation and that possible abuses are quickly detected and stopped. For example, the whole sector can deliver packages in a sustainable and socially responsible manner, with fair working conditions and conditions for parcel delivery. You will, of course, have inferred from my answer that this problem does not fall exclusively within my competence and that I will follow this up with my colleagues, Minister Dermagne and Minister Van Peteghem.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic421x.u34	Madam Secretary, do I understand correctly that you will first examine with the Minister whether a complaint should be lodged? That's the point, isn't it? Mr Leysen is talking about liberalisation. Well, I think this is precisely the result of the complete liberalisation of the market. We shall then have such practices. I know a guy who works at PostNL. That person earns 8 euros an hour. The working conditions are terrible. Some of them work part-time. There's bogus self-employment. It's unheard of. Now I have heard that the parcel delivery companies in the Netherlands have also filed a complaint against the practices that are taking place at PostNL. I really hope this will be picked up, because this is social dumping being organised. I don't think this is possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic421x.u35	I thank the Minister for her explanation and wish her every success. Mr Vindevoghel, I would like to point out that this has nothing to do with liberalisation. If the structure of a market changes, there is always a greater risk that certain players do not comply with the rules and that the government is not organised to detect any fraud. As an entrepreneur, I can only say that fair competition is important and that it benefits real entrepreneurship. But that assumes that everyone respects the rules of the game. I've been in charge of bpost for a number of years. That company has developed nicely over the last 20 years. There have been, as at certain times in every company, ups and downs. Since the opening-up to other shareholders and the professionalisation carried out by Johnny Thijs, we can be proud of the quality of the service. I am therefore pleased that the workers have the necessary flexibility, because many consumers will be pleased to receive packages on Sunday.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic421x.u36	Madam Minister, there is concern among the population about the closure of certain post offices. Post offices are not only used to send letters and packages, the older generations also like to use the services for the execution of financial transactions, for example to send money abroad. Because of the density of the postal network, bpost is a perfect partner for this. I would almost dare compare it to the dense network of pharmacies. In both sectors, service provision must be first and foremost. If a decision is taken to change the business plan, with the closure of a number of offices, this service will be compromised. The same is true of the removal of a large number of mailboxes, which has been going on for some time. It is undeniable that a large part of the transactions, be it for e-commerce, are digital. But certain groups, especially older people and people in difficulty, do not always have access to the Internet and need human contact. For them, closing a nearby post office means a jaw blow. There is also concern about the future in the arrondissement of Halle-Vilvoorde. What post offices will close in the Arrondissement in the coming years? On what basis will the offices be closed? Do parameters such as the distance to another office or the efficiency per office play a role here? Is there any more clarity about Bpost's investigation into the transformation of post offices into local shops? This has been the case in the past. How do you see that in concrete terms? Were there any discussions with, for example, SNCB about the sale of tickets? What investments in buildings, materials and staff will bpost for the coming years?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic421x.u37	Mrs Goethals, there are currently no closures of post offices in the arrondissement of Halle-Vilvoorde. In 2019 even additional offices were opened in Kampenhout and Beersel. In addition to traditional replacement investments, there will also be investment in user-friendly digital tools and in computer equipment such as tablets and programs in the coming years. The aim is to support the employees in the offices in providing a quality service for the customers. I share your view that this service is crucial for many people and that the accessibility of post offices is a valuable asset in the bpost network. We should definitely keep that and use it to the maximum. Packing machines were also installed in a number of places in collaboration with different cities and municipalities. In the arrondissement of Halle-Vilvoorde, for example, this is the intention in Vilvoorde, Wezembeek-Oppem, Dilbeek and Halle. That too is an important evolution in the whole e-commerce story and aims to roll it out in a sustainable way. It is known that customers have no problem picking up packages in vending machines, rather than wanting them delivered to their front door. These new investments are constantly monitored and additional installations can be carried out on the basis of needs. I hope those answers will do.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic421x.u38	Madam Minister, I am incredibly pleased that there are no planned closures in'my' arrondissement. I think you agree with me that post offices should certainly not compete with local SMEs with their possible activities. We must continue to focus on postal services of any kind. The closure or not of post offices will certainly not be a simple exercise for you. You should not only look at the figures for the past covid year, but at the longer-term figures to make the right decisions about whether or not to close the post offices and remove the mailboxes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic421x.u39	Madam Secretary, the corona pandemic drives online shopping to unprecedented heights, but also the trade in counterfeit goods. The number of counterfeit goods seized is higher than in previous years. As in previous years, most counterfeit goods come from China. There is also less cargo space available due to the corona crisis. The European Union recently approved a new tax regime for dropshipping. Madam Secretary, bpost treats many Chinese packages. Does the new tax regime mean that fewer packages come from China? Alibaba has settled in Liège. This will lead to competition for bpost. I understand that bpost does not wish to confirm nor deny that Alibaba has concluded a commercial agreement for the dispatch of packages with bpost. Do you know of an agreement between Bpost and Alibaba or not? Does bpost have much to do with counterfeit goods? If so, what happens to it? Do you also have figures of how many counterfeit goods are received annually by bpost? I would like to receive figures from the years 2017, 2018, 2019 and 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic421x.u40	The new system to which you refer is the implementation of a European VAT Directive. From 1 July, the VAT exemption will be abolished, which will no longer exempt packages of less than 22 euros from VAT from non-EU countries. These include packages from China, but also from many other countries. This means that the recipients of these packages have to pay VAT. Normally the VAT is paid online at the time of the order. For the transitional period for packages ordered before 1 July but delivered after 1 July, the FPS Finance is working with the sector on a specific temporary transitional solution. Since the measure does not enter into force until 1 July, I cannot yet provide information on the impact of this measure on consumers' behaviour. You also ask for a possible agreement between Alibaba and Bpost. There is indeed a contract between a subsidiary of Alibaba and Bpost. In a normal commercial competitive ecosystem such as the parcel market and online sales, it is logical that a company engages in partnerships, partnerships and relationships. This means that it is part of the current business of bpost to consider with whom and under what conditions cooperation is entered into. As a minister, I have little to say about this. All I can do is monitor the major strategic lines. We must also pay attention, the details of commercial cooperation cannot be made public because this would be a competitive disadvantage for bpost vis-à-vis private competitors. Very important is the problem of counterfeit products. The problem is well known to us. This is particularly true in electronic commerce and products. The Economic Inspectorate confirms that the quality of counterfeit products is often not good, so that they can be dangerous for safety or health. Customs is the body responsible for intercepting and destroying counterfeit products. That means the customer sometimes doesn't get his order. Should the product still reach the customer, and thus pass the checks at customs, and then fail, it is evident that there is no legal guarantee of two years, as offered by bona fide sellers. As a logistics player at the parcel market, bpost does not have the right to check for counterfeits. That's really important. It's customs that can do that, not bpost. Senders using bpost's services are required to comply with bpost's general terms and conditions. It is quite clear that consignments containing counterfeit goods are prohibited. Of course, there are other goods that are also prohibited. That's in the terms and conditions. However, the audit is carried out by customs and the Economic Inspectorate, which are the responsibility of the Minister for Finance and the Minister for Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic421x.u41	Mr President, Minister, bpost has the ambition to remain the main operational player in its own country for e-commerce and to support small and medium-sized enterprises to pack and ship their products. In spring 2021, an Active Ants branch will be opened in an existing building. Workers and robots are working together to do the job. COOVID-19 has only increased e-commerce orders. Madam Secretary, do you know when the opening of Active Ants will take place? How many employees will be able to work there? How do the packages that Active Ants processes reach the customer? Has bpost already written to SMEs? Will there be work at night and at weekends?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic421x.u42	Mr President, Mrs Dewulf, as you know, Active Ants is a Dutch subsidiary of bpost active in e-fulfilment. E-fulfilment actually means processing goods after a transaction over the internet, namely the entry into storage, storage, collection, packaging and shipment of goods. By offering these services, web stores can entrust the storage, order collection, packaging and shipping of their orders to experts such as Active Ants. There are already two e-fulfilment sites in the Netherlands that are successful and the activity is now being extended to Belgium. The intention is to open a new branch in Belgium, on the axis between Antwerp and Brussels, by summer 2021. If the company will operate at cruising speed, which is believed to last a number of years, there will be 80 to 100 people employed to process 2 million shipments per year. That's what bpost says. You understand that a lot of that work is automated. For the delivery of the packages to the customer, at home or at a pick-up point, Active Ants will of course use the bpost distribution network. Active Ants already has its own Belgian sales team. Bpost sales teams will also be trained to provide services on the market. Specifically for SMEs, Active Ants offers a solution as part of the "every business online" offer. This already existing offer will therefore be scaled up and Active Ants will be given a very important task. Bpost tells us that e-commerce companies in a highly competitive market do indeed attach importance to being able to offer late delivery times to their customers, which means that the latest orders will also be passed on late to operational service providers such as Active Ants. In a start-up phase there will be work until midnight, but depending on the growth of the company, the wishes of the customers, the evolution of the market and the time of the year, the duty schedules can still be extended, for example until 02:00 a.m., so Bpost reports. The same applies to working days, because in a first phase the company will work from Monday to Saturday, but over a number of years, as the company grows, and also during peak periods, it will probably also be possible to work on Sundays. As a minister, I trust that bpost will continue his tradition of social consultation for the Belgian leg of Active Ants, just as it did for the introduction of Sunday work at bpost itself. The launch of a new Active Ants site in Belgium offers a contribution and expertise to bpost and employees. The development of e-commerce is also a positive development for the SMEs in our country. This is part of the plans to give bpost a more important logistical role in the e-commerce story.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic421x.u43	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. I think it is a very good undertaking and I hope that it will succeed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic421x.u44	Mr President, Madam Minister, since 2011, bpost has stopped issuing stamps with a value on them. Unstamped stamps in Belgian franc or euro, which were issued after 2 October 1961, remained valid indefinitely. That was promised to the citizen. However, a draft law from you shows that you want to return to that promise. The seals would become unusable from January 1, 2023. My questions are as follows. What are the reasons for the breach of the government's word if the seals would remain valid indefinitely? How many stamps with nominal value in Belgian francs or euros are still shipped annually? Will unused stamps with a nominal value in Belgian francs or euros be refunded to those who still hold them as soon as they are no longer allowed to be used?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic421x.u45	Mr President, Madam Secretary, my father-in-law was a fervent stamp collector. The Belgians can only buy stamps without fixed money value. However, it was still possible to send letters with old stamps in euro or Belgian francs, which we also did. When we now surf to the site of bpost, we read the following. People can keep using old stamps. All stamps from 2 October 1961, also the stamps in Belgian franc, remain valid for a non-priority shipment. Now bpost wants to get rid of that infinite validity of old stamps. bpost states that the latest sorting machines do not recognise old stamps which require manual sorting of letters with old stamps. In short, bpost automates the sorting process when the company knows that old stamps can also be used. Once the sorting process is automated, the company simply wants to ban the use of the old seals. The consumer is the victim of that decision. It seems as if bpost has acted premeditatedly in this matter. It's something that's gonna make a lot of collectors lose. Did bpost, when it automated its sorting system, take into account the use of the old stamps? Is it true that bpost is asking for the disrespect of the old stamps? Do you agree to the depreciation of the old stamps, although it is always stated that the stamps could be used forever to send letters? Can bpost estimate how many unstamped stamps are still in circulation? How many letters does bpost have to sort manually per day on average because the consumer uses old stamps? How many letters are sorted daily? Stamp collectors are still a great source of revenue for bpost, because they buy stamps but rarely use them to send letters or packages. They therefore feel abused by the proposal to devalue the old seals. Will bpost pay back old, unstamped stamps if they can no longer be used, as one can still bring old banknotes to the National Bank today?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic421x.u46	There is great unrest among the thousands of stamp collectors in our country after BIPT announced that all stamps, which were issued for 2007, could soon lose their value. When the stamps were issued, there was no expiration date. How can one change the rules of the route? Isn't this unfair to buyers/collectors? What concrete commitment can you make to the concerned citizens to make this work?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic421x.u47	A proposal from a royal decree shows that old stamps may no longer be used from 2023. And there came a lot of angry reactions from collectors. There are a lot of people who have invested a lot of money in old stamps. According to them, it was a means of value that would always retain its value.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic421x.u48	Mr President, a few weeks ago the issue of old stamps did indeed cause some unrest in the media. The BIPT launched a consultation on 19 February 2021, which ends today on a draft Royal Decree on postal services. Among other things, one of the articles and a paragraph stipulate that old stamps in Belgian francs or euros from 1 January 2023 would no longer be valid for postage. In the meantime, I have made it quite clear in the media that, in addition to the fact that KB's draft dates from before my term of office, I wanted a public consultation. If that consultation shows that there is strong resistance to certain measures, then it is up to me to review these matters. Although the consultation is still ongoing and I would better stop here with my answer, I will give some context and information about the reasoning behind the proposal. There are several aspects. Firstly, most of the stamps sold by bpost no longer have a nominal value since 1998, but a value expressed in units, in particular 1, 2 or 3. Since 2002, no stamps have been issued in Belgian francs. There has also been a time edition of stamps on which the value was both in Belgian francs and in euros. Since 2011, no stamps have been issued in euros. Manual control of the franking of old stamps on envelopes is therefore on the agenda. That's expensive, complicated and error-prone, bpost tells me. For these reasons, very few European countries still allow a francation with old stamps. I think France and Italy are the exceptions. Their old national currencies are no longer accepted, only stamps in euros. You asked about how many letters this is about. According to bpost, less than 0.25 %, i.e. 1 in 400, of the letters stamped with stamps is currently franked with Belgian francs. Approximately 1 %, 1 in 100, is franked in euro. The measure which (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic421x.u49	There's a technical problem. Madam Secretary, can you hear us? There was an interruption. I don't know when you stopped.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic421x.u50	Mr President, I do not know. Suddenly everyone was gone.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic421x.u51	You were gone for two minutes, no longer. Start again from the beginning.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic421x.u52	Mr President, I have probably already indicated that bpost says that there are problems in checking the franking of old stamps. Other countries have also implemented the measure, except France and Italy. Perhaps you have heard me say that this amounts to 0.25 % of the total number of letters that are still written with Belgian francs and 1% of the stamps in euro. The deadline set for the use of the stamps, which is also the subject of the consultation, is longer than one year, twelve years after the last sale of the last seal in euro and even longer in Belgian francs. I was just replying that it is about the stamps we use to france letters and that this does not have a direct impact on the collection value of philatelic stamps, which are issued in limited editions. By the way, bpost continues to issue philatelic stamps. Philatelic stamps, if they do not mention Belgian francs or euros, may still be used as a franking agent after 1 January 2023. I would particularly like to say that I will wait for the results of the public consultation before I draw any conclusions. We must have all the facts, points of view and information in order to draw a conclusion on this matter. I have already informed myself at the BIPT. At present, some fourteen stamp collectors and philately clubs have provided input specifically on article 48 in the design of royal decree, being the article that deals with the detection of the old stamps. I do not want to anticipate the facts, but I would like to say that, in my opinion, the opposition to declaring stamps issued in euro is a legitimate concern of society. On Belgian franc stamps, we may agree that they should not remain in use for very long. However, stamps in euro are still in use in other countries. So maybe we should look at these stamps separately. We may also be able to consider a longer transitional period in order to respond to the criticisms we are receiving. However, I would like to wait until the moment when I can look into the investigation, fully analysed by the BIPT, and then go to the Council of Ministers with a modified draft royal decision. I hope that I have been able to overcome a number of concerns and have been able to answer the many questions on the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic421x.u53	Mr President, Minister, I welcome the fact that you are still in consultation. It is good that this is discussed, because there was effective panic among the many collectors. We're waiting for the sequel.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic421x.u54	Mr President, Minister, it is a good thing that the concerns of the sector are being addressed. This also shows that before such decisions are made, it is not bad to inform the people about whom it is, rather than to find out afterwards that there is a problem. This is a work area that we may be able to take more account of in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic421x.u55	Mr President, Minister, this is a limited number of stamps, which is clear from the figures you gave. It is very important and nice that you already consult the people in advance. We look forward to your proposal and will then consider whether we need to take additional action.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic421x.u56	Mr President, Minister, it is a pity for stamp collectors who see their collection fall in value to almost nothing. The stamp collectors once paid for those stamps. Large and thick envelopes are still processed by human hands today. So what is the problem with having these letters with old stamps? A stamp is actually proof that bpost has to provide a service.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic421x.u57	Mr President, Minister, a major transformation plan was launched in 2019 in which 1,300 employees lost their jobs. There has been a lot of debate on this in committee. Then there was the departure to the competition of CEO Dominique Leroy, which also did not go so well. Now I read that there is another proposal to make new savings. Has the 2019 savings plan been fully implemented? What impact did this plan have on the 2020 results? Proximus wants to save 400 million euros by 2025. How will this be achieved? Are investments going to be cancelled? Is there going to be less investment in one's own network? Are the 5G investments going to be deleted or postponed? Will jobs die in this savings plan? How do you explain the strategy of acquisitions, such as Mobile Vikings and BICS, while at the same time saving on one's own activities? Is it a good time for Proximus to save during the corona crisis, while there are so many needs for the population in terms of digitisation? You also support the idea that everyone has the right to a digital connection.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic421x.u58	Mr President, Mrs Vindevoghel, Proximus has informed me that the so-called Fit for Purpose plan for 2019 has been fully implemented. Proximus also told me that the new plan does not contain a new social plan. The savings are made through operational aspects of the company. This has no impact on the announced plan for the roll-out of fiberglass. As you know, they want to connect 4.2 households and businesses by 2028. However, it does not affect the investments needed for 5G and the digitalisation plans. It's purely operational savings. The savings will be found in an accelerated phasing-out of the copper network, I am told. Why? Because the maintenance of glass fibre entails lower maintenance costs than the maintenance of the copper network. Secondly, the further rationalisation of a number of technical buildings, which can be done again thanks to new technologies, without an impact on services. Further details on Proximus's cost savings plans and acquisition or acquisition decisions cannot be given, as you understand, as this contains sensitive information for Proximus' competitive position. I realize that I have to say this very often in committee, but these are commercial companies that cannot always make this information public. As a minister, I have to respect the company's autonomy. I must ensure that their competitiveness is not compromised. So I can't always give you the information. Your great concern was that the savings would have a detrimental effect on the staff. I have been guaranteed by Proximus that this will not be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic421x.u59	Madam Minister, that is indeed the great concern of the staff. During the whole restructuring of 2019, we have often heard from the staff that there were consequences for the service and there were too few staff in the different services. I think the service is very important. People are entitled to a well-developed digital connection. I know you're behind that, too. I am pleased to see that the staff is maintained and that good customer service is being continued.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic421x.u60	Madam Minister, this question has been tabled some time ago and the strike that has been mentioned is already over; an agreement has even been reached. Madam Minister, I would like to get more information on what has been decided on these actions. How did the decision to transfer the 17 employees from Liège Rive Gauche to Awans come about? Were the social partners involved and if so, how? Since action was taken for a few days, the prior consultation was apparently not so good. Will bpost in that region hire extra staff to meet the increased workload, mainly due to extra packages? Is the transfer of post workers a common phenomenon? What are the reasons for this? Can postal workers refuse a transfer? There is a certain sensitivity in that area. I was contacted by a single woman who was afraid of a possible transfer. A transfer has many social and family consequences. That's why I'd like to hear your views.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic421x.u61	Mr Parent, I guess it's the same strike we're talking about.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic421x.u62	Mr President, thank you for this introduction. Indeed, this concerns the left bank bpost office in Liège. It is an important office in the territory of Liège. The strike took place from 24 February to 10 March. This strike is behind us, but it still raises questions in view of the implications on the workload, as has been pointed out, but also of the conditions of return to work. The object of the strike, as has been said, is the new organization of work aimed at moving part of the parcel activities to the site of the larger Awans sorting centre, with the originally planned transfer of 17 agents to Awans. At the level of the Liège office on the left bank, concerns were expressed about maintaining working capacity in good conditions in view of the increase in parcel activity, in particular. Following various interviews between bpost and workers' representatives, the strike ended on the basis of an agreement reducing the number of agents transferred to Awans. However, there are obvious concerns, in particular as regards the sustainability of Liège's activities on the left bank, as well as the workload of the staff of this office in Liège. So my questions are as follows. What guarantees have been obtained regarding the sustainability of the Liège site on the left bank in terms of parcel management? Is an assessment of the workload based on the Liege agents left bank as a result of the decisions taken planned? Finally, have mobility solutions been offered to transferred staff?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic421x.u63	Mr Parent and Mrs Vindevoghel, thank you for your questions. Bpost informs me that an agreement has indeed been reached with the representatives of the trade unions, agreement which has been submitted to the staff and which has been approved. So the situation is normalized. I will give you some additional information in response to your questions. It was decided that a certain volume of packages would be transferred from the present office of Liège, Rive Gauche, in Grivegnée, to the pitches center in Awans. That decision was motivated by, firstly, the fact that the building in Grivegnée was not adapted to the expected increase in the number of packages to be processed in the coming months. More than 1,500 packages are currently being processed in the pitches center, intended for Liège. Secondly, the works on tram tracks at the moment significantly disturb traffic in the municipality. So it was actually necessary to distribute part of the packages in question from Awans and the other part from Grivegnée. Bpost indicates that the trade unions have been involved in the project from the outset. When in October, November and December last year the number of packages transferred to Awans increased considerably, the social partners were informed. They agreed to that transfer. The increase in packages has, of course, become a reality in covid times. As you mentioned, 17 jobs will indeed be allocated to the distribution of Awans. Seven additional jobs will also be created for the whole distribution area of Liège City. bpost informs me that the transfer of activities from one bpost site to another is, in fact, a common practice that may be due to the outdated or unadapted buildings or to unforeseen situations such as recent work at Dour or Spa that make access to the building impossible. The conditions for the transfer of assignment and mobility of staff are regulated and negotiated. In this case, a trial period of a few months was granted to staff members so that they could return to the Grivegnée distribution centre if they wished. The independent public company bpost also states that it is committed to maintaining the business in Grivegnée. The reorganization is accompanied by a continuous evaluation and a final evaluation after three months. In addition, a shuttle was set up to connect the Liège train station to the Awans parcel centre.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic421x.u64	Madam Minister, the fact that the workers have been working for so long shows that there was a problem with prior consultation. I don't think employees are gonna take action if discussions have taken place. If decisions are to be taken, consultation with workers' organisations must be established. It should also be borne in mind that there are many consequences for a company to move from one place to another. That has a huge impact on the family and social life of the employees, so I hope bpost is careful with such decisions in the future. We must consult and find good solutions for the workers so that they do not just have to organise a move, because it has a lot of consequences for their family life.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic421x.u65	Minister, thank you for your reassuring and interesting clarification. Employment was created, but some issues remained. Despite the fact that the process had been coordinated, there was a break in the dialogue at some point. As far as maintaining activity in Liège centre is concerned, I find this important and thank you for the clarifications. Although there are sites that can be more operational in the periphery, it is important to keep a bpost activity in the centres, in sites that are sometimes better located in terms of public transport. Tram was spoken of as being currently a concern with the accessibility of the Grivegnée office but later it will also be an added value in order to allow staff to move more easily within the city of Liège and not have to migrate to the periphery. It is also in the interest of staff to maintain an activity close to their home. It is known that the city centre of Liège is heavily populated and attracts many bpost workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic421x.u66	Minister, at the hearing of the previous CEO of bpost in our commission last October, I had already asked her about the absence of Francophones in the bpost leadership. Six months later, it seems that the imbalance that had occurred at the time has unfortunately increased today with the departure of Henri de Romrée from the bpost group. To the best of my knowledge, therefore, no Francophone is a member of the Group Executive Committee that runs the Bpost Group. Moreover, the joint body, established by the 1991 Law on Autonomous Public Enterprises, is no longer in conformity. I am not a very sharp person on these issues, but I do not think it is desirable, in a spirit of balance. This can create future suspicion about the strategic choices of the company's investments, or other things. I therefore believe that this situation needs to be rectified. Minister, can you give us the figures for the number of French- and Dutch-speaking directors, including the deputy directors, to examine the balance at this level, as well as the figures for the Group Executive Committee? In addition to the figures, have you contacted the public enterprise to ensure that this situation is rectified as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic421x.u67	Mr President, with regard to your question, which refers to the proportion of Dutch-speaking and French-speaking members of the bpost management, I can inform you that the distribution is 62% and 38% respectively. As regards the Group Executive Committee, the representativeness of the regions of the country will be one of the elements that will be taken into account when changing its membership. We have made it clear that we must strive to achieve a better linguistic balance even if the law does not require it. The vacancy, among other things, of the position of Chief Technology Officer and the retirement of public servants in the near future could lead to a move towards a greater presence of Francophones on the committee. On the other hand, you will agree that in a multinational organization such as bpost, which operates on several continents, it is important to focus on skills rather than language, and that an international presence as well as gender diversity are important for a company that has international business ambition and challenges. All this without neglecting the social role of bpost. As you say, in addition to the group's management committee, bpost is required, under the Act of 21 March 1991 on autonomous public undertakings, to have a management committee (the "Law 91 Committee"). This committee is responsible for representing bpost in negotiations with the Belgian State on the renewal or amendment of the management contract between bpost and the Belgian State. The role of the "Law 91 Committee" is, in particular, to make recommendations to the Management Board. The final decision shall be taken by the Management Board. The said committee must indeed be composed of an equal number of Dutch- and French-speaking members, with the exception of the managing director. The committee is composed of three persons: the managing director, the director of staff, of Dutch-speaking linguistic role, and the person responsible for the strategy for mail, of Francophone linguistic role. The law is respected. I repeat that we are currently working to develop a better linguistic balance within the Group Executive Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic421x.u68	Minister, thank you very much for that clarification. I will remain on your last point, namely your willingness to ensure a better balance than today. I hear that, in the coming times, you will have various opportunities to work in this direction. I can only encourage you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic421x.u69	Madam Minister, since 2007 there has been a system called "AUB Postman." This system is not sufficiently known today according to the latest BIPT report. It is not known by the target group of less mobile people and elderly people. The postman can help with financial transactions, postal operations, correspondence, stamps and registered shipments by placing the postman visible in the window. The poster "AUB Postman" should be better known, especially now that many people are isolated at home, such as disabled people and elderly people. I would have liked to know what solution you have to make more public to the general public. Another question: do you know, Madam Secretary, "AUB Postman"?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic421x.u70	Thank you, Mrs Dewulf. I know the project, but that is also because I have been getting to know bpost's activities very well for five months now. In all honesty, I didn't know it before 1 October 2020. In general, I share with you the concern that people will be helped as much as possible during this difficult period. I will do everything within my policy to help optimize that. That is why I very much support the idea behind the AUB postman project, which focuses on vulnerable groups. We are currently talking to bpost, precisely to see how the "AUB postman" service can be adapted and made more visible than it is today. Because you are absolutely right: probably a lot of people are not aware of this service. It is something that is typical of the management agreement and is therefore on the table when we are negotiating the seventh management agreement. We will certainly continue to talk about this in this committee when we are a little further into it. I already invite you to re-raise the issue of the AUB postman project when we will effectively debate the seventh management agreement and a more concrete proposal on this project. Thank you for asking the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic421x.u71	Thank you for your comprehensive answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic421x.u72	Madam Minister, since 1 January 2021, Bpost's Distripost tariffs have risen to 30%. Only companies that do not take their customers into account are making such drastic price increases. The main victims of this price policy are small SMEs and self-employed people, who are now hardest hit by the corona crisis. Those trying to survive and bpost is now wringing their arm with such high price increases. Last week I received a testimony from an SME leader in Belgium. SMEs are in most cases hard hit by the corona crisis and especially those active in the advertising and reportage magazines sector. The testimony goes as follows: "We are a publishing house. Since 1999, we have been begging local advertising magazines with bpost every month. In recent years, it's been a terrible, almost impossible company to work with. By corona we have a turnover drop of 30 to 70 % per month. And then bpost raises the rates so hard, knowing that the government is a 51% shareholder in this. It's not because the mail market is falling, that we, little middlemen, have to pay the difference. I ask myself a lot of questions about this." We too have questions about this price policy. How steep have the prices of Distripost, the distribution of advertising magazines, among other things, increased over the past ten years? On what basis did bpost decide to raise Distripost tariffs to up to 30% by 2021 compared to 2020? Is it based on figures from 2020, the corona year? In 2020, sales for Distripost fell sharply due to corona. Does bpost intend to compensate for that loss in 2021 by introducing tariff increases? How much extra revenue will bpost generate as expected thanks to the higher Distripost rates in 2021?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic421x.u73	Mrs. Vindevoghel, Distripost is a commercial product of bpost. It is therefore not part of the universal postal service. It is subject to the supervision of BIPT. Other companies also offer delivery services for unaddressed leaflets. That said, the price increase reflects the cost evolution of the product. The product is not distributed independently, but taken on the round by the postman. The less a mailman a Distripost product together with the addressed mail can make buses, the more stops one has to make, only for Distripost's products, so the higher the cost of begging Distripost. The evolution of revenues depends not only on the evolution of prices, but also on the volumes and the product mix. The determination of revenue is therefore not linear in relation to the evolution of tariffs. It may be a complicated story, but I hope I made it clear. The price change for the standard product varies every year. The price change in 2021 is in line with the averages of recent years. When comparing the 2021 rates with those of 2020, it can be seen that the rates of commercial leaflets have increased 6.7 % and the prices of informative leaflets 6.3 %. The average price increase for 2018 was 6.3 %, for 2019 11 % and for 2020 3.1 % for commercial leaflets and 9.2 % for informative leaflets. I hope those figures have made you a little wiser.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic421x.u74	Madam Secretary, I have indeed become a little wiser. But I do wonder whether the lady who sent the mail will be satisfied with the answer. For the small self-employed, who already have a lot less income due to corona, the price increase is not less. They see the distribution as an activity of bpost, which they consider to be a public undertaking, and nevertheless find such an increase in prices problematic. At least I'll pass on your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic421x.u75	Madam Minister, after the last meeting of the Consultative Committee, the government announced that rapid tests would be carried out in the workplace. Homework is mandatory, something that is very important with the rising corona figures. Unfortunately, not everyone can work from home. Not only is this not possible for some functions, some sectors remain dependent on the workplace as a whole. Yesterday it was announced on the radio that bpost will use rapid tests to test workers in the workplace. This would be a pilot project. Could you give us some more information on the quick tests at bpost? How exactly will this work? How does the pilot project on bpost fit into the wider federal fast test strategy? In addition to bpost, you are also competent for other public services and service providers. Can you tell us to what extent rapid tests will also be used there?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic421x.u76	Mrs Platteau, it is not for me, as a minister, to welcome you to this committee, but I can welcome you, in particular, to the fascinating subject of public enterprises. In addition to fascinating, it is also a topical theme, as your question suggests. It is true that the coronavirus is increasing in strength again, we see the numbers rising in all provinces. If people know that a very large proportion of the infections happen on the workplace, then we need to intervene there if we want to avoid further lockdowns. A thorough testing campaign in parallel with the vaccination campaign is crucial to keep our economy, our schools and our society open and running. Rapid tests and self-tests will probably soon play an important role in the exit strategy or in the test strategy 2.0, if we call them that way, which is currently being worked out by the federal government together with the Coronac Commissioner and the Task Force Testing. That was an introduction. In this context, it is useful to launch a number of pilot projects, as we did yesterday at Bpost. Over the course of four weeks, around 1,700 staff from three sorting centres will be frequently tested with rapid tests. The purpose of the large-scale pilot project is to identify the feasibility and scalability of that solution. I am thinking of the costs of the rapid tests, the organisational and logistical challenges of the tests and of whether there is sufficient skilled staff to take the tests. To your second question, I can answer you that, according to the current regulatory framework, antigen tests, i.e. rapid testing, can already be carried out today in companies and in residential care centres in cluster outbreaks, although this is not always easy given the strict registration requirements. The aim is therefore to make rapid tests available to companies and public services and also to ensure that there is not too much administration and registration. For example, we are only considering recording the positive tests as everyone is being tested, symptoms or not. It also examines whether tests can be carried out by people with different types of qualifications. In any case, we are going for a targeted approach, in accordance with the arrangements made with the co-decision committee. As far as profile is concerned, we will focus on functions that cannot work telework and have close contacts, which means that the risk of virus transmission is high. In terms of geographical criteria, we have chosen workplaces in the provinces of Hainaut, Namur, East Flanders and Brussels-Capital. We are also looking at other public companies. As far as my powers are concerned, that is, first of all, Proximus. I know that Mr Gilkinet is also considering whether this might be possible with SNCB, but those are still plans at the moment. At Proximus we could start a pilot project in a few days. I'm also responsible for civil service cases. In the FOD BOSA, the number of functions where telework is not possible appears to be very low and one may wonder whether a pilot project is interesting there. Possibly that is not the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic421x.u77	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. It is very interesting that these pilot projects are being launched. As you have pointed out, it is useful to draw lessons from this on feasibility and scalability. I take it from your answer that this is a very important logistics operation that will hopefully help us with the exit strategy, which we are all looking forward to. I wish you every success in these pilot projects.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic421x.u78	Ladies and gentlemen, I think we have exhausted our agenda. I would like to thank the Minister for her presence, for our exchange of views around bpost and for her answers to the other questions.
