ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip138x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip138x.u2	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 9 November 2021, you have received an amended agenda for this week's meeting. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 9 November 2021, you have received an amended agenda for this week's meeting. Is there any comment on this? Are there any comments on this? Accordingly, the agenda was adopted. The agenda has therefore been adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip138x.u3	I have received amendments to the bill to make justice more humane, faster and firmer, No. 2175/1. I have received amendments to the draft law to make justice more human, faster and more criminal, No. 2175/1. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 9 November 2021, I propose that these amendments be referred to the Committee on Justice (Art. 93, No. 1 of the Regulation). In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 9 November 2021, I propose that these amendments be sent to the Committee on Justice (Art. 93, No. 1, of the Rules of Procedure). Discussion of the bill will continue in plenary, after consideration of the amendments in committee. The draft law will be discussed in plenary today, after discussion of the amendments in committee. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip138x.u4	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mrs Jadin, who refers to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip138x.u5	Madam President, in order to honour this text, which does not really have many, I shall speak. This bill before us must endorse an agreement strengthening the role of the European Stability Mechanism (ESM). However, the PTB is fundamentally opposed to it. What is the MES? The ESM plays roughly the same role vis-à-vis the countries of the European Union as that of the IMF vis-à-vis the countries of the south of the planet. It makes loans conditional on structural adjustments (austerity-liberalisation-privatisation striptych). Moreover, it is intrinsically linked to the TSCG, acronym meaning Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Governance in Economic and Monetary Union, whose informal and more explicit declination is better known: "All bleeds like the Greeks." The TSCG is the austerity which is elevated to constitutional principle, since Article 3.2 states that "the rules set out in paragraph 1 shall take effect in the national law of the contracting parties no later than one year after the entry into force of this Treaty, by means of binding and permanent provisions, preferably constitutional (...)". It should therefore normally be specified in the Constitution. These austerity rules are known, including the rule of a public debt of less than 60 per cent and, when the debt exceeds 60 per cent, the obligation to reduce the gap at an annual rate of one twentieth a year. This rule applied to Belgium, where the public debt is 113.9% of GDP, imposes on us a cure of austerity and savings of 13 billion euros per year for twenty years. While we are already seeing all the difficulties, in the context of the budgetary year, in making an effort of EUR 2.4 billion by 2022, five times more would have to be done each year for 20 years. This policy is antisocial and cruel to the people. We saw it in Greece, where the ESM showed the full extent of the disasters it can do. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to give you some information on the situation in Greece and on the consequences of the austerity that has been imposed, particularly in the context of the ESM. In Greece, suicides increased by 35.7 per cent. The population living below the poverty line is twice the European average. The unemployment rate is three times the European average. Greece is the only country in the European Union where the minimum wage has decreased since 2008. It was reduced by 28 per cent in 2013 and reached 684 euros gross per month. In Greece, half of the 900,000 enterprises with fewer than 10 employees closed. Half a million young people have fled the country. There have been 27 pension decreases since 2010. These pensions have fallen by an average of 45 per cent. The minimum pension is 345 euros. The country's hospitals are sorely short of drugs and doctors. More recently, austerity has contributed to the historic fires of this summer in Greece, the worst ecological disaster of all time in this country. With austerity, the country had 5,000 fewer firefighters. This policy, implemented in particular within the framework of the ESM, is really antisocial – and even inhumane in the case of Greece – but also economically ineffective. The IMF itself acknowledged that it had plunged Greece into a much more serious crisis by underestimating the impact of fiscal restraint measures. Greece's deficit and debt have been addressed through drastic measures that have only magnified them, and a fortiori when the debt is compared to GDP, which has fallen as a result of these measures. Studies have also shown that in the euro area, in the years following the 2008 financial crisis, the decline in public expenditure has led to a decline in growth. Growth rates were significantly lower in the euro area, which applied this austerity after the 2008 crisis, than in the United States, where such measures have not been put in place – and it is not often that I quote the United States as an example. As the European Union itself begins today to question these principles of austerity and the Maastricht rules, we are asked to join and vote on a text that follows this logic. The ESM is also undemocratic. The European Parliament, the only elected institution of the European Union, has no competence in this area. Moreover, the weight of States in decision-making depends on their respective contributions. In practice, Germany, France and Italy therefore have a de facto right of veto under the ESM. To reassure us, the minister assured us in committee that the presence of Finance Ministers on the Board of Governors – the decision-making body of the ESM – offered us guarantees. Perhaps that is enough to reassure other colleagues, but as far as I am concerned, that is far from the case. It is indeed the same European finance ministers who, a few weeks ago, the very day after the media release on the Pandora Papers, decided to remove three countries from the European blacklist of tax havens. I therefore do not really have a blind confidence in these finance ministers, nor is their presence on the Board of Governors such as to reassure me from a democratic point of view. What we are asked here is to confirm, through this bill, an agreement that aims to strengthen the European Stability Mechanism (ESM) in its role of assessing the sustainability of the Member States' debt, in collaboration with the Commission and the European Central Bank. Since we are challenging the very principle of the ESM and its role as an armed arm to impose austerity, we are obviously opposed to strengthening its role as an assessor of the situation of the countries. Because it is, in a way, strengthening its powers in terms of imposing austerity. With the European Commission, we already have an overbudgeting gendarme. In this case, we'd have two. So you will understand that we are against this text, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip138x.u6	Madam President, I was not on the list of speakers, but because Mr Van Hees' speech has somewhat stimulated me, I would like to give him the following points. I found it interesting how, firstly, he places our Constitution above international agreements. PTB goes Polish . In doing so, he ignores the fact that the ESM is an intergovernmental system which is outside the traditional European treaties. Secondly, he talks about austerity, while spending continues to increase. I read in the newspaper this morning that, in the debate on the future of the European framework, the government has taken a position on budgetary standards, among other things. The Vivaldi government has flagged back Secretary of State Dermine. The PS once again thought to set the lines in the government, but failed to do so. I would like to congratulate the Minister of Finance for flogging the PS back to her quarters. That makes sense. What the PS proposed was a path towards treaty change, and we all know that this will not happen in the current European Union. It is important to underline this in our plenary session. Mr Van Hees, I understand, of course, that your party has a problem with the basic logic of the ESM, namely the conditionality whereby Europe gives but wants something for it instead. Countries can get loans, but they also need to reform. I understand that that curses with your logic where everything is free and money just comes out of heaven. I simply note that the ESM and the IMF approach in Greece have produced results. The IMF recently published its budgetary analyses, which showed that the Greek budget will score much better than the Belgian budget. The Belgian budget deficit is hugely larger than the Greek budget deficit. Why is that? This is because measures have been taken and there has been a reform policy in Greece. Those were a number of interesting points in your speech, which I would like to take for granted. Finally, if you insist that everything should be stopped, that international agreements should not be made and that Europe should not be involved in the social and economic policies of Member States, then I would even like to go along with that thinking. After all, I rather like bespoke and decentralised policies that are organised at the lowest possible level in the alternative. But be consistent in your reasoning and continue the reasoning. If you are in favour of tailor-made work, that also means that we need not only a European Union that is less involved, but also a Belgium that is less involved, so that we can deliver tailor-made solutions to the regions in this country.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip138x.u7	Madam President, if our PS colleagues do not want to react to Mr Loones' speech, I will do so on the points that have asked me. Mr Loones, excuse me for having to tell you that at the beginning of your speech, you were beside the plaque on the question of the Constitution. You don't know what I said at all. Therefore, for the report, I would like to repeat my remarks. It is not the PTB that requests to add elements to the Constitution. As I said, it is the TSCG (Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Governance), the European Treaty, which says that austerity measures should, if possible, be included in the Constitution. This is a bit strange in terms of the hierarchy of standards. Indeed, such a convention or treaty is normally above the Constitution in the hierarchy of norms. It is therefore a bit surprising that the TSCG asks to include, if possible, in the Constitution the austerity measures it contains itself. I note this contradiction, but this contradiction is not that of the PTB but that of the TSCG which you certainly had to support. As far as austerity is concerned, I know that at the N-VA, you are very much in favour of it. Making people pay is something you like. We saw him at the time of Mr. Van Overtveldt, when he was Minister N-VA. He was seen giving gifts to businesses through corporate tax reform or through the tax shift that was not funded. These are billions of euros spent on large companies. On the other hand, austerity was paid for by the workers who suffered index jumps, an increase in the pension age and by other anti-social measures put in place under the Michel government, of which the N-VA was part long enough, even if it came out at the end. Indeed, it was not for austerity issues that the N-VA left the Michel government. I take note of your philosophy of making people pay so that they can give gifts to the big boss. Your president said, "The Voka is my boss." So I understand your logic. You cite Greece as an example. I have given some measure of the social situation in Greece today. The situation is catastrophic. And I hear you say, Mr Loones, that, finally, you take Greece as a model and that Belgium should be inspired by Greece. Therefore, all the elements I have given about Greece (suicides, age and pension amount, etc.)This humanitarian disaster, which is Greece, is for you the model Belgium should follow. I'll take note of it! Finally, with regard to the European Union, we are not opposed to external solidarity with a view to implementing a social policy. If the European Union - instead of being a Europe of capital - was a real social instrument and advocated lowering the retirement age in all Member States, as well as raising pensions and wages, we would fully support it. The problem is that, since its birth, it is not the Europe of people, but the Europe of money. So it's this one we're fighting.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip138x.u8	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip138x.u9	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2176/3) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2176/3) The title was amended by the committee in draft law approving the Agreement amending the Treaty establishing the European Stability Mechanism, done in Brussels on 27 January and 8 February 2021". The title was amended by the Commission in draft legislation approving the Agreement amending the Treaty establishing the European Stability Mechanism, done at Brussels on 27 January and 8 February 2021." The bill has two articles. The draft law has two articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip138x.u10	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip138x.u11	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mrs Verhaert, referred to her written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip138x.u12	Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip138x.u13	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2172/3) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2172/3) The title has been amended by the committee in draft law approving the Agreement amending the Agreement on the Transfer and Mutualization of Contributions to the Single Resolution Fund, done in Brussels on 27 January and 8 February 2021". The title was amended by the Commission in draft Law approving the Agreement amending the Agreement on the transfer and mutualisation of contributions to the Single Resolution Fund, made at Brussels on 27 January and 8 February 2021." The bill has two articles. The draft law has two articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip138x.u14	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip138x.u15	Proposals submitted by: Proposals tabled by:
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip138x.u16	399: Egbert Lachaert. 653: Jef Van den Bergh. 1453: Jef Van den Bergh, Steven Matheï.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip138x.u17	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs, Mr Vandenbroucke, Mr Leysen and Mrs Lanjri, refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip138x.u18	Madam President, this is such a typical dossier in which everyone agrees on the overall objective, but not necessarily on how it should be achieved. We are of course in favour of reductions in emissions. The greening of the fleet is part of that. In fact, the Flemish Government, which is leading our group, showed this very clearly last week. However, I do not want to talk about climate and climate objectives. In other forums, we are already hearing more than enough about this this week. I would particularly like to talk about an element that should actually be present in every climate rule, namely how do we tackle the transition. After all, we all often agree on the objectives. However, these sound very abstract, because they are percentages that have to be achieved in five, ten or fifteen years' time. However, this objective is being used with a transition. It's very important that everyone is behind that transition. For us, such an ecological transition has to meet a number of standards. The increasing bite that the energy bill takes out of the family budget shows how important it is to pay a lot of attention to that transition. It is always sloganical, but that transition must be feasible and affordable. That's not slogansqueaky, it's important. That transition must be realistic and social. In my speech, therefore, I do not want to talk about what should happen in the future, after or from 2026. I want to talk about 2022, 2023, 2024, 2025, about the period before the elections. What will be the impact in the coming years? The cesure in your design is 2026. From then on purchased cars that are not fully electric will no longer be tax deductible. You chose that date, because the general expectation is that sufficient electrical models will be available from then on. However, that remains an expectation and, of course, is not absolute certainty. However, there are already certain and definitive effects of a financial nature associated with that date. However, you are going to go further, as from the middle of 2023, so within a year and a half, cars with an internal combustion engine, as well as hybrid cars, will be fiscally suspended. Cars purchased from the middle of 2023 will be taxed in relation to the current regime. I have a number of problems with that. First of all, commercial vehicles are already becoming more expensive for tax purposes, not because you are creating specific legislation, but simply because emission standards are becoming stricter. Due to these stringent emission standards, there will be an additional charge of EUR 300 million between today and 2024 cumulatively. EUR 235 million more will have to be contributed by the owners and there will be an additional EUR 62 million on labour. Those aren't self-made figures. I'm getting them from a report from the Treasury Inspectorate. This is an increase without any legislative action. Let me now turn to your text. You expect to have sufficient offer by 2026, but what by the middle of 2023? That is far less certain and that is already in a year and a half. I hear colleagues from the majority in committee say that we should look at the total cost of ownership, which is already lower for electric cars than for cars with an internal combustion engine. This is true for cars in the middle class segments, but not for cars in the lower category. We must pay particular attention to this. The third problem that comes with it is the charging pole infrastructure. I will not talk about all the ambitions and objectives of the Regions by 2027, 2028, 2029 or 2030, but I will talk about the coming years. All experts agree that it will be extremely difficult and a huge challenge not to have problems with the network by 2026 and to have sufficient charging pole infrastructure. But what about 2023? That's in a year and a half. Is there anyone who believes that there will be enough charging infrastructure by then to offer everyone an alternative? In addition, the low voltage grid is increasingly at its maximum capacity and a steady growth of home-charged e-vehicles cannot cope with the current investment rhythm of network operators. More and more, we get testimonies from households asking for a connection to a smart home loading pole, but they don't get them because they are the third, the fourth or the fifth in the street and would overload the grid, or because they are still connected to the monophasic 230-volt network, which doesn't allow a smart charging pole without strengthening the grid or increasing the connection at home, which costs a lot of money. I am only talking about the people who are in the luxury position to be able to place a loading pole at home and not yet all apartment residents and people who live in an urban context who fall completely out of the boat in that area. Numbers always say more than words. I asked a social secretariat how many commercial vehicles were under 25,000 euros. That's 130,000 at a social secretariat. How many electric cars, with which one can drive further than to the supermarket and back, are there currently under 25,000 euros on the market? That's almost none. Do you believe that by the middle of 2023 all these people will have an electrical alternative, which will also bring them to their destination, all with loading posts and the necessary infrastructure? I don't believe that. I fear that some people will not be able to load at home and many people are at risk of losing their small company car. Minister, I know that you must take this to heart, because a few weeks ago there was a debate with Minister Van der Straeten. Minister Van der Straeten said: "We need to do more and we need to move faster." You agreed, but you warned at the same time that the target should remain achievable for the working middle class. You said further, I quote: 'We must also ensure that we get ordinary people with us. Not everyone can pay for an electric car and a heat pump today." However, you have come up with a proposal in which people in transition are already faced with the choice of a more expensive electric car within a year and a half. How is this compatible with the target you want to achieve by 2030? I understand the policy choice to go for full electrification from 2026 on, but why do you choose in an intermediate phase, where there is still so much uncertainty, for a tax punishment for people who cannot opt for such a car? I also made these comments in committee and made two proposals or suggestions at that time. After all, you provide for an evaluation in the law, which is always good. However, the evaluation does not arrive until mid 2026. At that time, your new regime has already been fully implemented and the transition phase is already over. I have therefore proposed that the evaluation be brought forward and extended. At the moment it is limited to the budgetary context. I have proposed broadening them and ensuring that the evaluation also takes into account questions such as whether there is sufficient supply of cars, whether the wagons are affordable and whether there is sufficient capacity on the network to allow the cars to run. These are by chance also the three conditions that the Flemish government attaches to its transition to electric cars from 2029 onwards. Those conditions are not unreasonable. Members of the majority also agreed or agreed to do so. A second element that I had proposed was an amendment in which I would ask that, in the transitional phase, until 2026 and not later, hybrid cars should not be penalised for tax purposes and that they should benefit from the same tax regime that they now enjoy, in order to offer the people at risk of falling out of the boat the chance of an alternative, without being dependent on a loading infrastructure that will not be available for the next two or three years. I am putting the amendment back on the table because I believe that it can provide a solution to the most fundamental weakness in the draft law before us. If you could agree to this, we could go along with this draft of greening. We could then go along with that, because we also feel that there is a need for the proper deployment of the transition. I therefore retable the amendment today. I hope you can have ears for it. However, without the approval of the amendment, I fear that we will have to vote against it. Despite the commendable objective of greening, you do not have sufficient regard for the social aspect and for a whole pack of people who are at risk of falling off the boat in the interim phase.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip138x.u19	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, since the beginning of this legislature we have been discussing the greening of commercial vehicles in this House. As most of you know, the theme of commercial vehicles does not leave our group unmoved. Our analysis of the company cars system, especially the payroll cars, is that it is a sum of three problems. The first problem is a mobility problem. After all, these cars drive more often during rush hour. Nor is there any incentive for the user to leave the car and use an alternative because his contribution is fixed and therefore not dependent on the mileage travelled. It's even cheaper for that person to take the car than to use an alternative. The second problem is a climate problem. I just heard that we shouldn't talk about climate today, but I do want to talk about climate. Climate, environment and air quality are a major problem and this is also addressed in this issue. Commercial cars are often heavier cars and, partly because of the extra kilometres, they emit more CO2 and cause more air pollution, which is particularly felt in large cities such as Antwerp and Brussels. The third problem is a social problem. Some of the workers, often the better-earned, contribute less, which puts the burden on the shoulders of all workers. So it's a sum of three problems. We had already made this analysis of the system before the 2019 elections and it has not changed. We are sticking to that analysis, and we are and will continue to support paying people with euros instead of cars and diesel. We still want the system to go out in the longer term. The big question then is what is to be done if one is given the opportunity to participate in a project that tackles one of the three problems. Is it time and energy to take a step forward, or is it decided that there is only a project that tackles the three problems at the same time, knowing that there is no majority at the time? That majority was not even there during the period of current cases. We have chosen to contribute constructively to a proposal that addresses at least one of the three problems. I have worked actively with colleagues Van den Bergh from CD&V and Lachaert from the Open VLD for this purpose and in the end we have come to a basis that was later taken over by the government. That draft is before the vote today. Meanwhile, many specialists and opinion makers have expressed their views on the design. The car industry has said that the electric car would be equivalent to the fossil car by 2025, both in terms of price and performance. This bill gives the market an additional year and only enters into force in 2026. The leasing industry is developing new business models to subsequently market electric cars as second-hand cars. He does speak of an opportunity on the Belgian market, while many second-hand leasing cars are shipped abroad today. The international association Mobility and Environment has said that the measure is the most important climate measure that Belgium has taken in the past decade. I am therefore proud to be part of the team that is introducing this measure. I welcome the Flemish Government's intention to go in the same direction with private cars. After the greening of the commercial cars there will also be a greening of the private cars. Of course the context is not the same. This is because it is about people's behaviour, while in our design it is about the behaviour of companies. That is why it is important to give careful thought to accompanying measures in the case of private cars and to develop alternatives, such as public transport and cycling policy. The decision must be taken to consider how a modal shift can be set in motion. I understand that things had to be pretty quick with the Flemish government. The previous speaker said that it was not so much about the measure but rather about how the transition should be dealt with. In my opinion, Flanders has not yet worked out the transition, there is still much to be done. Apparently it is not even Flemish competence, but that is not the most important thing for me at the moment. The most important thing is that the majority in Flanders is convinced that greening the fleet is a good thing. And it is, provided the right framework is in place. If greening commercial cars is an important climate measure, so is greening private cars. However, all this has the effect that I am a little confused about the attitude of the N-VA colleagues. In committee, the N-VA voted against the greening of commercial vehicles, but three weeks later, on the other side of the street, suggested that the private cars should be greened. It's not easy to understand that logic. What's with the other attitude? What's with the spread mode? Colleague, you just explained it to me. You have gone into details but not on the broad lines. Let's see how both files evolve. In any case, this other attitude must be explained with more arguments. I hear here today that there is a stronger attitude towards people than towards companies. There may be another adder, which is why we want to return to the commitments made by the Flemish government. However, I hope from the bottom of my heart that this will not be the case. I also hope, from the bottom of my heart, that the N-VA will adopt this bill today, in order to follow the attitude of colleagues across the street consistently.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip138x.u20	You have referred to my speech all the time. Your speech was prepared before you heard mine, I understand. For ten minutes, however, I have only talked about the problems we have with the transition phase, and the principles of feasibility and affordability that we apply on the basis of the ABC test, in particular whether there is supply, whether the measures are affordable and whether there is sufficient capacity. These three elements are also used by the Flemish government on the other side of the street for its transition. We can't find it in the story. My comments and my position are very coherent with those of the Flemish Government. We're saying the exact same thing. It's about the transition. Of course we all want greening, but it is about how we want to achieve it. Flanders lays down conditions there. That's very important. I suggest that we apply the same framework conditions here too. You say it's about private individuals and about companies here. A small self-employed person who has to go to work by car or visit, such as a home nurse, is also a private individual. That person may be in a company car, but he will feel the measures equally fierce. I don't quite understand that distinction. I have been very clear in the reasons why we are opposed to the proposal, even though, of course, we agree with the medium-term objective.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip138x.u21	Mr Vanbesien, you are giving a very selective reading of the Flemish climate plan concerning the greening of the private car park. It has been outlined by Mr Donné. The conditionality and affordability are very important, but the real agenda in the story is the agenda of Mrs Peeters, Flemish Minister for Mobility. She has clearly stated in the press that one of her wet dreams is to see fewer cars on the track. Individuals do not necessarily need to have a car. For example, it pushes forward car parts as an alternative. That is the real agenda of greening and there is no other.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip138x.u22	Madam President, I would like to respond to Mr Donné's interruption. As a member of the majority, I naturally feel addressed, especially when we are discussing a draft that the Group of the European People's Party supports wholeheartedly. Mr Donné, you say that you support the objectives. In order to achieve objectives, there must be a willingness to make efforts. This is the aim of the draft law: to make the necessary efforts to make it a viable map for more individuals, self-employed persons and businesses to effectively move towards electric mobility. Yes, a terrible acceleration is needed in the creation of loading infrastructure, but in the design there are just measures that support that. Yes, it is true that there are not enough affordable electric cars on the market today, but there must be pressure on the market to create that supply. That offer will be made, because all car manufacturers have announced that they are going for full electric in the relatively short term. Next year and the following years, there will be more and more, also affordable, models on the market. Mr Donné, you come with the mantra of feasibility and affordability. Allow me to place this in the light of the attitude of the N-VA-led government, which is supposedly submitting plans to subscribe to the objective you claim to support here, but where that objective can never be achieved. We're supposed to get the CO2 reductions. The self-proclaimed ecorealists always advocate an unbridled belief in technological progress, innovation, the resilience and flexibility of our industry, the movement of peoples, in which we must be at the forefront. I am therefore surprised that you are hanging up a conservative story at the point mentioned, saying that it is not feasible. Evolution is taking place, colleagues of N-VA. We are given the choice of whether or not to go along with it, to go ahead, or to become a toy of the circumstances. In the latter case, we will have quite an invoice coming at us, not only for the budget, but also for the people in our country. That is what we want to avoid. I think your story is completely inconsistent with your statement that you support the objectives of the design. You must be prepared to make efforts to achieve objectives.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip138x.u23	Firstly, you are always talking about the efforts of governments. But it is not the governments that are making the effort, but the citizens. They will have to make the effort. It's not you, it's the citizens. We can each stick to our slogans, but I have one very specific question. Do you think that in a year and a half there will be a full electric alternative that is not more expensive for anyone who drives a company car, including the low wages that your party so to speak for? Do you dare say that with your hand on your heart? No.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip138x.u24	This shows an improbably one-sided view of mobility. The draft also includes adjustments to the mobility budget. This must ensure that it is no longer self-evident that workers are given their cars and then draw their plans, but that they have the choice of combining different mobility modes. These different modes also need to be invested, for example through collective transport solutions. For that, the government also pays extra money. But the Flemish government, over which your party has the leadership, has been saving on this for years. You're not investing in that. If one party makes a plea to ensure that everyone has access to sustainable mobility, it will be my party. If there is one party that is constantly doing the opposite, namely saving on the alternatives, then it is yours, Mr Donné. So put your hand in your own bosom first.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip138x.u25	Mr Donné, you accuse me of having written my speech before I knew what you were going to say, and my text is therefore incorrect. That's not entirely correct. Mr Donné, what you have said today, you have already said in committee. I knew what your arguments would be. If I say that I find your arguments for not supporting the draft law rather thin and in the margins, then you have confirmed that yourself by saying that you would agree, saying that the majority would agree to allow hybrid cars for another two years. So for you, supporting the bill depends on whether or not a hybrid car gets support for another two years. I think that is a detail, especially since Flemish minister Diependaele in Flanders has already abolished the tax advantage for hybrid cars. Cars that drive electric or with zero emissions do, but hybrid doesn't. For you, it makes a difference whether or not you support the bill. Secondly, you keep asking whether there will be affordable cars in each category within a year and a half. The bill will enter into force from 2026. That's later than in a year and a half. There will be a transitional period in which we will slowly encourage individuals and companies to switch to lower emissions and greening. The obligation will take effect from 1 January 2026. It is not an obligation, but the tax advantage disappears. Mr Ravyts, you say that the agenda of Flemish Minister Peeters is to consider a modal shift. The question is: how else can we organise mobility? I also think that one of the elements of the Flemish proposal that needs to be worked out. We need to think about public transport and that modal shift. I therefore welcome the agenda of Flemish Minister Peeters. What also pleases me is that the greening of the private car fleet in Flanders will also ensure that the necessary infrastructure will be made a priority. The draft law on which we are going to vote today includes a section on support for loading posts for individuals, as well as for companies that make their loading posts available to the general public. If Flanders will now also contribute to an accelerated roll-out of public charging stations and a strengthening of the electricity grid, then we will really work together on the same objective, each from our own powers. Working together is so much better than working against each other. I am therefore very much in favour of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip138x.u26	Madam President, Mr Vanbesien, I think I have read and discussed another draft law, including in the Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and Pensions. You say the scheme doesn't start until 2026. Do I read it wrongly that not only fiscal but also social contributions will be asked for significantly more as of mid- 2023? Mr Vandenbroucke also confirmed this in the Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and Pensions: the income of social contributions on commercial vehicles will double in the next five years. On the other hand, you say that the scheme will not enter into force in the next five years and will not enter into force until 2026. Are you saying that neither employers nor employees will notice anything about this bill before 2026? Or are you saying that they will notice that and did you make a mistake earlier?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip138x.u27	Mr. Anseuw, we won't notice anything until 2026.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip138x.u28	Mr Vanbesien, no one will feel anything fiscal before 2026? Is that what you're saying?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip138x.u29	Mr Donné, that is what I am saying.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip138x.u30	Have you read the bill?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip138x.u31	Yeah, I read that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip138x.u32	What happens to someone who buys a hybrid car or a car with an internal combustion engine in the middle of 2023?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip138x.u33	From 2026, these higher contributions will have to be paid.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip138x.u34	No, in the middle of 2023. Haven't you read that? Perhaps the Minister can confirm it? I think you might have another text. I'm sorry, I'm not laughing at that. In a year and a half, the loads will go up for people who can't buy an electric car. You say it goes into 2026. That's not right! I understand that you consider my amendment unnecessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip138x.u35	Madam President, I do not want to interfere in the discussion, but the phasing-in starts from 1 July 2023. That's the start date. Also what the N-VA says, especially in the field of taxation, is not correct. Of course, we have to take a starting date. The starting date of the phasing-in shall be fixed. What we're not doing is putting that starting date on today, tomorrow or early next year. We don't. We'll do that on July 1, 2023. At that point, we'll look at the kind of car. Is that an electric car? Then that is a positive situation, which already exists today and which we will have at that moment. All cars purchased from 1 July 2023 will be considered for the type of car. The tax impact will then apply from 1 January 2025, because then we will go to 75 %, 50 %, 25 % and 0 %. To say that from 1 July 2023 there will be a tax impact on the cars purchased from then on is therefore not correct. What is true, contrary to what Mr Vanbesien has just said, is that tax deductibility will fall from 100 % to 75% from 1 January 2025 and so on because we have agreed very clearly that from 1 January 2026 the full tax benefit will only apply to emission-free cars.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip138x.u36	Mr Vanbesien was therefore mistaken. I have one more question. You talked about the tax section. The estimated income of social security contributions as a result of this bill will double during that period because the government assumes that once more social contributions are requested, not all companies and employees will be able to meet what is required here. In other words, you impose something that you know cannot be met by everyone and will therefore have to pay. This government is counting on a doubling of social income on commercial vehicles only as a result of this bill, because that is what Minister Vandenbroucke said. And that increase is actually starting halfway through 2023, because it is assumed that in 2023 only 60% of the commercial vehicles that are covered by these social security contributions will be electric. This is not about EUR 10 or EUR 20 million, but about EUR half a billion a year if it comes at full speed. Half a billion euros of additional social contributions knocked out of people's pockets and not all of them can meet the conditions they have to meet in order to avoid the increase in social contributions. That's not policy-making, that's telling people to draw their plan if it doesn't work out. As Mr Donné has explained in detail, a company car is not an unnecessary luxury for many people, but an essential part of their remuneration. Often they also need them to do their job. However, the government says to these people that they have to draw their plan or that they have to pay double and fat. This is evident from the figures given by Minister Vandenbroucke. So it's bullshit that people won't feel any of this until 2026. More than that, they're basically flat lies. I'm sorry to put it so strongly, but it's just the way it is.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip138x.u37	In the meantime, we have had the discussion on that part. I would like to move on to another point, if you'll allow me. Mr Vandenbroucke has already said that today we are also adjusting the mobility budget system. That is particularly the credit of Mr Van den Bergh. This adjustment will also increase the popularity of the alternative to a company car. In this way we can begin to reduce the number of commercial vehicles, which is already a good start to work on the second of the three problems I have just outlined, namely congestion and mobility. There is another aspect of the acceleration of electrifying the fleet, in particular the energy transition, also a subject that is very close to your heart. My family's been driving an electric car for almost two years now. That's not a luxury model. It's a normal family car. My wife used that car to go to work. My experience is that the battery of that car is used for about 10 to 15 % of the day, but that the Audi Q5 stands still for most of the day. That will be the case for many cars. After all, we know that cars stand at 96 percent of the time on average. This week we were able to read in the press that home batteries sell as sweet sandwiches because of the high electricity price and the abolished reverse counter. When talking about home batteries, one usually talks about a battery of 5 to 10 kilowatt hours on average. My car has a 62 kilowatt-hour battery. As I said, it's usually mostly charged and the car stops for most of the time. What would happen if I could connect that battery to a two-way charging pole where my battery would charge if there was a surplus of green energy and would release energy when there is a peak in demand? If one can do that with several hundred thousand electric cars, then one can capture the big peaks in the demand for electricity. In that case, a nuclear power plant will be saved. Perhaps this technology will be more concrete, realistic, faster and cheaper than a possible modular nuclear power plant, which may be operational in 25 years' time. We will then have the necessary capacity with the batteries of the vehicles in question. That's not science fiction. The technology exists and is called vehicle-to-grid. Who knows, such a system could even compete in a subsequent survey for the CRM, in order to contribute to security of supply and reserve capacity. Finally, there is the third problem of commercial vehicles, namely the tax favor system and hence the aspect of social justice. The current Vivaldi government is working on a tax reform. The government agreement states that it is intended to turn alternative forms of remuneration towards remuneration in euros. The subject will be re-examined in this context. However, let us ensure that commercial vehicles, while still driving here, contribute at least to improving air quality, reducing our CO2 emissions and, who knows, even balancing our electricity network. Ladies and gentlemen, for all these reasons, our group will strongly support the draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip138x.u38	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is always very important to hear how the gurus of certain dossiers come to Parliament without adequate knowledge. Without the new legislation in force, we have seen over the past few weeks and months that the greening of commercial vehicles was not to be eliminated from the media. This was not only the case with the media, but also with a lot of fiscalists working on the dossier and a lot of webinars have been organised. Every time I heard about the greening of the company cars, however, I thought spontaneously of Holle Bolle Gijs. You guys know the rhyme of Gijs on the hollow, bollocks. That verse went as follows, colleagues: "Have you heard of the hollow, bulbous car / on which that Gijs sat? / He could scare / big chunks / a cow and a calf / and a whole horse half / an ox and a bull / seven tons of beer / a ship full of turnips / and a church full of sheep, / and yet Gijs of hunger could not sleep." I see a number of colleagues laughing, but actually Gijs here is a symbol of the Belgian state, which is indeed hollow and full. Why is that Belgian state hollow, colleagues? Because that artificial state, the hardworking Flame, over and over again doesn't give him the policy he deserves. A hollow state, because measures are constantly being taken here without adequate thought. Why is the Belgian state bulbous? It is full because he likes to sit in the pockets of the common man and of the entrepreneurs who will have to pay again, the entrepreneurs who ultimately create the prosperity in this country. Why is the Belgian state bulbous? Because they never have enough, so we already have almost the highest taxes in the world. What do you get in return? Nothing or nothing. Why is the Belgian state still bulbous? Because we cannot get enough of the climate symbolism in this House. Colleagues, just because the Belgian state is hollow and bulbous and the Fleming is treated like an empty milk cow, these commercial vehicles are so popular. In the past, companies have shown the necessary creativity to keep work affordable and it has gradually become part of the package. As a result, as the draft law states, there are indeed 700,000 commercial vehicles in this country. However, we must dare to put these figures in the right perspective. Ten percent of all cars on the road are commercial cars. The average company car has an age of one and a half years. The average private car is ten years old. The latter account for 90% of the fleet. I'm not making up these numbers. A year before this draft law was discussed in the Finance Committee, we have already held hearings in the Climate Commission on a number of legislative proposals from colleagues. I can only conclude that commercial vehicles are generally young cars with low CO2 emissions. Companies are already taking responsibility today. I am not in favour of punishing private car ownership, which the Flemish Government does in the climate plan it quickly drew up last week, and with which it sold its soul, in order to be able to join the dessert of COP26. The explanatory memorandum of the draft law is clear, it is about achieving the European targets by 2030. Even if the company cars are not the big problem at all, the companies have to pay for this. The result is that they then sell those electric cars to private individuals on the second hand market. The left ones are rubbing their hands today anyway. For many years now, the left-wing parties, socialists and greens, have been particularly envious and jealous of workers who drive a company car, perhaps because they all have to do with a baking bike. Now, please do something about taxes on work. That is the key to fewer commercial cars on the track. Today everything is framed in climate goals. That is to say, for many Members of this House today, it is another high day. A few weeks ago, we also had a high day here with the adoption of the COP resolution26. Prime Minister Alexander De Croo has already had his political orgasm, if I may say so, at COP26 when he spoke in front of an empty room, which says everything about the interest in this country. Today, Parliament wants to have a similar highlight, anything to feed the climate symbolism. The COP26 is still in the process; what a good signal it is to be able to vote on the legislative text before us today. However, I have to say that the legislation is seen by a lot of companies as an anti-climax, and it does not make me particularly wild. How can we encourage companies to drive electric, while hardly any ministers themselves assume responsibility for their own transport? The same applies to politicians, because I do not see many electric cars in Parliament's parking garage. Speaking of hypocrisy... For many years now, commercial vehicles have been subject to debate in Parliament. I'd be happy to take you back in time. It started with the Di Rupo government a few years ago. It began to build on the advantage of all kinds, such as the benefit of all kinds to employees and the share of rejected expenses in corporation tax. There are more commercial cars in Flanders than in Wallonia; of course some of them are very convenient. In the previous legislature, with the Michel government, there was the reform of corporate tax. Deductibility would eventually fall as well. A lower deductibility was introduced as a kind of compensatory measure, as the corporate tax rate would fall. From 2020 onwards, the average deductibility of a company car has already fallen by at least 20%. The rejected expenditure has gone up hugely as a compensatory measure for that lower rate of corporation tax. On top of that is the whole system of CO2 emissions, in which we are no longer allowed to work with the NEDC emission standard. In the meantime, it has become WLTP standard, which has already increased average CO2 emissions and reduced deductibility further. It is particularly sad that the evaluation of the new legislation on deductibility rules has not been delayed. They have immediately shown the ambition to make the regulations more criminal. However, the previous legislation only entered into force in tax year 2021, financial year 2020. This means that the company returns have only been filed for one year under the new rules and now there are going to be different rules, more criminal and worse. I don't understand. That says everything about legal certainty in this country. It seems that there is a very short memory and has already been forgotten that new legislation has only just entered into force. Companies have to keep following each time and they are expected to switch gears with a simple push of a button every time the legislation changes. I don't think that's how the world works. To date, the Minister cannot guarantee legal certainty, even with the proposed legislation. Why? The draft stipulates that an evaluation will be carried out in 2026 in the light of public finances. This means that if it is established in 2026 that there will be little money in the cash, the law will be amended again. I guarantee you, colleagues, that will happen. To date, I have not received any answers to the question of how to compensate the billions of euros in taxes, excise duties and VAT at the pump. Who's gonna pay that bill? I don't hear anything about that. So that means that the sword of Damocles hangs over the head of those who order an electric car tomorrow. After all, legal certainty does not exist in this country. Perhaps next year you will come up with new rules of deduction and the citizens will be back on their feet. So those who switch will be fooled. Only one fiscal year has been completed under the new deduction rules. When I look at the past, ladies and gentlemen, we see that the deductibility for 2019, the year 2020, for a somewhat economical car with relatively low CO2 emissions was around 80%. According to the draft law, the rate of deductibility will be 67.5% from 2031 onwards. If we draw the timeline and put everything into perspective, then one can only conclude that you are telling people something. I wonder which one of you has already visited a car dealer. There are hardly any electric models in the showrooms. Anyone who orders an electric car today will notice that it will not be delivered until 2023. Some car manufacturers even place certain electric models on hold because there is no point in ordering them, as they are not available. This has to do, among other things, with the shortage of chips, think of the burned-down factory in China and the hurricane that caused damage in a factory in the United States. Chinese and American cars are still available for a few months, but all European car manufacturers of electric cars cannot follow and can not even deliver electric cars in 2022. How can some people be so alien? Suppose one can buy one of these cars and get rid of his company car in 2023. Not all commercial vehicles enter the private market. If another manager is interested and registers that car, then there is the new tax deduction scheme of 2023, which means that the cars on the second-hand market are no longer worth anything. This puts extra costs in the hands of the companies. There will therefore be no affordable alternatives, not in 2022 and not in 2023. You simply don't know the market. Not only the delivery period is a problem, but also the price. Let me give you an example. An SME employs a representative who travels many kilometres and needs a car. For someone who has to drive around all day, a car with a driving range of 200 km is insufficient and a more expensive model has to be purchased. It will soon reach a price of 65,000 to 70,000 euros. An SME can't afford that. It is said that the mobility budget will enable the employee to choose in the future, but companies will no longer allow their employees to choose because they do not want to spend EUR 65,000, not even for a representative who needs his car every day. You are also telling people something when you say that electric cars will eventually become cheaper than cars with internal combustion engines. I hear quite different signals: an electric car will never have a lower cost than a car with an internal combustion engine, unless it gives its employees a much smaller car or a bald car without options. Maybe one can get around more or less, but please let us stop comparing apples with pears. Also in terms of the offer in the coming years, you cannot give any guarantee, not in 2022, not in 2023 or beyond. I see another problem, namely everything related to electricity and supply. It's already close. Minister Van der Straeten is pulling and dragging her files to get everything around. The failing energy policy will already lead to massive imports of energy. It is true that the legislation provides for investment in loading posts to be encouraged, but the investment in a charging pole can only be subtracted if it uses electricity from renewable energy, while the government itself wants to open up gas plants, which do not provide renewable energy. Will all SNCB's trains be driving around with renewable energy? Please start with yourself before you impose obligations on companies and employees. This policy will also only lead to higher demand for electricity, which will increase its price and increase the cost of domestic electricity. So it will also be more expensive to have Mother's washing machine run the woman. As far as loading infrastructure is concerned, it is particularly difficult for the inhabitants of densely populated cities, such as my city of Turnhout, to charge their car when they have finally purchased an electric car. In a densely populated center with driving houses it is not possible to just lay a cable over the sidewalk. That's not the point. Filling up the whole city with loading posts won't be a solution either. These are all challenges that we face today and which are not sufficiently guaranteed. I would dare to say that you forgot to tell people something, but in the end Mr Vanbesien has just lifted the tip of the veil. Car batteries must be a buffer in the future. The electric cars must therefore be the solution to the failing energy policy, as security of supply is compromised. So you can't charge your car at home whenever you want. The car batteries serve as a buffer, which means that you will have to wash and cook with the electricity of your car in the future, and in fact will have to give up your freedom. In fact, the commercial vehicles are being abused again for the failing energy policy. Before you suspect me of being a sourdough politician, I would like to say that I welcome technology. I personally am an early adopter, I will always go along with my time and I have absolute confidence in technological developments. So I am not against electric cars, quite the contrary. However, I look at technology and progress without blinkers, without ultimately making people worse. A revolution is not good in this case. Evolution would be much better. Sometimes I am in favour of a revolution when it comes to making this Parliament a museum, for example, but all madness on a stick: that evolution must be feasible and affordable. That is not the case today. We're moving too fast. It's switching too fast. That greening will cause an impoverishment. We see this also in many other matters relating to the energy transition, with everything that is now happening with COP26. The bill will be paid by someone. One time it is the consumers, today it is the companies that will get a paid bill. It's all very nice that companies are told to buy electric cars. Eventually, they come on the private market, but what should happen to all those commercial cars with an internal combustion engine that are still driving around? Is it then intended to put them on the boat in Antwerp and ship them to Africa massively so that we can get rid of them? Maybe that's the point. Is that your ambition? Then where's the climate gain? When we talk about technology, we have to be open to everything, but all I hear here is electrification. All eggs are placed in the basket of electrification and electric cars. Much has already been said about carbon-neutral synthetic fuels in the past. Where do we stand on that? Is that also an option in the future? What about hydrogen? There are plenty of developments there, but there is no mention of them. Only electrification is discussed, including by the Flemish Government. However, I believe that these are all valid technologies to take into account in this story. I would have liked to have seen specific action taken on those very polluting cars, which Hummers and the pick-ups, which are registered as light cargo but are not used as such. They can be fully deducted today. There's one of the problems, that's one of the challenges. That would have been just. What about hybrid cars that are never charged but are simply refueled, with average consumption even higher than a classic car? If you had come up with these measures today, I could have said that it is a good thing that we need them. Today, for the umpteenth time in a row, a new rabbit is being magicalized from the top hat. Colleagues, remember that you tried to discourage diesel a few years ago. Remember the prices on the pump. Diesel would be more expensive and gasoline cheaper. What did we finally see? It was a hollow decision, because diesel cars are much better equipped with certain filters. Diesel cars also consume a third less. What effect does this have on CO2 emissions? The Fleming swallowed again and bought gas engines massively. Announcement policy was made. On the second-hand market diesel cars were no longer worth anything, they did not lose their car. Meanwhile, the pump shows that petrol has become more expensive than diesel. So these people have been bought again. Then there was the new straw, everyone had to drive a hybrid car. However, what do we see happening today? The hybrid cars are aligned with the classic internal combustion engines. Now that that's over, we're going completely for electrification. Every few years, you come here with something else. Mr Minister, I know that you are not banning cars with internal combustion engines, that is correct, but companies are being very badly pumped. Just look at the multiplication factors for the RSZ. In 2023, the figure is 2.25 %, in 2026 it is 4 %, and in 2027 it is 5.5 %. Those are huge amounts of money. The question then is what will be next. What legal certainty do companies have that will anticipate this new legislation in good faith? What guarantee do they have that within a few years you will not be standing here again with new rules? Colleagues of the majority, think of the workers in particular. By making driving unaffordable, companies will eventually stop giving their employees a car, while you do nothing about the burden on labour, the workers will be deprived of it. Don't forget that. It's part of the reward package. So you're also playing with the employee's wallet. Colleagues, in other words, you have not chosen the path of evolution, you have not chosen a socially acceptable solution you have not chosen to integrate this reform into a comprehensive fiscal reform. That little bit of mobility budget I don't call reform. You have not chosen peace in the law, for each time you come up with something else. That's why you don't find a partner in us for this bill. Climate fetishism has won it again from the ratio. The Fleming's life is becoming more and more priceless and so is the business, because this time it is their turn. We're not in on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip138x.u39	Madam President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today's draft is being put to the vote on a number of key interests of our state: taxation, energy and climate policy. How to marry all this to get a deal? By reaching a compromise, that is, an arrangement in which mutual concessions are made. Or, then, another meaning of the word compromise: we are in an intermediate state, a medium term before something else, in other words, a transitional period. This is in line with the government agreement, which first provides that all new corporate vehicles will have to be carbon neutral by 2026 in order to improve air quality – I think this can really contribute – reducing the climate impact on our transport – says so, it can contribute but there is not only the climate impact on our transport – and encouraging innovation in the automotive sector – probably that will help a little. Then, the government will put in place – I recall the agreement – "a framework that allows workers who do not have a company car to receive a mobility budget from their employer. In this way, sustainable mobility alternatives (public transport, bicycles, carbon neutral cars, etc.) will be encouraged. and the will to live or move near his place of work." Walking is also an important element. In this regard, we hope, the MR, that the proposed adaptations to the mobility budget will increase its success, thereby prolonging a policy that we ourselves had undertaken under the previous government. Beyond these extremely ambitious objectives which I have just outlined but which are not the only ones, the project consolidates two important achievements in our view. That is the part of the compromise that is of great interest to us. Indeed, the reform does not affect the formula of the benefit of any kind in the worker's head, who therefore does not see his personal situation changed. The advantage of any kind is calculated on the basis of the catalog value and is conditioned by the level of CO2 emission of the vehicle, which results in a sharp reduction of this advantage in its head. This measure does not increase the overall taxation of the worker. The reform takes into account the specific nature of commercial vehicles, and hence the professional life of self-employed persons who have vans and trucks, which therefore remain outside the scope of the law. This type of vehicle, which is very important to a large number of workers, can only be less deductible when it is clearly established that the electric van sector is only technologically in its infancy, unlike that of cars. Nevertheless, incentives are provided for the professional investment of carbon-free trucks, hydrogen charging infrastructure and electric charging infrastructure. In order to ensure this effectiveness, the project also contains an appointment clause. It's very important. I come back to my first point: we are in the medium term, in a transition, in an intermediate state where parties forming a majority make mutual concessions that create legal effects. These will have to be assessed – it seems imperative and essential to me. It is therefore a matter of carefully monitoring the development of the market for electric vehicles. Minister of Finance, it is indicated that you will conduct an annual follow-up to measure how the supply and use of zero-carbon company cars track the demand. The results will be discussed for the first time in a working group in the third quarter of 2022. In addition, the Minister of Finance will conduct an annual monitoring of the purchasing power and competitiveness of businesses. I heard earlier that this was putting the legal framework before us. I don't think that's the problem. The legal framework is sound and I think it is particularly clear. Rather, it is to see how, in reality, this legal framework will be implemented and what can be expected. I do not believe that Minister Van Peteghem suddenly guesses, months in advance, how the market will behave in relation to this new standard, how the purchasing power of citizens will evolve in relation to it and what the behaviour of players in the market will be. These are quite classic monitoring procedures. They are absolutely essential in these policies. The latter may, for reasons not always anticipated, experience technological disruptions that completely change the situation at certain times in the process. In addition, they are extremely technical materials, in which fewer and fewer people are able to have a global view. I've seen it many times. However, these materials are filled with enormous emotions. The bill that proposes a major reform still raises practical issues, of course to which attention must be paid, such as the capacity of the electricity distribution network. It's good to use all corporate cars as a giant battery. However, the electricity distribution network must be able to absorb this shock and at the same time monitor developments. These concern not only employers' purchases for their employees, but also those of individuals who would become owners of electric cars. The impact of the place of residence on the distribution and installation of charging stations has yet to be considered. We understand all this quite easily. With this in mind, I draw the attention of all my colleagues to two important points which the appointment clause must allow us to keep a constant eye on. First, these are the potential additional budgetary costs. There will already be a lot with CRM, with the energy standard, and with offshore degression that concern our production fleet. These electric cars, of course, will have to be able to power them, and to generate electricity in addition to what we have today. Secondly, the expected gains in reducing CO2 emissions through electrification of the entire company fleet raise the delicate question of the energy projection made by this government and the installation of gas-fired power plants in our production fleet. I will stop for a few moments to do a little bit of daily life as some of my colleagues have done. I'm driving with a hybrid car. Fortunately, there is a limit with two stops in this Parliament. I hope that, quickly, following the logic of our legislation and the one we are going to vote for today, we will see, Madam President, the installation of much more interesting and accessible charging stations in this Parliament. Secondly, it is clear that people who have a hybrid car or an electric car, who feel under moral pressure and who are sent a series of recurring messages that consist of saying that they must make efforts, are ready to make these efforts. They are willing to put money in it, even if it is expensive and even if they are helped through this kind of legislation. They are asked to electrify their transport and make sure to emit as little CO2 as possible, but we will ruin their efforts with the installation of gas plants that produce 40 times more CO2 than our nuclear power plants. It is a message that is difficult to convey, you will agree. This message is found everywhere and for all ages. An engineer of my knowledge has a child about fifteen years of age who has to do a duty on electric cars and give his point of view on this technology. The father helps him and explains to him the German example. He explained to his son the German energy mix which, up to 38%, consists of coal and lignite power plants, which are polluting and emit fine particles. This fifteen-year-old understands that the electric car with which we will drive will be powered by a system that produces a lot of harmfulness in terms of CO2 and fine particles. He says that to his teacher and his fellow students and gets rid of by the teacher who calls him an idiot. Since he's fifteen, he thinks his teacher needs to know something more than him and his dad and he prefers to keep quiet to avoid beatings. That's where we are! There will be a need for a lot of pedagogy and intelligence in the government's upcoming decisions on production parks. A production fleet is not used to look good or to show that the necessary finances are available to build power plants, it is used to ensure a country's security of supply. This must be guaranteed with a sufficient degree of energy independence. It is for this reason that it is necessary to maintain a production fleet that emits as little CO2 as possible – I have just mentioned – and is also sufficiently robust. Our neighbouring countries – France, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom – which make the choice of nuclear power and its new technologies, do not have a great deal of overcapacity and may not be able to send us electricity when we need it. We are impoverishing our production fleet while in case of great cold, we are going to have to buy electricity at high prices – and perhaps we will not even have one. This will lead to obvious security of supply concerns. If so, it will be necessary to stalemate on electric cars and walk on foot. Trains will also have to be stopped, which is part of the clearance plan. Mr Finance Minister, the challenge of reform is very ambitious and requires careful monitoring of the situation. It is not just a question of fiscal and social greening of mobility, nor of the environment; it is also a question of responding technically and globally adequately to the climate challenges, to the security of supply of our country and to the electricity bills of our citizens. Finally, let us not forget that we will have to integrate harmoniously into this specific reform everything that the tax reform you create will bring us. You are faced with a very heavy and titanic task – we realize – in which we will support you. In this regard, I would like to remind you that we want to organise a very broad consultation on this reform, not only with the Higher Finance Council but also with civil society – not only with the institutions, but also with citizens, tax professionals and entrepreneurs. I would also stress the emotional aspect of our task in the light of a major tax reform and given the very difficult time that citizens and businesses are going out of, or at least at the beginning of, the exit from the health crisis. Their expectations for you are enormous and emotional, I repeat. I would particularly like to stress, Mr. Minister, the need to reduce the tax on labour because it is among the highest in the world. I recall the efforts of the previous government that have borne fruit in this regard. This reduction in the tax on labour must benefit all workers, regardless of their income. There is no question of a reform that benefits only very low incomes, without aiming at the middle class that we defend beak and nails – and even more so after this health crisis! We must also not forget the small public servants, the employees and the self-employed – both large and small. All the objectives that we must pursue must also contribute to increasing the employment rate, encouraging entrepreneurship, the willingness to carry out projects and to be active in our society in order to participate in redistribution and in stimulating investment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip138x.u40	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have already seen it here today: the company car, the payroll car, the firm car, whatever name is given to it, has for many years been highly emotional when it comes to the subject. A lot of discussion is being held between the owners and the beneficiaries as well as the employees who do not have a company car. Here too, in Parliament and in politics, the subject of remuneration, mobility and climate has long been unimaginable. All too often the debates fall into simplistic slogans as the statement that the government is swinging billions of subsidies to expensive commercial cars. Of course there is a bit of truth in every slogan, but it is still unthinkable that the deletion of the system would result in automatic recovery of less revenue by the government. Either this would have a serious impact on the wages of the workers concerned, or on the cost structure of the employers, perhaps on both. Moreover, this will not generate the billions for government and social security, as some see it. Some colleagues have already misjudged this. That is why it is so important that the issue of the company car, which is mainly one of wage costs and wage formation in our country, as previous speakers have pointed out, should be taken into account in the major fiscal reform that the Minister of Finance is preparing. This is certainly not an easy task: a miracle solution in which no one loses is not obvious. Of course, we have every confidence in it. There is also no doubt that the issue of labour costs has important effects on mobility and climate. As someone once said, "Every downside has its advantage," we can make the system, which some are rattling because we pay in the form of cars, a lever of greening for our mobility. The present draft law transforms the company car system into an instrument of transition to emission-free commercial vehicles. Cars without CO2 emissions should become the standard for those driving a company car from 2026 onwards. The tax deduction for new diesel and petrol commercial vehicles will be phased out step by step from 2023 and will disappear completely from 2026. The fuel map for fossil fuels will disappear and the CO2 solidarity contribution for new commercial cars with an internal combustion engine will go up step by step. This means the end of indirect support for polluting cars. This means an accelerated reduction of up to 13 million tonnes of CO2 emissions. Less fine dust, more healthy air, more quality of life. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister of Finance is also a climate minister today. Moreover, the reform takes place without a loss of purchasing power or a tax increase for a particular target group. It's a reform for several years. A clear multi-annual path is being established today, which creates a predictable investment environment. That is also not insignificant, with companies in our country such as Audi, Volvo, Umicore and a number of smaller ones working on that track. This also provides clarity for investors in loading stations. That story is getting stuck in a chicken or egg story today. There are relatively few electric vehicles. There is relatively little enthusiasm to invest in loading infrastructure. There are few loading posts and there is also little enthusiasm to purchase an electric vehicle. With a company car park that completely switches over within a clear time frame, the chicken or egg problem is broken and there is a clear investment framework. This is also accelerated by the support mechanism for the roll-out of loading posts, which is included in the draft law. In other words, there are many social benefits to the new framework for the company cars, barely two years after the seemingly unbridgeable bickering about the same company cars in the run-up to the 2019 elections. Such a reform seemed impossible at the time, but today the Minister is presenting a broad-based draft. On this reform, William Todts, the director of the European Environmental Think Tank Transport & Environment, states that it is the most significant measure in ten years. I quote: 'There are few measures that will save as much CO2 as the greening of commercial vehicles in the short term'. When we add all that together, the reform is like Columbus' egg. However, no more than saying that the abolition of commercial vehicles could save two to four billion euros, it can be said that the system of commercial vehicles would be a sustainable solution for our mobility and our society, even if they all become emission-free. We are now using the system to accelerate the sustainability of the fleet. That's a positive story. However, this does not mean that we should be blind to its negative effects. A company car in the driveway is a limiting factor in the amount of mobility of the beneficiary. We all know that a company car is used much more than a non-company car, which makes sense. The more it is used, the more it will pay for the beneficiary. The beneficiary will also never think about choosing another means of transport for a further journey, for example a combination of the train with other means of transport. This costs the employee money at that time, while the company car can be used for virtually free. In fact, the more it's used, the more it's used. The move towards emission-free vehicles is a significant reduction in CO2 emissions, and we are taking a huge step forward in the fight against particulate matter and air pollution, but we are not remedying the one-sided self-dependency that the company car leads to. We also do not remedy the automaticity of taking the car before each move, with all the consequences for our public space, in which these expensive cars are more stationary than driving. Although there are still more non-business cars, the commercial vehicles have an important impact. After all, the average company car travels many kilometres, even after correction for professional use, namely about 9,000 kilometers extra per year per company car. Moreover, they are overrepresented in traffic jams during daily traffic peaks, because of course these company cars are mainly used for commuting. It is estimated that half of the cars in the traffic jams around Brussels today are company cars. So they lead to more car kilometres and increase traffic jams. Most commercial vehicles are also diesel cars, with an important impact on our environment and our air quality, especially in densely built environments. In addition, they are usually larger and heavier than private cars, which has an effect on emissions but also on the storage of space and road safety. Those are all reasons to focus on alternatives. With the mobility budget, we can offer a strong and attractive alternative, which offers more mobility for the same money. It is a range of means of mobility that will allow everyone to weigh up the best means of transport or the best combination of means of transport for the combination they have to make. It is a range of mobility that can break the automatism of the car as the only choice. That must be the target. By the way, there is a growing group of young people who are not waiting for a car in the pay package. Certainly young urbaners often have alternatives, both public transport and part mobility, and need to buy expensive parking space every day for that car they get on pay or to search every night for a parking space that takes up space on the public domain. There is certainly potential to make the mobility budget a success. It's not that today, we shouldn't be faint about that. The mobility budget was installed two years ago through the legal framework of March 2019 and is not yet an overwhelming success. There are few hard figures available. There are some data from the social secretariats, but it is certainly an instrument that is not yet widely established. It is not widely used as an alternative to the company car. The spirits, however, ripen quickly. A lot of companies are thinking about their mobility policy today. After all, climate and sustainability are also important challenges for companies in their policies. Living and working mobility is an important part of this. Leasers who have been focusing on cars for years are also transforming into multimodal mobility operators step by step today. Many start-ups also respond to the growing range of on-call mobility, on part mobility, and develop apps to make the offer, public and private, easily accessible, with one button so to speak. Mobility as a service. These are all evolutions that fit perfectly within the mobility budget and for which the mobility budget, if properly worked out, can be a lever. They also make it our belief that we must continue to move towards the mobility budget, but that we will have to adapt it on a number of points. The introduction of the mobility budget, some two years ago, also created a website: mobility budget.be, on which many frequently asked questions have been answered over the past two years about the practical implementation of the mobility budget. I do not know if there are any colleagues who have followed this website, but there are many practical questions and many workable answers. I believe the people behind that website deserve a feather. This website has also taught us a great deal of lessons on how the mobility budget is not yet sufficiently attractive, where there are obstacles to introducing the mobility budget and where the mobility budget is not sufficiently flexible. With the articles of the draft law before us today, we are trying to adapt a sleeve there. We are trying to simplify, flexibilise the mobility budget system, and we are trying to broaden its scope. We do this, among other things, by recording the parking costs at the station. If we want to strengthen the combination of forms of mobility, the costs must be included in the mobility budget. We are doing so by enabling the pedestrian premium within the second pillar. We are doing so by extending the possibilities of providing electric propulsion equipment, light electric vehicles. We do so by contributing to the financing of public transport subscriptions, including for family members, through the mobility budget. After all, the company car is often used in a family context. Then the financing of the alternatives must also be possible. Many other adjustments are being made, including the not always so simple calculation of the TCO, the total cost of ownership, which determines the amount of the mobility budget. That calculation will be simpler. It is also very important to remove the thresholds for workers. Until now, they had to drive their company car for a year before they could qualify for the mobility budget. This threshold is now being removed, thereby increasing the accessibility of the system. We would also have liked to have increased the waiting period of 36 months for employers, but the advice of the social partners - employers and employees together - explicitly advocated the retention of this waiting period, as a form of measure to combat abuse. We respect this opinion, of course, but I think that in future we need to look at the anti-abuse provisions and see what are an obstacle to making the mobility budget a success. In any case, we are convinced that the proposed adjustments to the mobility budget reduce the thresholds, simplify the calculations and broaden the possibilities. This boosts the mobility budget as an alternative to the company car, in favour of the viability of our mobility. The draft law before us creates an important framework for our future mobility. The move towards an emission-free commercial vehicle fleet is considerably accelerated and the effect of this accelerated electrification should not be underestimated. This is a major step forward for our climate and for air quality. In addition to the accelerated greening of the company car fleet, the draft law before us also creates additional incentives to encourage the transition of unimodal car use from commercial cars to multimodality, with the more flexible, accessible and more flexible mobility budget. Minister, your draft contains many valuable aspects and it is a piece of administrative art that you can present to Parliament today. We are also pleased that through this draft, several legislative proposals, which have been brought together in Parliament from the very beginnings of different parties, have been transposed into new legislation. Around the greening we worked together before this government was formed, beyond the borders of the then majority and opposition. I therefore believe that it is appropriate to thank those colleagues who have contributed to this. The mobility budget also has a long parliamentary history. The first proposal we put forward on this issue dates back about eight years ago. It is therefore no coincidence that the parliamentary search for constructive proposals and cooperation in the coalition today lead to the adoption of this important bill, apart from the Twitter policy and polarisation, but with clear leaps forward for our climate and for our mobility. We shall be voting for this bill with great enthusiasm.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip138x.u41	Colleagues, I will begin with a paradox. Indeed, the majority is announcing a major tax reform – Mrs Marghem again referred to it earlier. The Minister of Finance, who has just eclipsed, tells us and tells us almost every week that the government is going to undertake a major tax reform, the central part of which would be the abolition or, at least, the drastic limitation of tax niches. I want to talk about all these deductions that make our tax system more complex and very unfair to taxpayers, and the removal of which would significantly reduce tax rates. This great reform is therefore announced, but we do not know if we will ever see the colour. Before we even see the silhouette, we are being presented with a bill that creates one of our main tax niches, corporate cars. That's pretty amazing! If the major tax reform is presented to us in a few months, it will be difficult to return to this niche, which is a huge gift to the employers. In this way, he can pay his workers by dispensing with paying part of their wages to social security and the tax authorities. This huge gift amounts to €3.75 billion a year. Of course, this fiscal niche has a negative impact on our public finances and social security. Moreover, this tax niche of corporate cars is socially unfair. In fact, it is mainly workers who have high incomes who benefit from it. 51 per cent of company cars are concentrated in the 10 per cent of the population with the highest incomes. If we take the 30% of the highest income, they account for 82% of company cars. There is even gender discrimination, as three-quarters of company cars are available to men, and only one-quarter are available to women. There is another way to take the question. It can be considered in the light of the increase in wages. We know that this government blocked wages through the Dermagne decree. We are close to absolute zero: 0.2% per year. Therefore, the only way to try to obtain an increase by a diverted route is to link it to alternative remunerations such as the company car that is growing more and more, again to the detriment of social security and public finances. These systems are indeed gifts to the bosses, as I have just said, but they are also part of what can be called salary paternalism on the part of the employer. It is the employer who finally decides how the worker will spend part of his salary, that which is paid through these alternative remunerations. We come back almost to the 19th century when the employer retained part of the worker's salary to pay for the dwelling that belonged to the employer or to charge for the goods that the worker would buy in the owner's shop. In this regard, the PTB has a clear position. We defend the gradual abandonment of the system of company cars, from this immense gift to the employers, and the idea of compensation for workers, in the form of a gross wage increase. Specifically, the net benefit of the company car would be calculated and the employer would pay the gross amount that would allow the employee to receive the same net amount as the employee had. The majority say that there is still an evolution in the car fleet, that it is better to have electric company cars rather than carbon cars. But what you have to see is that it is above all a way to cement the company cars! In this sense, the majority follows the lobby of European multinationals in the automotive sector, which has a clear plan, expressed: to put everything on the electric vehicle so that it can continue to produce even more cars. The majority is in line with this logic of building ever more cars for the benefit of the multinational industry in this sector. However, the electric car is far from being the universal panacea! She won't solve the bottling issues. It also prevents a credible alternative in terms of public transport. Indeed, the billions spent on financing company cars are not used for the development of public transport. There is no alternative worthy of this name. This government closes the stations instead of opening them. The railway workers denounce the underfunding of rail transport. There is no real alternative, such as the one in Luxembourg, with free public transport. In addition to road congestion, the environmental impact of the electric car is catastrophic. The processes of metal extraction necessary for the manufacture of electric cars (copper, lithium, aluminum) are extremely polluting.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip138x.u42	Mr President, I do not intend to hold a long debate here with Mr. Van Hees, but I cannot let it be said that this government is doing nothing for alternative transport or public transport. That's not only wrong, it's not true at the moment! I demonstrated this here in the general State of the Union discussion a few weeks ago. We're going to conduct the budget debates again, you'll see. Mr Van Hees, what you are saying is serious! The way in which your party's politics is made a real concern! We can have social debates, but unfortunately the figures are extremely stubborn. To say that this government does nothing for rail and for improving the conditions of commuters is wrong! We can always do better and more and I'm waiting for your proposals! Please stop spreading inaccurate things! With respect to your criticism of this bill, I will respond later. I will not let it pass when you or a member of your party spread information that is simply false!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip138x.u43	Mr President, I had hoped to hear the views of the PVDA-PTB on electrification of the fleet in general, not only of commercial vehicles, but also of private cars. What about the electrification of the fleet in Wallonia? Has the Walloon Government announced the same measures for the private market as the Flemish Government? How do you feel about that? I am curious because Wallonia covers many rural areas, which are less densely populated. What is the situation in Wallonia? I myself live in a province with a lot of rural areas. I think that the inhabitants of these areas are not making a social assessment of the current evolution. Not so long ago, Prime Minister De Croo in Ghent attended the production of the first 100% electric C40, the smallest model Volvo, for the common man and was very enthusiastic in interviews that car manufacturers are evolving, but the VRT journalist Mr Vandenbroucke certainly has to listen to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip138x.u44	Mr. Vanden Burre, your numbers are wrong. We will have an opportunity to return to this during the budgetary debates. Simply put, you're already telling us – it's elementary in budgetary matters – that you mix investments with current spending and you're coming with figures that mix these two notions. Already at the base, you have to review how you calculate. You take back the statements of the Minister of Transport, who is also making the same confusions. However, he was a long time in the Finance Committee. I therefore assume that these are notions that he can distinguish. I will show you that your figures are wrong during the budget debates. Minister, I invite you to pay attention to the reactions of commuters to rail transport policy, for example. They're pulling the alarm bell. The railway workers say that underfunding is such that they can no longer work and that they can no longer work under these conditions. Even Infrabel says that what is given to him is totally inadequate. Just the field actors say it already. I have obviously not prepared the figures here, neither have you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip138x.u45	Mr. Van Hees, I'm reacting to the lies you're spreading. You haven't prepared anything, and you're saying it. It's serious!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip138x.u46	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip138x.u47	I repeat what you just said. You say, "I don't have the numbers in front of me, but I still conclude that nothing is done for SNCB." I'm just correcting when you say wrong things.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip138x.u48	Minister, during the budgetary debates, I will show you that your figures are wrong.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip138x.u49	Go on, Mr. Van Hees!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip138x.u50	Thank you, Mr. President. What I was telling you is that the electric car is far from being the universal panacea. This does not regulate traffic congestion or environmental impact, which Mr Vanden Burre should be concerned about. The environmental impact of the electric car is catastrophic. The processes of metal extraction necessary for the manufacture of electric cars (copper, lithium, aluminium, rare earth) are extremely polluting. To give you an example, Mr. Vanden Burre, do you know how many litres of water consume the production of a ton of lithium? Two billion liters of water! I'm taking the battery of a Tesla that contains 15 kilos of lithium. To produce 66 Tesla, we pollute two billion litres of water, just to extract lithium. Then there is also the extraction of aluminum, rare earths that also cause serious pollution of soil and water. According to the European Environment Agency, the consequences for soil and water pollution are doubled or even tripled with electric cars. It's not just pollution. There is also the fact that with the mass production of electric cars, there is going to be an increasing demand for the rare metals I have cited – cobalt, lithium, manganese. It's going to explode. Their supply will become extremely sensitive, with the risk of destabilization or war in some parts of the world. A case has already arisen. The coup that took place in Bolivia at the end of 2019 was part of an attempt by the United States to get hold of Bolivia's lithium reserves. This already exists and will worsen in the future. In conclusion, the alternative we are presenting to the PTB is not to punish motorists, but to offer them, positively, a credible alternative in terms of numerous and cheaper, even free, public transport, as is the case in Luxembourg. On the other hand, it consists of phasing out the system of company cars – this huge gift to the bosses, which we count in billions of euros – without loss of income for the workers and thus increasing the gross wage so that the worker receives in net his equivalent.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip138x.u51	Mr President, it is clear that a debate on commercial cars is accompanied by great emotions. Another subject that also involves great emotions is football. I'd like to start with that. A well-known footballer once said, "Every disadvantage has its advantage." Football fans know I'm talking about Johan Cruijff. I'm gonna cut to the chase. It is an objective disadvantage that there are 700,000 commercial cars in our country, which make many more kilometres than ordinary cars in private possession. So they also emit much more and are very often in money- and time-consuming traffic jams. However, it is an advantage that the composition of that huge fleet of 700,000 commercial vehicles is strongly controlled by the conditions of the tax advantage attached to it. I therefore think it is very clever of the government to use this fiscal lever to release the huge fleet of commercial vehicles in the short term. This fleet accounts for 2.8 million tonnes of CO2 emissions or 20% of the total CO2 emissions from the fleet in our country. The fleet of commercial vehicles, which we will be greening in the short term, is also the main source of supply for the second-hand market in our country. In other words, tomorrow's emission-free company car is the emission-free private car the day after tomorrow. It is not only smart to use the tax lever fully for greening, it is also necessary. We don't have many other choices. We have committed ourselves to strong efforts in the climate and to results commitments, and we may have to make a serious effort at the end of the conference that is now taking place in Glasgow. I assume that since the terrible floods in Wallonia this summer, everyone now recognises that we are not immune to the effects of climate change. This measure will allow us to substantially reduce our greenhouse gas emissions in the short term. With a time-delaying tax advantage and an increasing RSZ contribution, including for emission-free cars, it is ensured that the huge shift towards emission-free cars does not break a hole in the state treasury. Since we cannot predict this evolution to the decimal point, we will, of course, continue to monitor it, with a thorough evaluation in 2026, as requested by the social partners. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to emphasise two more things. What we are doing here is accelerating evolution, an irreversible evolution that is already going on, not only with us, but throughout Europe. I welcome the fact that we are tackling this and that we are getting a grip on it by proactively adapting our fiscal regime so that we can take maximum advantage of emission reductions here. These advantages also exist in the macro-economic field, namely the promotion of investment in green mobility, not only in cars, but also in publicly available charging infrastructure, in charging stations and in electrification of our freight sector. There are also measures in the draft. This is also an important pillar of economic growth. If this movement is made all over Europe, then we should also jump on that cart and reap the economic benefits of it. I am amazed at some of the statements made by those who are, after all, self-explained believers in innovation and progress, statements that have been made with only reason not to participate in that evolution, in order to ignore them. That will not work, we will have to go along with the electrification of our mobility and then I choose to have it in my own hands. This is a measure with direct and significant benefits in terms of greenhouse gas emissions and indirect profits for sustainable economic growth, which is also designed to eliminate budgetary shocks and allow for adjustments through continuous monitoring and in-depth evaluation. There is also an important part attached to that bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip138x.u52	Mr Vandenbroucke, I am particularly encouraged by the euphemism you are using that there will be no major budgetary shocks. That's right. It is indeed a major plus operation for the state treasury, because your name and party colleague, Minister Vandenbroucke, estimates a doubling of the social contributions for these commercial vehicles between mid-2020 and 2026. The debate is not whether to green the fleet, but whether to do so in a good, thought-out and sensible way. We disagree, because what you are doing now is putting a lot of people at risk because they cannot escape those additional social contributions that will have to be paid in time. The budgets for the commercial vehicles are not calculated today on the much more expensive electric cars. We want to be honest, it is not to be expected that electric cars will be cheap in a year and a half. We should not try to tell each other that. This way you will ensure that a number of people, who do not have a driveway or garage for example, will in many cases not be able to charge their car. You may notice that they can go to collective facilities, but I just learned that Fastned, where cars can be charged very quickly, will increase its rates by just a little bit of 17% from tomorrow, which is not from the cat. So you put a lot of people, who cannot afford it, before the block by the way in which greening is addressed in the bill. That is what our criticism is about. After all, what remains is a greening tailored to the villas and no more than that. I don't understand why you can support that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip138x.u53	Mr Anseuw, Minister Van Peteghem has already replied to a number of elements which you are now putting forward again. You exaggerate the shock effect of the evolution that is effective in social contributions and the reduction of the tax advantage. After all, you place that much earlier in time than in reality is the case. Secondly, I have read the reports of the Committee on Social Affairs. I admit that I am not a specialist in the financing of social security. However, Minister Vandenbroucke and Minister Van Peteghem presented a similar story on the taxation aspect. They argued that the reform was budgetaryly neutral in the long term and that the intervention in the social contributions should ensure that the financing of our social security was guaranteed on that side. A shift to a more sustainable park can make a hole in the state treasury. We must avoid that. I have also read that the increase in the minimum contribution will be a lot lower for those who are effectively switching to an emission-free car. That is, of course, exactly the intention of the draft law. Moreover, the measure does not apply from 2022 or 2023 but only from 2025. That's exactly the point. I don't have a glass ball to predict exactly how things will evolve. You don't have one either, and neither does the government. However, I know that the evolution that is already taking place has budgetary effects. We are trying to accelerate this development and it is therefore normal to ensure that it is done in a budget neutral way. In fact, your group has insisted on this. The second reading of the draft was based on a debate on whether or not the story is financed and budgetaryly neutral. Minister Van Peteghem has openly stated what data we have and what not, what projections can be made and how specific they are. There will be a permanent monitoring and a clear evaluation in 2026. It is not the intention to rush people suddenly at costs, but it is the intention to bring about a change in behaviour. I understand you support that change of behavior.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip138x.u54	Mr Vandenbroucke, let me make a factual correction. You must distinguish between the tax impact and the impact on social contributions. You said the same thing in your speech as Mr Vandenbroucke said in the Committee on Social Affairs. It's not supposed to raise more money. I asked at that time if the Minister could tell me what more or less revenue this bill will give me. He's made the bill very detailed, year by year. This shows that revenues increase by 98 %. That is almost a doubling of social contributions. In concrete terms, this amounts to hundreds of millions of euros in the period before 2026, not from 2026. When it comes to social security, it is true that a lot more money is being knocked out of people's pockets. That's what he said, I didn't mean to, but it's a fluke. He's always very honest in the answers he gives, and I appreciate that. However, you should not come here and tell us the opposite. You must make a distinction between the tax regime, which Mr Donné mentioned, and the social contributions. That is what we are talking about in terms of an increase of EUR 0.5 billion. That's not negative. Those are the facts, I don't find out. That is what Minister Vandenbroucke said in the Committee on Social Affairs. You will have a brief impact on the report of the committee meeting. You have to reflect the facts correctly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip138x.u55	Just a little more detail. Mr Vandenbroucke, you say that this will only be felt in taxation from 2025. That's not entirely correct. For people who purchase a car from the middle of 2023 it becomes more expensive. I know there's a phasering that won't be felt until 2025, but it's already palpable for people who have to make a choice in 2023, a choice that won't be there yet. That's the problem. Therefore 2023 is too early, because that choice must then be made, not in 2025. We discussed budgetary neutrality in committee. It has clearly been admitted that there are very few figures available and that there is a very voluntaristic approach here. We have to admit that. We simply do not yet know whether it will be budget neutral or not. So don't bring that up now.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip138x.u56	The government does not have a glass ball, but you do not have a glass ball, Mr Donné. Mr Van Peteghem has made it very clear what data we have and what data we do not have. This is indeed about projections, assumptions. How quickly the change of behavior will occur, no one here can predict. However, the commitment has been made to monitor this on a permanent basis, to intervene whenever necessary and to carry out a thorough evaluation in 2026. Colleagues of the N-VA, we are faced with the choice of whether we want to accelerate or not the evolution, which we regard as positive and necessary, in the light of, among other things, the commitment we make to emission reductions, which is fundamental to the transport sector. It is our choice to do so and not to sit down, with arguments that are neither based on tables in which one can predict up to the last figure what their impact is on taxation and RSZ revenues and whether they will change people's behaviour or not. Furthermore, we must not lose sight of the important part of the draft law relating to the mobility budget. We have to get rid of the automatic allocation of a pay car or not. There's got to be a choice. The choice should not only relate to the price of the electric car; it should also be possible to choose between pay-cars or not, other sustainable modes of movement, such as public transport and shared mobility, or the combination with a pay-car. We are now making this instrument more flexible, more employable, with strengthened anti-abuse provisions. The latter is very important and requested by, among other things, the National Labour Council. That too is a lever to make our mobility more sustainable, which we must take into account in our debate. The opposition on the left, the Labour Party, is opposed to what the environmental movement calls the most significant climate measure of recent times. Allow me to take a look at your arguments, colleagues Van Hees and Vindevoghel. You claim in all seriousness that electrification of 700,000 cars, representing 20% of CO2 emissions in the country, will ultimately not lead to a reduction in CO2 emissions, as car manufacturers will sell more electric cars here, as opposed to more diesel and petrol cars elsewhere in Europe. You just mentioned the polluting production of lithium and batteries. What world do you live in? The car manufacturers are all to electrify their models as fast as possible. They want to offer electric cars everywhere in Europe as soon as possible, not just here. Moreover, have you heard about the European rules on batteries which are in the process of making battery production more sustainable? Obligations on the recycling of battery components will be imposed, in order to avoid that production remains environmentally unfriendly. By the way, isn't the production of oil polluting? What fuel will the future PVDA cars run on? I find your plea against electric cars quite astonishing. How will you explain your opposition to the workers of the Audi factory in Brussels and the Volvo factory in Ghent? If those factories are still there, it is because they are able to produce high-tech new products, battery-powered cars. The Volvo factory in Ghent is the only factory in the entire car group capable of building a fully electric model. Thanks to the fact that this plant succeeds and can also produce solidly, it is even looking for additional workers. Several car models will follow. Today we received the news that an additional model will also be assigned to the Audifabriek in Brussels. Will you explain to those thousands of workers that you see no future in the companies where they work? The electrification innovation is just an anchoring of industrial jobs in our country. It bewilders me that PVDA looks away from that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip138x.u57	I think you're mixing two things. We're talking about company cars here. Our company car system has long been denounced, I think, by the left in this country. Today, instead of finding an alternative to these company cars, we are actually putting this system in place to produce even more company cars. The question is this: we must offer a valid alternative in terms of public transport, so that for example Van Hool can produce more buses. You can't just have the car as a horizon. As I said, the idea is not to punish motorists or to remove all cars, and no one can have any more. The idea is that for some common journeys where public transport can be an alternative to the car, for example, typically home-to-work travel, there is, where possible, an alternative to public transport. It's a pretty basic, elementary concept. Here, the coalition says that rather than questioning the company car, which in addition is a huge tax gift of 3 billion a year to the boss, it will simply change the company cars. They were carbon, they're going to become electric. I am not saying that the evolution of cars, from carbon to electricity is in itself a bad thing, but here we are discussing a bill on company cars, and we are not questioning the very notion of the tax advantage of company cars. On the part of the left-wing parties, it simply surprises me and I can only repeat it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip138x.u58	You said that earlier. I now turn the floor to Mr Vandenbroucke.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip138x.u59	Let's get back to that point. You have made a passionate plea here and in committee against the production of electric cars, because the batteries are supposedly extremely polluting. That's what you said. You are now talking about more buses and more trains. I am also a warm supporter of more collective transport solutions. In any case, the car will continue to be part of our mobility mix. I would rather be talking about electric cars built in Brussels and Ghent than being produced elsewhere. That's the point I want to make. The band in Ghent and Brussels not only run payroll cars and future commercial vehicles, but cars for everyone, also for individuals who will continue to buy cars in the future. You continue to deny that reality. We have noted: the PVDA considers the electrification of our fleet to be a sort of conspiracy at European level, a lobby for which we go flat on the belly. We are choosing the future of car factories in our country, and that is a good thing for me. I come to your next argument, namely that the bill anchors the tax niche for the phenomenon of pay-car. Have you read the coalition agreement? That is what one can expect from an opposition party, not one. It says literally that alternative wage forms, including in the form of salary wagons, must be extinguished. In the future, we want to pay people in euros instead of cars. For the record, all government partners are behind that. Only this draft law is not about that. It is not the start of the great fiscal reform, that is correct. This only adjusts the parameters of the tax benefit of the salary car. You have already asked the Minister of Peteghem in committee and you have to keep repeating that question, but you should also listen when you get answers to your questions. No one, not even Minister Van Peteghem, says that the niche of salary cars is by definition anchored until 2031 and later. The draft law aims to ensure that, as long as they are there, they are as green as possible. Since there are 700,000, representing 20% of CO2 emissions from the total fleet, it is a good thing that we can achieve this in the short term through the draft law. In other words, your criticism of that point is totally beside the issue. Apart from CO2 emissions, there is another direct positive impact on greening of 700,000 payroll cars, and later on on the second-hand market. It is fundamental - and Mr Van Besien has mentioned it very briefly - that is air quality. Mr Van Hees, from the exhaust pipe of a car comes not only CO2 but also nitrogen and soot. Nitrogen and soot are toxic to humans. Your party always says that it is concerned with the environment. Now, you need to consider the impact of the soot and nitrogen emissions from car traffic in our cities and how these emissions directly affect people's health in which neighbourhoods. There, soot concentrations are measured in the bodies of children that are 10 to 20 times higher than elsewhere in our country. I'm talking neighborhoods, street canyons, big highways. Who lives there, Mr. Van Hees? That's where the people you claim to be defending live. We will ensure that the air quality of these townspeople will be significantly improved in the short term, while we will also invest in additional collective transport solutions. If we are talking about your favourite subjects, and that is obviously not the environment and CO2 emissions, then I will say something about the tax niches of the pay-cars. What is the view of the Labour Party on this? For Forward and Government, it is very clear: we are in favour of rewarding workers in euros rather than cars. In line with the passage on the tax reform in the government agreement, taxes on labour will decrease so that this alternative wage form of the salary car can be extinguished. But that car's a paycheck. That's what they worked for. The people who drive it deserved it. You always sell it as a tax gift to employers. But it's part of the employees' salary. Mr Vindevoghel warned quite literally at first reading that the system of wages could not be abolished simply because it would lead to an unacceptable loss of wages. At the same time, it called for all the money from the tax advantage to be invested in public transport. But the same euro cannot be spent twice. The rescue came from you, Mr Van Hees, with a remark at second reading. I quote from the report: 'Mr Marco Van Hees points out that it is up to the employers to adjust the difference between gross and net wages in the context of the abolition of the system of commercial vehicles, so that the resources released can be used to create a performing public transport system'. Mr Van Hees, what world do you live in now? Do you really believe that employers will suddenly increase gross wages by 20% if you abolish the tax advantage? That's what you're suggesting. For example, you are advocating a substantial increase in taxes. One should do so as a left-wing party on income which is already among the most taxed in our country. I'd argue the opposite. In other words, you have played the familiar all-or-nothing game here again. You say that the PVDA cannot support the design, because the CO2 reduction is not large enough, the congestion is not solved by it, the salary wagons are not abolished by it and public transport will not be a perfect alternative for all cars that are currently driving around. In committee, you added that transport poverty is not addressed either. You have the guts to blame us all, but where are your amendments? I haven't seen your proposals, as usual.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip138x.u60	I have the impression that this is a debate between the two of you and that we are talking more about Mr. Van Hees is all about the project!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip138x.u61	Mr President, I would like to say to Mr Vandenbroucke that his logic is based on what the employer wants. This government endorsed the wage freeze through the Royal Decree of Minister Dermagne. You're blocking salaries and you're offering only those kinds of tax niches that are actually gifts to the bosses. What the employer does not pay for social security and public services is the indirect wages of workers. This kind of tax niche is a wage theft, it is social security contributions and taxes that return indirectly to workers. It will be said that social security has funding problems, but it is because there are billions of reductions in social contributions offered to employers, especially via company cars. You are in this logic of giving gifts to the bosses, you do not question them. You're blocking salaries and keeping that $3 billion a year gift to the bosses. That's your vision, but for me, it's not a left-wing vision.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip138x.u62	Mr Van Hees, you surprise me. In fact, a few months ago, we had the discussion about wage increases. What you are suggesting is that you then argued that wages should rise more than 0.4% on top of indexation to compensate for the abolition of commercial vehicles. That's news to me. You didn't say that at the time. You are now saying that the increase in wages is being blocked and that we are therefore maintaining the system of commercial vehicles. This implies that you saw this as compensation for the company cars. I did not see that proposal at the time, and you did not say it at the time. I am therefore surprised by your statement.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip138x.u63	I think I have made it clear why my group is in favour of this bill. I won't repeat what's in it. Members of the majority have already done so. I thought the essence of the debate was to respond to each other's arguments. I have indeed chosen to refute the arguments which Mr Van Hees keeps repeating and which are either beside the issue or are totally incorrect. I see that he perseveres in the anger and continues to rub our points of view which we have not taken at all, but does not address the inconsistencies of his own arguments to which I refer. The left-wing part of the opposition is therefore, as usual, complaining to the sidelines, giving no alternative and then getting angry when we address them. What is clear, and that concludes me, is the position of the Forward Group on this bill. We fully support this draft. It has an immediate positive impact on CO2 emissions, which is needed, and on the health of many people, and gives additional scope to the growth potential that our group believes is certainly still present in the Belgian economy to further invest in innovation, such as the electrification of our mobility.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip138x.u64	Ladies and gentlemen, for your information, the remaining speakers are Mrs Matz, Mr. De Smet, Mr. Anseew and Mr. Vanden Burre. The Minister's response will follow. The Speaker told me that we would interrupt the sitting after the end of the debate on this bill, but I have the impression that you are going to go from continuity to urgent oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip138x.u65	Mr President, be assured, I won't be very long. I have had an extensive opportunity in committee to make our various arguments in relation to this text. I would like to remind you very quickly of a few points that continue to be raised. I've been listening to the discussions since this morning. We feel, in relation to this text, that you are in front of a beautiful display of food more succulent than each other. You're extremely attracted to this window, and you really want to come in and buy a few pieces. But when you come in, in fact, they say to you, "Oh, no, this one, there's no more! Attention, this food contains a lot of sugar and a lot of fat! Be careful, you can't buy ten pieces but you have to buy more packaging!" Through this metaphor of the well-stocked window, I mean, this bill seems to us to be sustainable on principle. We want to support this principle that you want to put in place. But on the practical modalities, there are still questions - we have seen this through the discussion. There are political positions, but I am not talking about political positions here. I'm talking about questioning about technical issues. I know that at second reading you have come to explain to us how you were thinking of achieving budgetary neutrality. We know that this remains fragile, in terms of the numbers you produce. This is a very challenging budgetary aspect. This afternoon, through topical issues, colleagues will of course come back to this issue. Basically, is a greening of corporate vehicles bill really a greening? Account must be taken of the fact that electricity production must take place in particular via gas-fired power plants. The question of nuclear power arises. Everyone would obviously want to get rid of it, but we must have credible alternatives that do not increase our CO2 emissions; the question of electricity production arises. I have heard, of course, some colleagues in the majority raising the same questions. Is this really a greening project? In fact, electricity must be produced in a certain way, and depending on the choices that the government is making, we can immediately contradict the very principle of the project, or, conversely, say that we are going to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions. This remains a fundamental issue. It is known that the government does not seem to be very coordinated or very united on the issue of nuclear exit and alternatives. The extremely recent news shows us again this morning that things seem very complicated. This is the first question and it is not anomalous when we are talking about a greening project. I know that this does not concern the Minister of Finance as such, but he is, of course, on behalf of the government, defending a project that seems to be in contradiction with other principles for which the government seems somewhat hesitant or at least not connected with them. The second major problem raised by this text is, of course, that of electricity distribution networks. This refers to the federated entities and I take this opportunity to stress the essential coordination that you need to put in place urgently with the other entities. I have stressed this on many occasions during the committee. While the federal government has jurisdiction over procurement and transportation, the country's regional governments have jurisdiction over distribution. We can only question ourselves: are the distribution networks in the north, the centre and the south of the country ready to achieve the objectives pursued by this bill, particularly in terms of the development of terminals and electric cars? We are dubious in this regard. The overall assessment of the scheme you planned in 2026 seems to us to be very far from the objectives, as they depend on the federated entities. Nevertheless, you cannot say: "After me, flies! I'll take care of my project. My window is so beautiful that everyone wants to enter the store to enjoy themselves, but we lack ammunition." If, in his speech, the text appears as a voluntarist, I would tend to see it as a partial pastor. In committee, I have had the opportunity to ask you about hybrid vehicles, because no tax distinction is made between true and false vehicles. No incentives are provided for according to their nature. This gives me even more grain to grind as to your intention to build a beautiful window, behind which no distinction can be made between the products. We know that company cars acquired from 1 January 2023 will only benefit from a tax deductibility of the cost of gasoline or diesel limited to 50%, without any distinction between these vehicles. Second, it is also known that the federal government and the federated entities are working on the retrofit. For us, this is extremely important. As a reminder, the retrofit is to replace a car's thermal motor with a rechargeable hydrogen or gas battery. It makes it possible to extend the life of the chassis. This is therefore more than beneficial because not only are we working on the climate in terms of CO2 emissions, but we also do not reproduce new vehicles. As discussed in committee, I wonder whether the tax administration is currently sufficiently equipped to control vehicles that would have been modified. This question has remained relatively unanswered. Similarly, should there not be an increased tax deductibility for these retro-fit vehicles, since they are doubly beneficial to the climate? These are the major questions on which I spoke in committee and on which I still have questions at the moment, not because I am in opposition, but because they have not received answers. These are technical issues, but we support the principle. For all these reasons and because I have not had any appeasement on this text, we will abstain from the aspects of it, because of the absence of essential workings on this text, so that it represents more than a simple fine window or a beautiful slogan and that it is actually beneficial for the climate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip138x.u66	Mr President, what a splendid opportunity this reform of company cars has missed! This is a missed opportunity first because the advantageous taxation of corporate vehicles results in a considerable loss of profits for state funds. According to the figures of the European Commission, we are talking about no less than EUR 3.75 billion which so flies each year. In the midst of a health and economic crisis, one could have imagined that the State would find another use of this money. This is a missed opportunity because, when the Belgian State sets up or decides to maintain a tax and social system advantageous for company wage vehicles, it favours the use of the car as a mode of transport with, as a counterpart, all the nuisances it generates. These include traffic jams, impacts of infrastructure on natural environments, noise and environmental nuisances, etc. Although, as everyone else I believe, we fully share the objective of reducing CO2 emissions from vehicles, whether private or professional, it can only be seen that this reform is missing the shift towards a new alternative and sustainable mobility. For Défi, by maintaining the current advantageous corporate car system, the government continues to subsidize the use of the vehicle as a primary mode of transportation. While it is true that corporate vehicles will tend to be carbon neutral, the constant traffic congestion in our large cities will continue to persist. The Council of State stated in its opinion that: "The preliminary draft does not contain a quantitative analysis of the extent to which the progressive measures planned will contribute to the achievement of European and national CO2 emission reduction objectives. It is therefore up to the government to quantify with sufficient precision the impact of the measures on overall CO2 emissions." It can be added that, in order to estimate in a fair way a possible eventual reduction in CO2, the pollution from future power plants would have to be integrated with the gas that will necessarily be used to replace nuclear power, if the government confirms the exit in 2025. In other words, thanks to this Vivaldi government, we risk finding ourselves with electric cars whose electricity will be produced among other things by CO2-emitting power plants. "Nothing is lost, nothing is created, everything is transformed," said Lavoisier. This also applies visibly to carbon and traffic jams under Vivaldi. This proposed reform is therefore limited to replacing the traffic jams of petrol and diesel vehicles with the traffic jams of electric vehicles. With the end of nuclear power in 2025 and the increasing number of electric vehicles, the citizen is legitimately entitled to ask himself the question of security of supply. Furthermore, on budgetary aspects, the Minister of Finance indicated in committee that this reform would be fiscally neutral. However, my group can only question the decline in excise revenues on fossil fuels. How will this loss of profits be compensated by the government? It was stated by the Minister that the reform should bring in more than EUR 516 million until 2030, thanks in particular to the saving of emission credits or the sale of excess emission credits. When we know that every year, all the excise duties on fuel pay more than EUR 6 billion, it is easy to see that the greening of the car fleet, whether private or corporate, will not be budget neutral. Finally, we question the reasons for this great acceleration of the greening of company cars now. Since the beginning of the legislature, Parliament has been waiting for a major tax reform promised by the government. The tax burden on labour income in our country is such that successive governments have been forced to predict tax niches historically in order to mitigate their effects. A real fiscal shift is therefore more than necessary. It is precisely within the framework of this great reform that the removal of the benefit of wage-cars and other tax niches for the taxation of natural persons could have been discussed. In conclusion, with this reform, the parties rather to the right of Vivaldi can be very satisfied. The tax and social advantage of company cars still has good days. On the other hand, it is objectively a defeat for our green and green friends that can be described as losers with the maintenance of the tax advantage of corporate cars. For if it is true that politics is made of compromise, I find that we push the plug a little far. If one adds to this the impossibility of achieving – even if it is not their fault – an intrabelgian climate agreement and the potential arrival of several gas plants, the arrival of green bottlings is beginning to weigh heavily on the ecological balance of this coalition. Mr President, as you will understand, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we will not be able to participate in the encouragement and additional subsidization of the electrical traffic that you promise us after 2025. We will therefore vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip138x.u67	Mr De Smet, thank you for this brief and very comprehensive statement. It is brevity, which is sometimes rare in this assembly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip138x.u68	Mr President, I would like to reply to some of the opposition colleagues about one or the other element they have put forward. I will try to be brief, but these are fundamental points. First of all, the colleagues who have spoken and, in any case, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Van Hees and De Smet did not at any time refer to the 9,000 people a year who die prematurely in Belgium because of poor air quality. For environmentalists, however, this is a fundamental argument that pushes us to support this bill. That is, in our view, a reason enough to have a constructive assessment of this text and not to sweep it with a back of the hand. Today, Brussels and Antwerp are among the top 10 cities with the worst air quality in Europe, Antwerp is in third place and Brussels is in eighth place. In Brussels, where I live, for which reason I feel all the more concerned, there are 530 premature deaths a year. Is this a detail, ladies and gentlemen? I have not heard a word about this, but this is the main reason why environmentalists support this text. We must improve the quality of air and therefore of life of our fellow citizens, especially in areas where there is a lot of traffic, i.e. in the city, but not only. This is a fundamental question. I therefore very much regret that I did not hear anything about this in the various speeches.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip138x.u69	Mr Vanden Burre, you are from Brussels and I know that you are driving a modest car. I've seen you park.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip138x.u70	I haven't got a car in two months.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip138x.u71	Mr President, Mr Vanden Burre is indeed very consistent. The aim of Ecolo/Green is to ensure that there are as few cars as possible in the Brussels Region in the future. About Mr Vandenbroucke and the Audifabriek. I looked up the Audi e-tron. Departure price in the catalogue: 82,000 euros. What exactly are you defending here? That in Brussels in x number of years only people who can afford to drive around? Is that it?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip138x.u72	In peace and quiet. I know this is an awfully expensive car. I wouldn't be able to afford it myself either, but Mr Ravyts, I prefer it to be built in Brussels, rather than elsewhere. You know well enough that it doesn't end there. All the major car manufacturers have announced that they want to put affordable electric cars on the market in the coming years, because the market is asking for them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip138x.u73	Mr President, I would like to respond quickly to Mr Ravyts. I am convinced – and I am in the line that Mr Vandenbroucke has just defended – that we will still need cars in the future. I also support the production of cars that are more part of sustainable development in Brussels in particular but also in Ghent. On the other hand, I am convinced that having a car that you own individually will fundamentally change, especially in the city. That's the choice I made. I continue to use cars but shared. I encourage everyone to try this system that works very well. So it's very different and very nuanced compared to the cartoons you can do. I think we'll still use cars, but I'm sure we'll share them instead of being the only owners. The parenthesis is closed. I wanted to touch on two more points. The first point is the quality of the air that I've been talking about and which is fundamental to us, you will understand. The second point concerns the things that still need to be improved in relation to this pay-car system. At the level of Ecolo-Groen, we are extremely clear, we need to go further. That is very clear both in our agenda and, in part, in the government agreement. It is necessary to pay workers in euros, prefer payment in euros against any other form of remuneration. So we have to get out of this pay-car system at the end of the day. It's Ecolo-Groen's program. I fully assume it. Here, this is a first step that we welcome because air quality will fundamentally improve. Last but not least, I wanted to reply to the MR colleague who was talking earlier about security of supply. I wanted to answer by reading an analysis and reflection of the former Minister of Energy under the previous government. This is Marie-Christine Marghem, whose interview I read in De Standaard in June 2020: "If there is no support mechanism with new power plants with electric gas, it will be inevitable to extend the opening of nuclear power plants and this is clearly playing with fire". I fully subscribe to the words of this former Minister of Energy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip138x.u74	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for this very interesting debate. I would very much like to return to the statement of William Todd, who said that this is the most important climate change measure taken in this country in the last year. I believe that for this reason we should be particularly proud of what is going on today. It's not a proposal that just falls out of the sky. It is a very well thought-out proposal, which not only looks at the greening of commercial vehicles, but also provides an incentive for the charging pole infrastructure and which, in addition to the mobility budget, also ensures that the thresholds are removed from the system. We are taking a well-thought-out package of measures to ensure that our mobility becomes more sustainable and that it enables us to achieve our intended climate action. Just now, Mr Donné said that the figures do not say much. If this measure is implemented in this way, it will save 2.8 million tonnes of CO2 per year. That may not say much, but that is a very significant contribution to our climate objectives, not to mention the reduction of air pollution, the impact on our health, and so on. What is important in the process of conversion is not only what we set out as an objective, but also how we do it. In order to achieve the transition, we must ensure that everyone is involved in this transition, not only in this proposal but also in the next proposals that we will make. It is important that there is a certain predictability, that there is a certain predictability in what we are proposing, and that there is also a certainty as to how we support these proposals. There must therefore be a legal framework for people, for businesses and for consumers. What we are proposing today in this draft law provides that framework. That's foreseeable. That's predictable. That gives support to those who need it. The phasering of what we do makes that clear. Today we are not breaking into existing contracts with that phasing. We say that this proposal starts from 1 July 2023. That's the start date. From then on, what we decide here today will have impact. This gives a direction and a framework to the many businesses and consumers in our country. From 1 January 2026, a company car can only be CO2 neutral. It'll give you that tax advantage. This framework that we have established provides certainty, but it is also a signal to society that indicates a direction. Anyone who doubted two years ago which company car he or she had to buy, a hybrid or one on diesel, or why not an electric, we are now giving a very clear direction. It is better to buy an electric or CO2 neutral car. This guides our companies, guides the investments the leasing companies have to make, but it also guides our consumers. We're giving direction, but we're not obliging anyone. Whoever wants can still take a company car that runs on diesel or gasoline. You can still do that. However, we are not in favour of it, because the tax advantage disappears. We are giving direction to our society on this point. As a whole, we are optimistic. I have heard a great deal of pessimism here today about what is possible. Where were we five years ago, though? What kind of cars were sold five years ago? What evolution has this been going through over the years? Then you can be sure that within five years we will be at least as far ahead as we are today. There will also be a long way to go in this area. It has been stated here several times that every manufacturer wants to market electric cars today. Audi told us today about the Q8 that will be produced in Brussels. This is about employment, but it is also about growth. Each manufacturer announces that there will be more electric models on the market. Test Purchase reported a few weeks ago that from 2025 the electric models will be cheaper than the fossil cars. Today the second-hand electric cars that are the same age, in a similar model, especially in the total cost of ownership, are already cheaper than the fossil variant. So we're making that transition possible today. We do this, for example, by providing tax support for the development of our charging pole infrastructure. For those who doubt whether this infrastructure will exist, I note that incentives are being given at the local, regional and federal levels to achieve this in the coming years. That's important. We are all making an effort in this area. It will of course also be an en-en-story. One will have to be able to charge at home or in the car park of the company or in the public space. Colleagues, I am very proud of this bill. I hope that this will be adopted by the greatest possible majority this evening. I would like to thank everyone who has worked on this in the past few weeks and months. We have based ourselves on the proposals made by Mr Vanbesien, Mr Van den Bergh and Mr Lachaert. We also received a great deal of support in Parliament. This is a good thing because this measure is important. I also thank the employees, Sander Wouters and Thomas Roelandt, who put a lot of time into this. I would also like to thank the administration which has sent us a very detailed proposal. Thank you all for your support. Today, we are taking an important step towards achieving our climate objectives, making the air cleaner and focusing on our health.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip138x.u75	Minister, apart from the general story that has been widely heard, I have had little substantive response to the many concerns raised in the hours of debate. You say you're sending a signal to society. Yes, you do. At the same time, you are referring to pessimism. I do not want to call it pessimism, but rather concern. This concern is also about the prices of electric cars. In the past period I have done my homework and researched which cars the car manufacturers are now offering and which they will put on the market in the future. Now, if you want a car with something or some decent driving range, you have to look at the A-brands these days. The BMW i4 costs 60,000 to 70,000 euros, the BMW iX costs 80,000 euros. The Polestar, a Volvo Group vehicle, would originally be produced in Ghent, but is currently manufactured in China. The Polestar 2 costs 60,000 euros. A Tesla soon sits around 60,000 euros and then one has only bought the cheapest model. With all due respect, be realistic. From signals I am receiving, I can conclude that leasing companies are fully anticipating the legislation that will be adopted here today. These companies are already placing lots of orders.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip138x.u76	Mr Van Lommel, you did not get the floor to open a new debate, but to reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip138x.u77	Mr President, I do want to replicate, and I will be brief. What worries me is the high residual value the leasing companies hold for those cars. Then I come to your argument, Minister. You say that the cars will be resold to private individuals. On average, a private individual spends 18,000 euros on a car today. If the residual value of the leasing companies is very high, then after four years, individuals will not be able to buy a car of EUR 18,000. They're gonna have to put down 30,000 euros for a car that's been driving around for four years. And as far as employment is concerned, you have to look at the picture as a whole. In the last few weeks, pump holders have been pulling the alarm bell. What about their future? I don't know about that and I don't read anything about it. So, look at the total picture.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip138x.u78	Mr Vanbesien, you will have the floor, just for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip138x.u79	Mr President, I would like to correct what Mr Van Lommel has said here. I have been driving an electric family car for two years with a decent range, but its price is not close to what you say, Mr Van Lommel. Moreover, I bought it two years ago and the prices are still going down. You have finished all car manufacturers to ask you about models on the market and models that are coming. Have you spoken to the leasing companies? You say that the residual value of electric cars is expected to be higher than today for fossil cars, but the leasing companies know that too and anticipate that. They have developed new business models that they intend to use to get the second-hand electric commercial vehicles on the Belgian market. They are convinced that they have business models in which they are sold. So I would advise you to look a little further than just what fits into your stall.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip138x.u80	Mr Vanbesien, today you have very little knowledge of the case, just as you were speaking in the Chamber and now again. One does not need to be a major economist to see that when leasing companies have very high residual values for electric commercial vehicles and they later end up on the second-hand market, the private individual will still have to pay it. (Protests from Mr Vanbesien) I'll talk to the sector, absolutely. Do you really think I'm not talking to the sector? I know very well what the story is about, and apparently much better than you are, and you are telling people vesicles today, and the ordinary Fleming will have to pay for your climate fetishism. (Conversation on the banks) The President: Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip138x.u81	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2170/8) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2170/8) The bill has 40 articles. The draft law has 40 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip138x.u82	• 1 – Joy Donné (2170/9)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip138x.u83	• 2 – Joy Donné (2170/9)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip138x.u84	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled, the articles that have been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Wednesday, November 10, at 2:15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting on Wednesday 10 November at 2.15 p.m.
