ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic573x.u1	Minister, welcome to present your federal disability action plan for the next three or four years. We'll give you some time to do that. Secondly, I propose that colleagues should be able to speak in order of importance for their respective groups. Given the magnitude of this plan, I assume there will be many comments. Nevertheless, we know that the dynamics are better if we can bring together the interventions. So I'll tell you the number of minutes that have passed without it being an injunction, but information. In this way, we will maintain a dynamic debate. If everyone can finish in ten minutes, it's perfect. However, I do not wish to undermine the proposals, all of which are interesting and necessary for the debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic573x.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to be able to present the Federal Disability Action Plan to you today. It would appear that this is the first time a minister has presented a federal Handicap plan in these walls. It's an honor to be the initiator. At the beginning of this plan, I announced my willingness to present it to you. I am here before you and I am proud of the work done by the teams, my administration and all members of the government and federal governments. This collaboration has been a great success. The 145 measures included in the report are evidence of this. The aim of this plan is to encourage us to make lasting changes in the way disability is understood in our society. A few months ago, you had the right of persons with disabilities to full inclusion in our society and reasonable accommodation included in the Constitution, according to the wishes of Parliament after a long fight. Through this plan, I tend to respond to this fundamental right. A right enshrined in a Constitution is good, but it must find its application in society. We therefore take on the responsibilities of a federal government to build a more inclusive and equitable society for people with disabilities. Indeed, this plan must encourage all of us to make lasting changes in our approach to disability. With the plan we want to change the existing paradigms and reverse the reasoning. I am convinced, like the government, that it is not the people with disabilities who need to adapt and make efforts to participate actively in our society. On the contrary, it is up to us and our society to adapt and take into account all citizens, including people with disabilities. This inclusion must be achieved in all areas of life: in the private sphere, at work and in public life. A handicap is not a choice. Disability must never be an obstacle to full participation in society. In ten months, we have already accomplished great things. We have removed the "price of love", we have lowered the age of access to the integration allowance and the income replacement allowance, we have significantly increased the income replacement allowance – 22% by 2024. Exceptional support measures were also taken during the Covid crisis. We have also worked to develop this plan, which will allow us to continue to build on this momentum and accelerate the reforms necessary to build together this truly inclusive society that we all want. What about the working method? The objectives I have just mentioned, namely to make our society more inclusive and to remove the obstacles that prevent the participation of people with disabilities, can only be achieved if everyone cooperates. It is our joint responsibility to achieve these objectives. In this sense, raising awareness and drawing up the plan with all members of the government was already a first step in the right direction. The plan is therefore the result of several months of work and consultation with all the ministers and secretaries of state who have each been required to identify concrete measures in their area of competence with their administration. I would like to take this opportunity to thank you for your various parliamentary inquiries because they have also helped to target specific actions in this plan. For example, Mrs Lanjri, you will find here the question of the European Disability Card (EDC) which is often mentioned during the sessions and also the question of the price of work. I'll come back later. We have also been able to count on the support of organizations representing persons with disabilities, such as the National Higher Council for Persons with Disabilities (CSNPH) and Unia. In fact, the Commission has done a considerable amount of work by issuing a high-quality opinion. You will find it on his website – it is thick. Everything is included in the plan, their comments and their opinions. I would also like to highlight the collegial and cross-cutting aspect of the plan. Whether through you, the CSNPH or the networks of public servants, you have all contributed to the development of this plan. Your proposals and suggestions have helped to make this plan proactive and ambitious. This shows that our government is united around these important issues and that it wants to make inclusion a strong marker of its policy. I would also like to stress that this work of collaboration and cooperation will also be carried out this year with the federated entities. Indeed, as you know, the competence of disability is a galaxy of skills totally broken between all levels of power. That is why I intend to work with the federated entities to develop a common vision document for the period 2021-2030, as requested by the United Nations and Europe. We will move forward together and to do so, we will rely on an interdepartmental conference – which has not been held since 2013. Today, we're only going to talk about the 2021-2024 plan, if I may. Anyone who has taken the time to go over the plan, I suppose everyone has been able to see that the work of the last few months has led to results. 145 measures have been proposed, including 46 main measures. Let me be clear. It is not a list of good intentions, but it is a list of very concrete actions in the short, medium and long term. They are therefore concrete actions in the short, medium and long term. It is an action plan containing specific objectives with the formal commitment of Ministers and Secretaries of State. They, like me, like the whole government, will be accountable for the commitments they have made. It's important. The plan is structured around six main axes of the coalition agreement, each with an overview of the situation, the challenges ahead and the measures proposed to achieve them. I assure you, I will not go through the hundred-forty-five measures or all the observations, but you can go back to the various actions. The first axis is that of a solidarity country. This is what is found in the government agreement. The first point we wanted to highlight was crisis management, particularly that of the health crisis. It is impossible not to talk about this crisis, which was ultimately the source of a multitude of teachings. People with disabilities have shown, as we all know, a great deal of courage since the beginning of the crisis. They have faced completely new situations. If you have read Unia's latest reports, you have been able to read a number of complaints, including complaints about people with disabilities, such as deaf and hard of hearing, who were unable to be accompanied to hospitals due to the new Covid rules. It is a flagship measure on which the Ministers of the Interior, the Environment and Public Health will work. It's urgent. Indeed, after the Covid crisis, floods occurred in Wallonia and Flanders and there were unimaginable testimonies from people with disabilities, including hearing impaired people, who were trapped in the waters because they had not been warned by anyone, by text messages or by any other method of warning. This is obviously not acceptable. Here we are shown the importance of clear and intelligible communication for all citizens, including people with disabilities, whether they are hard of hearing, deaf or blind, or have a mental disability. The latter do not have access to information. We will work with Minister Annelies Verlinden and Minister Frank Vandenbroucke to develop crisis communication in a format that is suitable and accessible to all. An adequate standard of living with decent social protection; this is always said and has often been repeated in this committee: people with disabilities are at a higher risk of poverty than other people in the population. We know that today the benefits are below the poverty line, even if we are actually going to increase them. It is also known that there is sometimes discouragement in the head of workers with disabilities, or other things. Of course, the ARR will continue to be upgraded by 2024. As you know, there will be the abolition of the "price of love". You're the one who worked there for long months. There is also the RIS exemption from the amount of the integration allowance. The plan wants to deal significantly with one point: the non-take-up. That is to say, the non-use of rights. If this happens, it is our responsibility, among other things, because it is due to administrative complexity. This will require the development of a plan by DG Disabled Persons to improve services to the population. These are actions that I must take as the responsible minister. For those who know DG Handicapped, the task is arduous, isn't it, Mr Delizée? But it will be necessary. Ensuring inclusive communication vis-à-vis beneficiaries, ensuring that services are adapted to make them more accessible, optimising information flows are the main objectives to limit non-take-up. For example, with the project of DG Disabled Persons, it is intended to reduce the number of appeals by reducing refusals for missing additional information or absence from the medical examination. Today, we refuse for lack of information, for uncompleted files or for failure to attend the medical examination. This represents more than 21% of the refusals today, for example in Charleroi. So this is very significant in relation to the non-take-up. We also want to increase the involvement of municipalities, particularly CPAS, in order to provide better supervision for persons with disabilities, among other things to try to fill out the form and, of course, to simplify the forms. If you have seen DG Han's forms, they are really not understandable to everyone or anyone. They must be made FALC, i.e. easy to read and understand. Finally, the world is changing and changing, and we obviously have another vision of disability today. The disability assessment process needs to be modernized. A multidisciplinary evaluation will make it possible to better take into account all types of disabilities. This will make it possible to assess the loss of autonomy more correctly and to take better account of certain types of handicaps. Today, there are a great deal of complaints about mental disabilities, including the consideration of autism or schizophrenia. Evaluations will be conducted in the presence of a physician supported by social workers and health care professionals. I now come to the public service. People with disabilities are primarily citizens: women and men who want to live in an inclusive society. In recent years there has been a lot of talk about inclusion, but this term is still not being applied. Unlike integration, inclusion presupposes a change in society. The aim of inclusion is to remove all obstacles and give everyone access to information. This basic right can only be guaranteed if society adjusts its habits. Therefore, the specific needs of persons with disabilities will be taken into account in all the overall modernisation plans planned to improve the quality of public services. It's in the government agreement. We'll add the disability dimension. It is our responsibility to propose and guarantee high-quality reception and information mechanisms for all citizens throughout our public services. We have mobilized ad hoc officials throughout our administration. Life in society is also rights to which one can claim. Often announced in press conferences, this access to information must be understandable to all. There will therefore be a generalization of sign language at press conferences. This is a point that the government will not derogate from. The Prime Minister has been particularly sensitive to this issue and this is not going to be easy because the trade of sign language interpreter is a trade in shortage. This means that when I did a press conference and wanted French- and Dutch-speaking interpreters, after five weeks of research, I couldn't find one. There was none free at that time. There is therefore a lot of work on this point. This is a function that is in short supply. Work not only provides income and resources to meet the needs of life, it also offers the opportunity to develop and feel useful and also contributes to the sense of self-esteem and the strengthening of self-esteem. However, people with disabilities still face many obstacles today to being able to participate equally in the labour market. "Equal pay for equal work"! It is a well-known slogan but it is also a cry of distress in the disability sector that denounces the injustices and inconsistencies concerning the various amputations of allowances for persons with disabilities who work. Through the federal disability plan and its measures, a real effort will be made to reduce the exemption from labour income, not to mention those who have lost their jobs, and to continue the ongoing construction project to reduce the price of labour and reform the integration allowance to promote access to employment. To do so, we will strengthen safety nets and remove barriers to labour market participation for RRA beneficiaries. With regard to the issue of employment in the federal government, the employment rate is catastrophic – 1.2% – and it is falling further. This plan offers a structural response that was built with the Minister of Public Service, Petra De Sutter. It wants to impose more incisively the recruitment of persons with disabilities, whether through a more proactive role of the Committee for the Recruitment of Persons with Disabilities (CARPH) in the federal public service, by greater vigilance towards the proper implementation of the priority commitment system – which is not being done today – and by putting forward reasonable accommodation obligations. A budget has already been planned with the Minister of Budget. Some people with disabilities also want to embark on an independent career. There are also many obstacles. There will be a reduction in the financial conditions for access to the social status of the self-employed, the organisation of information campaigns and better support for persons with disabilities in the search for employment in the context of reintegration policies. That is what Minister Clarinval is committed to in this plan. The third axis is entitled "A sustainable country". Over the past three decades, several conferences and international agreements have contributed to the emergence of a concept of sustainable development. However, practices in our country still need to be developed in order to address the specific needs and problems of people with disabilities. The National High Council for Persons with Disability will be involved by Minister Khattabi in the development of climate and environmental policies to ensure a fair transition for this vulnerable target group. This is a realization of this plan. With other organizations, the Conseil Supérieur will also be consulted on mobility policy to ensure the accessibility of trains and stations. Minister Gilkinet is committed to a real effort to improve the assistance system for passengers with reduced mobility. A huge work is to be done on the parking card, the parking spaces reserved for the beneficiaries, in which we will have to work with the federated entities. Accessibility is an important issue, but also digital accessibility in an increasingly connected world. In fact, the digital divide deepened during this crisis. We will first ensure the accessibility of all websites for all types of disability. That is not the case at the moment, unfortunately. We will work to do this with Secretary of State Mathieu Michel. Finally, in a more European dimension, since September 2020, we have been obliged to apply the European Accessibility Directive, which we expect to access. On the fourth axis, I will be briefer: having rights, being able to use them fully, requires meeting certain criteria and being legally fit. If this is the case for the majority of the population, some are at the margin. However, any person, even if fragile or diminished, must be taken into account and considered as a full member of our society. Even if it needs support, it is important that it retains as much decision-making power as possible and the possibility of autonomous acts. For this reason, access to and understanding of information remains essential. To this end, we will work with the Minister of Justice, Vincent Van Quickenborne, on access to justice through the provision of whispering sets in the courts, the provision of registers of sworn translators and interpreters and better access to police services, particularly for people with reduced mobility through their digital reporting. We will also look at the 1990 law, particularly with regard to the protection of the mentally ill. This law must be reformed with greater regard to the rights of patients. This work will take place in collaboration with Frank Vandenbroucke. On the other hand, I also want to work on the accessibility of democracy. It is known that persons with disabilities encounter difficulties in getting to the polling station, cannot vote or are not represented on the lists of electors. A country of cooperation and respect. Decisions should be based on reliable data and statistics. These should provide a better understanding of the various problems faced by people with disabilities. The plan provides for the establishment of a working group to examine the needs and possibilities of collecting data and statistics on persons with disabilities. In this twenty-first century, we must be fully committed to activities that are carried out together and eliminate all forms of exclusion. In order to promote the participation of people with disabilities in cultural and sporting activities, the European Disability Card is an essential tool that will be further extended. The demand for better disclosure of this card is very strong in the sector and I also have regular questions about this from you. So we will certainly work on this. During this legislature we want to promote the use of the card in the cultural and sports institutions. Minister Verlinden will also help to make the map better known to the police. Furthermore, the EDC website will be completely renewed and made more accessible. The public with a disability may also be subjected to unfair treatment and discrimination. The philosophy of law and laws is to guarantee equality among all citizens. Together with Secretary of State Sarah Schlitz, we want to examine these anti-discrimination laws in order to focus on the protected criteria of disability while improving the tests of discrimination. I come to the sixth and final axis: Belgium, a strong voice in Europe and in the world. We will work in a particular way, in particular, to ensure that the disability of asylum seekers who are accommodated in our Fedasil centres is taken into consideration and detected as soon as possible, to work with them in the framework of Fedasil. We'll do this work with my colleague, Sammy Mahdi. I now turn to the implementation of this plan. The above measures are only some of the measures that will be implemented in the coming years thanks to the Federal Disability Action Plan. As you could read, this is 145 measures. Everything is present to make the plan a success. The seeds are planted to offer everyone the right to full inclusion in the future. I will, of course, be very vigilant about the implementation of the plan under this legislature. I will first submit an interim initial report mid-term at the end of 2022. It will be presented here before Parliament. A final report is planned for 2024. As previously stated, it is a collaboration with each of the Ministers and Secretaries of State. This means that it is the latter who are responsible for the proper implementation of this plan. It is now up to them to initiate consultations and approaches for the development of their measures. This means that they have all received fact sheets to tell us how they will implement the measures of the plan, within what time frame and with what budget. We are following this plan step by step with all designated officials. With actors in the field, such as the Conseil Supérieur des personnes handicapées or Unia, we continue to participate. Civil society continues to be involved. You are also the ones who will control the government for the proper implementation of this plan. When you have questions about specific measures and their implementation, and when they relate to the responsibilities of other ministers, they will have to be asked except when it comes to my skills. I'm coordinating the plan. I want him to be active and to achieve most of this plan by 2024, but don't hesitate to ask my government colleagues to see how their own measures are evolving! Thank you, Madam President. The Chair: Thank you, Minister. I will give the floor to the members for the debate, in the order of importance of the political groups. Oral questions were also tabled and I would like to inform members that they have the opportunity to refer to the text of the oral question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic573x.u3	I have a lot of questions and I would understand if the Minister didn't have time to answer them all. In that case, I will ask the unanswered questions again later. I am pleased that you discussed this plan with your colleagues in advance. I think that gives it a better chance of success. I agree with the plan itself, and I think that all Members of this House agree on the purpose of the plan. You stress that society needs to adapt to people with disabilities, not the other way around, and that is what everyone is right about. William Boeva, a well-known Flemish comedian with a disability, recently communicated in the media that it is still the case that most children grow up without knowing anyone with a disability. In my opinion, this is already beginning, because the fact that adults continue to place people in booths, rather than regard them as part of the big society, has to do with that. So he certainly has a point. You may not know him, but look him up. Besides, he's very funny. Your plan contains a lot of good elements, but I read a little too often that reference is made to research that still needs to be done. In that case it often remains words and does not follow any actions, and that frightens me somewhat. I hope you can reassure me in that regard. I think that you and I are approaching this issue in a different way, in the sense that I would focus on what these people can do and how we can promote it as much as possible, for example in the area of working conditions. I also believe that it is better to get people out of the benefit system. Better that than focusing so hard on those benefits, which doesn't mean they're important. That's not how far we're gonna stand apart. I've listed a few questions. I'll try to get through it quickly. I repeat, I do not blame you if you do not answer. In that case, they will come back again. I have tried to raise questions within the area of social affairs in order not to end up with other ministers or other committees. In the case of measure 8 on raising the IVT* towards the poverty line, I would particularly like to ask whether that is not something you have already done. Do you have any additional increases in this regard in mind? After all, that would be news. What are the increases? If not, this should not have been included in the action plan, because it has already been done. The same applies to the abolition of the 'price of love'. That too has already been introduced. Any new cases coming up? That is my question to you. Measure 11 concerns the examination of the possibility of a flat-rate and variable part for integration. Can you give us a more detailed explanation? After all, I am asking myself what the advantage could be of a fixed and a flat-rate part of IT. Is it intended to grant a flat-rate IT to each IT beneficiary or even to every recognised person with disabilities, or is there a target group for it? Will you make additional financial resources available for this purpose? The next question is important to our party. Do you not, above all, threaten to get into the waters of the Communities? In Flanders, we already have the healthcare budget for people with disabilities*, which amounts to EUR 300 per month. This budget is available for all persons with disabilities who have a certain degree of need for care and who do not make use of the subsequent funding. I therefore wonder whether this will not be the case with each other and what it is intended to do. It will be no secret to you that we would have preferred it at one level so that we do not have to have the current discussion. However, since that is not the case today, I wonder whether you have already been with the Communities on this matter. Measure 14 is the examination of slopes to reform the rate of 28% reduction on integration for persons in a collective housing facility. I'll throw you a flower, because that's a very good thing. The 28% reduction, when someone is living in an institution financed by the Communities, cannot really be applied in Flanders today. After all, there is the introduction of the subsequent financing. This is a very bizarre situation today, where people in the same reception situations, for example, are subject to different IT calculations. So it is very good that you want to tackle that problem. What will you do, however? Which slopes are being investigated? Have you been in contact with the Ministers of the Communities in this respect? Measure 38 is intended to reduce the 'price of work' for the IT beneficiaries. That measure had already been announced. However, there was a lot of disagreement within the government. We feel a lot of disagreement within the government. The abolition of the 'price of love' and the 'price of labour' in itself has a very activating effect, as this makes working more attractive for people with disabilities and their partners. However, an exemption from the increase in replacement income does not show any activation effect. So there are a few questions to ask about that. How's that going? You have been promising this for some time. Are you going to make additional budgetary resources available for this? Is it perhaps the intention to use part of the budgetary resources for the reduction of the 'price of work' to increase the exemption from replacement income? I come to the measures announced to improve the labour market participation of people with disabilities. It is good in itself that they want to do this, but I have the impression that it looks rather lean in this plan. We often criticize this government in this respect. For example, the coalition agreement contains a fine sentence about an activity rate of 80%, which gives applause to our banks. However, if we look at the measures to achieve them in the future, we do not really see anything. I hope things won't be the same here. How concrete can you be about that today? We ourselves have proposals in this regard which we believe could be a major step forward. This is our bill on employment integration jobs, which aims to make it possible for people with an IVT to combine a part-time job with the full retention of the IVT. There is no need to fear loss of income, which is important in this regard. In the event of a relapse one can claim back the IVT, as before. In order to compensate for the retention of the IVT, an additional RSZ contribution is paid on the earned salary. This ensures the affordability of the system. It is no secret that we want to take all these factors into account, and we also want to achieve the objective that you are actually describing less specifically. I'm getting to the EDC card. There's something to do with that. We are only at a stage, as you yourself have said, where the card is recognised on the one hand, even European, but on the other hand it is not completed. It is very difficult to indicate exactly what it is intended for, and I understand that this is not as obvious as it is proposed. I also asked whether the EDC card could not replace the toilet card. I would be in favour of that because it is more anonymous. I understand that the bathroom pass can be too confrontational now and then. I do not know if that is a slope in which you could easily go along, but the question remains, above all, how we can make that map really useful and how we can ensure, among other things, that it is possible for all aid workers to take it into account. After all, I also see the other side of the story. We are now getting a lot of complaints from people with disabilities who have the card and think it is worth something, but, for example, in the hospital, they find that this is not the case, who want to go to the bathroom and find that the card is worthless, who end up in a situation with the police and find that there is very little knowledge about that card. We're in a stalemate. Either we make something of it and there are ideas about it, or it is not a good thing and it will only cause more frustration. That's my personal opinion. Finally, I have two more questions. Madam Minister, we read in your plan that you want to make a very strong commitment to data collection and analysis in the field of people with disabilities. I am talking about measure 131 on the development of statistics on the size and nature of the entry and exit of IVT and IT beneficiaries. You will set up a task force to do so. You mentioned this for a moment, and I fully understand that this task force is being set up primarily to improve the need and possibilities for data collection, but I would like to point out to you that you must not lose sight of the fact that those opportunities for better data collection may mean that you will be able to act harder against fraud and misuse. You may expect us to bring that up, but that too is social. I think there is almost nothing worse than that the money that is intended for people who really have a disability ends up in the wrong way with people who do not need it. I cannot imagine anything worse than that, but saying that this would not happen would be very naive, so I wonder if you will include that in it. For example, will the persons involved in the detection of fraud in the IVT and IT within DG Persons with Disabilities also be involved in this task force? Well, I guess that's the logical thing to do. Finally, I had a question about the evaluation of the sickness pension scheme for disabled civil servants. As far as measure 12 is concerned, can you confirm that it is your intention to make this scheme more activating? Can the system of sickness pensions for permanent physical incapacity, which sometimes means that civil servants are retired at a very early age, be put on the spot for you? Will you also review the compulsory retirements for civil servants from the age of 63? I couldn't resist ending up with these questions. It's a lot of questions, I hope you'll be able to answer something, otherwise we'll be submitting those questions. Again, we have a common goal here and we may have a slightly different vision here and there, but I'm glad the plan is there. Let's get that straight.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic573x.u4	Madam Minister, I thank you and the government as a whole for the successful completion of a dynamic and ambitious project for this new year, which reflects your good will and a very good approach. You mentioned the need to reverse a paradigm. To define a human rights-based approach, to involve the first concerned, to use government cooperation and to include persons with disabilities in political life, all this seems to us to be extremely valuable and necessary. It is enough to contemplate a parliamentary assembly to realize that we are absolutely not there. Therefore, I wonder if we are ready, as is the government. In the run-up to 2030, we will be able to see what level of political integration of people with disabilities will be achieved. It seemed essential to me to indicate that. Another essential aspect is the Inter-Ministerial Conference. Education, training and access to culture are extremely important to us. To this end, bridges must be laid between federal public institutions – but also cultural ones – so that every lever can be used properly. Indeed, even if efforts are made, there is still a lot of work to be done. To engage with culture, this plan was able to take into consideration all audiences. I draw a parallel to another issue which concerns us very much in the Committee on Social Affairs, namely the reform of the status of artist: should we not give ourselves a precise analysis of this topic? Have we thought about the complementary difficulties, as we do in this reform on gender issues? Do we also do so in terms of disability? These are questions that I would like to ask Minister Dermagne. We'd have to check it out. There's probably more. Compared to the idea of non-use of rights, it is obviously very valuable to us. We know that DG Han has big stakes ahead of her and that she is working on it. Digital migration will be essential. You talked about the need for physical counters within the SNCB. We will keep a certain number of hours. This seems to us important because it is part of the reasons for non-use. The digital divide is known to be a major challenge for DG Han. In that regard, I would have liked to know whether there had been any cross-cuttingity in the proposals. Is it planned for all public institutions to keep a window as is always the case for public transport? Will all members of the government ensure that a physical presence is maintained for anyone who needs it? With regard to awareness-raising, there is a willingness for public servants to have training and awareness-raising among public transport users, as at the time, for example, when awareness was raised about giving up their place if a pregnant woman was next to you. There is therefore a desire to have identical modules for both public service workers and users. It is indeed considered to be an essential element. It seems to me that we have already talked about the need for a broader awareness-raising campaign on the issue and knowledge of disability. Ms. Van Peel noted that not everyone in their family or close environment has experienced persons with disabilities. So sometimes it's not easy to realize what it means every day. Perhaps larger campaigns make it clear to everyone. With regard to sign language interpreters, we had met a sign language association which told us that it was very difficult to get involved in this very long and difficult training. But the difficulty was that at the time of engaging in these studies, there was not yet a true will. In the last few months, it has suddenly become a shortage of jobs as we wish to double any communication of a communication in sign language. It's a very important signal. It may need to be sent back to SIEP days to direct students seeking their future training. It can help. Reassuring the gender issue, its presence in a very cross-cutting way, is essential; I said it in the introduction, and I will just ask one final question on this. Back to school, we have a program and we identify our priorities. It is always relevant to identify the pitfalls. That was kind of my question, minister. You have done an important work of consultation with this government and I imagine you already know where, how and why things are going to be complicated. Of course, we don't want names or leads to difficulties, but how can we ensure that the mid-term review is positive and constructive? Have you ever anticipated the difficulties? I am thinking in particular of difficulties of practical implementation. As you said, how do you involve people who are in these situations, the experts of experience? This is obviously an essential lead. Are there any others? Do you already know when we all risk getting our feet in the carpet? How are you going to make this happen? I thank you, in any case, for the important work that has been done and done.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic573x.u5	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, what I would like to say in the introduction is ten minutes. In this year when we voted for the inclusion of an article in the Constitution to guarantee the rights to full inclusion of persons with disabilities, this Federal Disability Plan is another good news for the people concerned. I mean it very sincerely. I would like to congratulate you, Madam Minister. We know this isn't happening in a day. I imagine that there are months of consultation, consultation and work behind this result. Congratulations and thanks also to all those who contributed to the reflection, drafting and development of this plan. It was also approved by the Government. It's done and it's a good thing. Ten minutes are enough because this plan opens up the debate in Parliament and also with civil society. Both will be able to go back to some specific measure or element that we cannot, of course, address in this general debate. Second thought: a word is very important to me, it is the word "co-build"; it is not a very good word but it is a plan co-built with the sector, and first with the people concerned. It is important to start from their demands, their expectations, their needs, their difficulties and from these findings to develop something even if there are sometimes arbitrations. It is fully in the philosophy of the United Nations that every year, during a conference, evaluates the implementation of the Convention on Rights:Nothing about us without us! They want to be involved and you fully comply with it. Third, transversality: It is the only method and the right method that can be used. It is a federal mobilization of ministers and their departments to achieve the goal of access to everyone's rights. We know there are obstacles, work and a lot to do. With regard to the federal entities component and - you have referred to it - the ministerial conferences on specific topics, it is important that as the federal minister in charge you have this role of coordination, of impetus so that with the federated entities, the federal can work on issues of employment, health, etc. where skills are shared. Since the levels are equal, there is no hierarchy and this does not forget the local authorities that you do not forget since you cited the CPAS. But the communes also need a dialogue. Access to rights is a mobilization of public authorities at all levels of power with political leaders and a great awareness of the actors involved. Each Minister will make commitments and will be assessed and monitored by Parliament. In the evaluation, Parliament will play a very important role. My fourth point concerns the working method: monitoring. You're doing a first interim evaluation and one at the end of the legislature. That's what we have to do. Sometimes this can be quantified by the employment rate. We'll see the numbers. I know it's not easy, but it's important to raise public awareness. You have a point of contact in each administration. All this has to be stirred up so that everyone works and shoots in the right direction. Integrating the disability dimension into the poverty reduction plan is extremely important. I do not know what timetable you want to apply to the new action plan of the Directorate-General for People with Disabilities. I have noted one thing: this administration must be given sufficient resources to handle the files properly, quickly and effectively. In recent years, we have had to make linear savings through staff reductions and transfers to federated entities. Then it had to be rehired because there was a computer problem, a bug. We had to calm down the breaches. Providing the human resources necessary for the implementation of this complex legislation is essential! Can you tell us a word about the evolution of computer science? The TRIA programme had experienced difficulties. What do you think about implementing something new? It will take time to do so to be effective when this program is operational. It's very important. My seventh point concerns the revision of the 1987 Act (measure 18). I applaud that thought with both hands. I pleaded it during two legislatures; I was not always heard. I am sure that the sector has been consulted because the National Higher Council of Persons with Disabilities (SNPH) is seeking, and civil society too. Our legislation is 34 years old; it is obsolete and unreadable. The basic law has been amended by a number of royal decrees, which have supplemented it, amended it, reshaped it, etc. It has become very complicated both for applicants and for the administration that has to implement it. Simplification of this law is a cross-cutting issue to be taken into account. I invite you to think about it and to work on it, as shown in your measure No 18. The following measure is the medical assessment (measure 19). It's the other big construction site. It is known that half of the complaints or difficulties come from the medical assessment. There's not a huge complaint rate apart from the computer bug. But the medical assessment needs to be reviewed. A study of KUL-ULB was carried out in this regard. It was presented in 2019, I believe, during the election period. It would be wise to take it as a basis. What are the broad lines? How do you envisage modernising medical assessment? People feel they are not being heard, do not understand criteria, questions and decisions. Clarity and transparency must be brought about. People also have the impression that the doctor did not consult their file, that it lasted two minutes. So we also have to pay the doctors. There is, as we know, a recruitment problem and a payment problem. The employment rate is also an important challenge. I'm in a good position to know it's not easy. The numbers are not excellent. There are ways: consultation with the Regions and the Communities; greater support for the Commission for the Recruitment of Persons with Disabilities in the Federal Public Service (CARPH). I hope that you and the members of CARPH will be able to make a positive change in the integration of people with disabilities. I would point out here that there is little talk of the private sector. In France, a law that has existed for some 30 years has produced results. It is not contested by the French employer. It provides for quotas and financial sanctions for integration. I think France has better performance than we do in the private sector. This is a subject that requires a lot of social consultation in our country. As for close caregivers, this time they are not forgotten in the plan. We also dare to talk about mantelzorgers at the federal level. Two associations – one French speaking and one Dutch speaking –, which you have certainly met, have a more comprehensive claim than leave. For those accompanying persons with disabilities, often in situations of great dependence, there are situations of distress and suffering. The question then arises as to the well-being of these accompanying persons, who may sometimes have a bearing on the well-being of persons with disabilities themselves. I hope that progress can be made under this legislature for close caregivers. Madam President, in conclusion, I think this plan illustrates the will of the minister and the government. There has already been concrete and progress, in particular with regard to the "price of love" or allocations. I have also drafted a bill that can be debated. This is a major project and the debate is open. This is great news for the disability sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic573x.u6	We cannot stress enough the importance of public action to promote the inclusion of people with disabilities. Too often these people are perceived as a problem, which should not be. Everyone has butter on their heads. I am pleased that the government has done self-reflection with the plan and not just the others. Progress is only possible if we all move the noses in the same direction and take coordinated action. We must move away from the attitude where we regard everything as a problem, but instead respond to what the handicap can and will do. There is the medical aspect with enormous degrees of a person's limitations. That must not be forgotten. There is no such thing as a disabled person. The Action Plan contains a variety of measures, which are very good. But it is poor with the recommendation on its follow-up. Organisations such as the International High Council for Persons with a Handicap and Unia are involved in the succession, but it remains with recommendations. I don't mean to comment on every part of it, but our party does want to expose some sore points. Firstly, emergency plans need to be updated. As a result of the dramatic events in July, you have just made the poignant story of a hearing-deprived person, I have already asked whether the existing emergency plans take account of persons with disabilities. This issue is now being moved to three ministers, Minister Verlinden, Minister Khattabi and Minister Vandenbroucke, but if no one takes the lead, there is no danger of changing the emergency plans. It seems appropriate to us that a minister should be appointed to coordinate the matter. Secondly, the revaluation of income replacement, measure 9 of the plan, is well-intentioned, but only aims to raise the poverty line. This will keep those concerned living in poverty, because the IVT remains below the poverty line. We find it incomprehensible that you do not show more courage and ambition to overcome poverty in people with disabilities. A whole range of measures are linked to the IT and the IVT. Is it not useful to thoroughly reform and simplify the system? There are enough complaints that show the shortcomings in the system. Just as in your policy statement, you will "evaluate," "research" and "study," but these are not action points. Action points should provide solutions to the problems. The High Council for Persons with a Handicap and other organisations have already provided sufficient study material. So we're missing action in that area. Public service to the disabled is also a recurring complaint, whether it is about communication with the person concerned, the speed of action, some bullying measures or the non-take-up of various social benefits. As I have already said, it would be better to start from an entirely new basis and not build on the current very complex administrative procedures. A number of measures, e.g. measure 32, are addressed to all government members. The question is where is the coordination of such measures? That's how they torpedo almost in advance all the chances of success. Labour market participation is rightly addressed. The return-to-work coordination is being transferred to Minister Vandenbroucke, but his proposed plan of the 60 return coordinators earlier this month is so minimalistic that the question arises as to how far the approach, which should focus specifically on people with disabilities, will be sufficient. The employment rate in government is appallingly low and has even fallen in recent years. The rudder must therefore be reversed in order to achieve a rate of employment of 3 %. The recently requested figures on the number of people with disabilities employed in the Cabinets put the finger on the wound: of the 648 employees of the Federal Cabinets, about five or only 0.77 % have a limitation. In your cabinet, Madam Secretary, according to the March figures, no one works with disabilities. As an example, that can count. You want to encourage public companies to work towards the 3% standard, but the government itself is in serious default. The fact that we still have to make an inventory of the accessibility of federal buildings in 2021 is actually too crazy for words. I'm referring here to measure 80. Accessibility and disability have been a hot topic for decades, but nothing has been done about it. Finally, one can always hide behind budgetary constraints or building problems, especially in part of the old building heritage that the government uses. A measure welcomed by the sector is the transposition of the European accessibility act into Belgian law, but this too threatens to become a story of fall and stand up because of the extreme overlapping of powers and without a leading minister. We are also missing a number of things. Your note is very strongly focused on the federal level and the federal institutions, which has already been mentioned a few times, but part of disability policy is regional matter, as you yourself said. Consultation between the different levels is therefore a must in order to increase the power of the Action Plan. I therefore hope that the consultation between all levels on the common vision paper will not take too long. A problem that was left untouched is the problem that visually impaired or blind people have to sign documents. They cannot, of course, read the documents and so the problem arises that their signature can often have far-reaching consequences. Something blind drawing can be taken both literally and figuratively here. This issue should be included in this action plan for our party. Colleagues, I decide. The sector has received this plan well and hopes that it will not remain in the slide, but will be implemented effectively. This will require monitoring, which will follow up the action plan at regular intervals. It's not a detail. About 6% of the population has a disability. This is about 600,000 people. They deserve our full attention. I therefore hope that the plan will be equally enthusiastic among all the fellow ministers involved. It would be a pity if there were no broad support to achieve this. Because, as already mentioned, many of the measures included can improve the situation of people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic573x.u7	Madam Chair, Minister, thank you for your presentation. You recalled that every person with disabilities has the right to full inclusion in society, including the right to reasonable accommodation. The Reform Movement congratulates the government on the action plan adopted on 16 July 2021. We must act in favour of people with disabilities. Personally, it is a subject that I care about, since for several years I have chaired a suitable work enterprise. Finally, only two and a half years remain to implement all these measures, which is a real challenge. Nevertheless, there are still outstanding issues, as well as a series of observations or remarks. I understand that an interim report must be submitted within a little more than a year, that is, by the end of 2022, and that a final report must be drawn up by 2024 in order to take stock of the situation and the evolution of the measures implemented. Two and a half years is a real challenge. How do you intend to carry out this monitoring? These hundred and forty-five measures are a clear commitment of the government, although I imagine you will not distribute points to every minister. Will a support unit be set up to assist the government in this mission? Will staff be specifically dedicated to this task or will "Persons with disabilities" referencing in each administration ensure that these missions are carried out? Moreover, this is the 2021-2024 plan, some of which is a continuation of what Ministers or Secretaries of State have done previously in previous governments. We may regret that the plan does not provide an indication of the current status of the situation or the status of the projects. Do you have this information? Can you provide them to us? With regard to the cost of this plan, if it is easy to calculate the direct cost, including measures 8 to 11, other more indirect measures are likely to have a cost. Would you have a budget estimate of the direct and indirect costs of implementing this measure, possibly taking into account the return effects? If so, can you provide us with a copy? Furthermore, the automation of rights, or rather the automatic identification of potential beneficiaries, has been the subject of some work since your predecessors. Can you tell us what the pitfalls are still to be lifted? There are more than 183,000 medical examinations to be performed per year. There would also be savings in this area. The Intake project, Measure 22, is clearly in this direction. The same applies to measures 24 to 27 relating to the social tariff. Finally, in this numerical part of measures 40 and 42, we are talking about developing a simulation tool, like what exists for pensions. This is indeed a very good initiative that needs to be taken quickly. Minister, you are talking about a modern vision of disability – notably through measures 18 and 19. Could we say more about what you mean by that? With regard to the recovery plan in particular, it is a question of integrating the disability dimension. In this regard, can you elaborate on some concrete leads by means of possible examples? As for employment, especially in the private sector, what do you intend to do to encourage employers to overcome their fears? For example, are tax measures possible to encourage workplaces? Are these provisions already in force? In terms of mobility, is there a mapping of the situation? Moreover, this seems to us a prerequisite for any action to be taken with Infrabel and SNCB. With regard to Scancars, the problem becomes serious and systematically obliges cardholders to make a claim and justify themselves. This is also a disadvantage for those who accompany the owners of a parking card for disabled persons. We think there's an emergency. I would therefore like to know where your discussions with the Regions and local authorities are, if not more. With regard to violence against persons with disabilities, we regret that the plan merely highlights or evaluates. Indeed, this problem is well known and requires action. Both within the family nucleus and within an institution of rest or care, you will agree that this violence is unacceptable. For this reason, prevention and sanctions must be commensurate with the actions of poor people. In the area of statistics, it is stated that data collection is difficult on the grounds that definitions vary. Can you give us the reason? Would it not, in the end, be more appropriate to refer to the definition developed by the United Nations Convention? If that is impossible, what is the reason? Moreover, the Communities should use the same definition. Minister, there is a proposal for toolboxes and key on-the-door training on anti-validism. What exactly is this? Finally, there is often a question of consultation with federated entities. How, then, should we consider the articulation of this plan with their respective policies? How do you plan to work on these 145 measures with your counterparts, how often and with what goals? Madam Minister, I thank you in advance for the answers you would like to give me.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic573x.u8	Madam Secretary, CD&V welcomes your action plan to this committee. We are pleased that you have worked together with your colleagues in the government on a comprehensive plan that contains many important issues for people with disabilities. The well-being and rights of people with disabilities are very close to my heart. In an inclusive society, people with disabilities need to be able to participate fully, and it remains an important objective for them to be treated equally. I am pleased that I have been able to contribute to this goal through the adoption of a number of legislative proposals, recently in connection with the constitutional anchoring of an inclusive society. However, there is still a lot of work to be done on this inclusive society, because the problems have not been solved with an article in the Constitution. We now have to live up to it in daily practice. We've had the story of William Boeva recently, but there's a lot of people going through something like that. I have a handicapped brother of my own. Many people are excluded because of their limitations or have to undergo daily humiliations. So there's still a lot of work to be done. In the time I have been given, I cannot go into all the measures, but I would like to ask a few questions about certain priorities. Firstly, I am pleased that you recognise the regions as an ally. You want to work out a plan with them by 2030, by setting up inter-ministerial conferences. It is important to coordinate this with them, as the regions have considerable competence. However, I am convinced that this can be complementary and that there can be very good cooperation. Madam Secretary, when can we expect this first inter-ministerial conference? In the past, we have strongly urged several ministers to hold these conferences, but it did not happen at that time. There were always excuses at the time. I hope this is over now. Secondly, you will also involve the organisations of people with disabilities and the people with disabilities themselves more in drawing up the federal relay and transition plan and giving them a say. Have you involved them yet? After all, discussions on the relaunch plan are ongoing. Have you already involved the organisations of experience experts in the preparation of the federal relay and transition plan, which is now for discussion? How will you involve them in your plans in the future? Thirdly, an important item is the participation of people with disabilities in the labour market. Anyone who can and wants to work must be given the opportunity to do so and must not be punished by the loss of a large part of his or her compensation. A different method of calculation of integration through a higher exemption from labour income is certainly welcome. The impact of the 'price of labour' must be reduced. You are working on this, but have you made any progress in this respect? We await this measure with great impatience. You can already count on our support for this. Fourthly, people with disabilities who want to work lose not only partially or even entirely their integration, but also the social benefits associated with it. They are punished twice: they suddenly no longer receive a social fee for water, they no longer receive a free subscription for public transport and they can no longer count on a higher contribution to health care. All this disappears together with the integration meeting. At the time, I proposed that you grant integration to persons with disabilities so that they do not lose the derived rights of integration. A grant of 1 euro is welcome, although of course it may also be more. How do you feel about this proposal? Are you prepared to take such a measure? If I am in favour, this is reflected in the main measure 11, which will examine the possibility of a flat-rate and variable part of integration. That is a line of thinking which leads me to believe that you have started my proposal, and I am certainly pleased with that. Hopefully we will see results soon and you will announce its implementation. I have also tabled a bill, together with Mr Muylle, to give people who have a right to income replacement and integration opportunities to participate in temporary projects to promote their integration into the labour market in cooperation with the regions. From Flanders there is a lot of demand for this, but now people are afraid to go to work because they are afraid to lose their benefit or because they are afraid that if they are unable to do the job, they will have to do the whole application procedure again. There is now a pilot project to ensure that people who want to work also have the opportunity to try without the risk of losing their benefit. I would like to stress that this is about working on a voluntary basis. The ambition of this government is to achieve an activity rate of 80% by 2030. We must then give everyone, including those with disabilities, the opportunity to contribute to this. Will you get to work on our bill, no problem? If you want to realize our bill yourself, no problem, do it. Otherwise we will put our legislative proposal on the agenda and we will be able to approve it in this way in Parliament. I have two more points. For the employment of people with disabilities, the government should set a good example. If, as a government, we cannot set a good example and invest in the talents of people with disabilities and offer their adapted work - work that also needs to be done effectively, not work that we invent - why would other private sector employers do so? The government's a bad student. We don't get the 3 % rule we impose on everyone. In 2019, the government employed 1.22% of people with disabilities, instead of 3%. That's even less than in 2018. Then it was 1.25 %. Hopefully, you, together with the Minister of Civil Service, will pay due attention to this issue and take effective account of the opinions of the Advisory Committee on the Recruitment of Persons with Disabilities in the Federal Public Service. They have the right expertise and experience to ensure that public services become an attractive employer for people with disabilities. Today, too little action is being taken on the basis of these opinions. For example, initiatives must be taken to enable work to be tailor-made. There is also a need for an adapted selection procedure that examines the skills and knowledge required for a particular job and not in general. Someone shouldn't be able to do all the government jobs. A person with autism can perfectly be a very good ICT user without that person being able to perform a good reception function. Maybe that person is less communicative. Selor's been testing for all these skills these days. You should be able to do anything, not the job you're actually recruited for. Those Selor tests need to test what they need to test, which is what people are recruited for. Otherwise, we won't move forward. I hope you will convince the Minister of Civil Service in that regard. You said earlier that the Minister should be addressed. I've already done that. However, you are also a coordinating minister, a kind of watchdog. You may occasionally effectively ensure that your colleagues also do what they have promised. We'll get ahead of ourselves. I'll certainly do the same myself. Regarding financial support for people with disabilities, you want to make improvements to social rates. I myself submitted a bill in 2019 that was adopted to evolve towards a fully automatic allocation of the social tariff on gas and electricity with retroactive application. People often have to wait a few months to even a year for their disability to be recognised, while in the meantime they lose the social rate. On an annual basis, this soon saves 300 euros in electricity costs. The legislative proposal has been approved, but in practice the legislator cannot do much about it. I am counting on you to address the issue of paper certificates, in cooperation with Minister Van der Straeten and possibly Minister Dermagne. Have you taken any action on this? I have also tabled a new bill, because people who are entitled to a care budget for elderly people with a need for care or a care allowance for children with a specific need for support fell out of the boat. They were not included in the previous proposal because of the complex procedures following the state reform. I have therefore tabled a legislative proposal on this subject, and I hope that we will be able to approve it, so that no one falls out of the boat, not even those who are now supported by the Flemish level, but who still have to get the social tariff at the federal level. If we find that there are problems, we must try to solve them. I have also read that Minister Van der Straeten would like to grant a premium to people who are waiting for the social tariff to be awarded. Why is this bounty coming and how are we supposed to see them? Is that some kind of advance on the social rate or a one-time premium for everyone? I hope it doesn't get too complex, because people should just get what they deserve. If one comes up with something else again, people will no longer see the forest through the trees. Perhaps you could also explain what the premium means.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic573x.u9	Mrs. Lanjri, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic573x.u10	Madam Secretary, finally, I would like to discuss the EDC card. I have asked a lot of questions about this in the past. The EDC card is a nice instrument. People need to be able to participate in the fields of culture, sport, leisure and many other areas. I think an extension of the use of the EDC card is appropriate. The map is still far too little known to organizations and local authorities. That needs to be remedied, and I hope that you will be committed to it. In particular, I would like to raise the problem of the current poor service provided by the federal government, namely regarding the website. That website doesn't look like anything. Recently I learned that some municipalities wanted to register, but that did not work, despite three attempts at different times. Questions addressed to the mentioned contact address on the website will not be answered. That's not a business card, on the contrary. That's how people pull off and that's not how the EDC card gets scattered. I hope you will take the necessary steps to make the EDC card a success story. I expect you to cooperate with the regions, but also with the VVSG and various organisations. The Disability Action Plan, which is before us, is a comprehensive, broad and ambitious plan. That is good, because we need ambition to achieve an inclusive society in which everyone feels at home and everyone is accepted as they are. There are still many obstacles to be addressed, as you know. In our view, this action plan is certainly a good starting point, but certainly not yet an end point. On the contrary, this action plan begins work. I'm glad you want to put your shoulders on it. We will, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic573x.u11	Madam Secretary, I've been waiting a long time for this file, as well as your pension file, and looking forward to reading it. Mrs. Van Peel said she'd been looking for flowers and she'd added a flower jar once in a while. Yesterday, autumn started and then it's hard to find beautiful flowers. I won't throw flowerpots. In your text I find mainly seeds that are planted and if one wants to have a beautiful flower, it depends on how they take care of that plant. That's hard to do when you have to do it alone. Madam Secretary, you do not lack energy. You have explained this very enthusiastically, for which I thank you, but there are still some good reasons for following this federal action plan with great attention. I begin with the experiences of the people with disabilities themselves. Unia published a comprehensive report last year, packed with concrete stories and testimonies. It gave an overview of the many ways in which people with disabilities in our country, as you have just said, are still faced with all kinds of exclusion and discrimination. Not so long ago, in 2014, our country was still reprimanded in the United Nations. We didn't do very well on a lot of points. There is legislation restricting the decision-making power of people with disabilities. The education we can't charge you for is too little inclusive. There is a lack of reasonable adjustment at work. Self-employment is difficult and our buildings and public transport are not accessible enough. Madam Minister, there is, of course, also a second point, which I know since your policy statement concerns you. I was shocked, quite frankly, when I heard you explain that a quarter of our fellow countrymen with disabilities are at risk of poverty. That is a lot and something must be done about it. Of course, there's also my personal experience. As most of you know, I am daddy of a beautiful twenty-year-old daughter with a very severe limitation. So I've seen and experienced something at that level and I'm still going through it: schools, institutions, papers, transport and that's more or life as it is. It has also been mentioned a few times here today. We really need to teach people how to deal with people with disabilities. The lack of this hurts not only the persons themselves, but also the family members around him or her. I prefer to talk about a restriction rather than a disability. For some reason, I'm having trouble with that term. It is for these three reasons, namely the exclusion, the risk of poverty and my personal experience, that I have wondered whether we, politicians, should not be harsh on ourselves in this matter. I think so. Most people deserve the best possible plans, ambitious targets and real concrete steps forward. I have a few comments to make on what I belong to you here and what I read. I'll start. Madam Secretary, you are part of the federal government. You're proposing the plan. Your colleagues have gone to work. As you yourself mentioned earlier, you have proposed the actions that fall within their competence as best you can. That makes sense, too. I am not going to fall into the house because you yourself have just made the point. You may agree with me on the basis of what I heard from you earlier. We live in a federal country with fragmented powers. I see a lot of nice points in your plan. However, no matter how well such a federal plan is implemented, it is always only half the work. Let's get that straight. There was talk of an inter-federal plan to tackle poverty in our country. In fact, I think that the many Belgians with disabilities deserve such an inter-federal plan. At the end of last year I asked you a question about the experience experts and the school that would be closed. You said then that you would try to give as many experienced experts a job as possible. That school's closed by now. There is nothing you can do about it; there is no more funding for it. If you are now arguing for better jobs for people with disabilities and the Länder decide that there are no budgets for additional educational initiatives for these people, then it is still a waste of time. When I read that people want to work on poverty, on jobs and on accessibility, we need to involve education in a coordinated way. We must then tackle the housing situation and public transport, infrastructure and services. I have heard and read very little about these matters. Colleagues, that is not normal, that is a policy with a limitation. A general remark is that many things in the plan are not really concrete. I cannot say where the fond is and I believe that this applies to everyone here. I read in 18 actions that you're going to investigate something. Furthermore, I found 15 evaluations and an analysis will be made 4 times. In addition, people will be sensitized at least 3 times. I have here a list of 40 actions, all with thinking, studying, limiting, evaluating... the plan gives the impression of being a list of low-hanging fruit, with vague promises. So I really hope that these actions will become tangible in the coming years, that they will become real measures with results. Then I'd like to give you that flower we talked about today. Fortunately, there are good things in the plan that can be handled well, not by chance if a federal minister is fully competent. Then I expect results and ambition, as in the actions concerning the judiciary and directors, main measure 105 and 106. It is really important that we have a framework here. It's weird that this isn't here yet. That may be a step in the right direction that we can look forward to. Sometimes I miss ambition, for example in poverty policy. You mentioned that a moment ago. There's the price of love. Partners want to live together, but would lose on their benefit, so they don't make that choice. You have started to do so, and this has resulted in the integration process. This is a good thing, but there are also income substitutes, for example, which have exactly the same effect. Cohabitants receive lower amounts, so the partners make the bill and have to make painful choices. Why do we not also link benefits to the IVT separately from the partner's income? We'll do it with the sickness benefit, why not here? That's a missed opportunity, isn't it? I would add something about the poverty line, which you yourself said. An IVT that goes towards the poverty line, but will not rise above it, that is too little, especially for my group. The Federal Government's employment policy is also striking. The federal government employs a lot of people. The government has a direct impact on the labour market due to the large number of employees, but also as an example employer. If we are constantly talking about the rate of effectiveness of 80%, knowing that there are still many challenges for this group, then it is particularly painful that the government employs few people with disabilities. The figures for employment of people with disabilities in the government have even fallen slightly. PVDA thinks it is positive that this is clearly mentioned in this plan, but the ambition should not be 'we want to get to it', it must be 'we must get to it'. We're missing that. I note that it must be about employment. Main measure 50 is about state placements, but I hope it's about paid internships. I used to take that for granted, but nowadays I do have my doubts. I would also like to get an explanation of main measure 42 on reintegration, the return-to-work coordination. The re-integration of people with disabilities was in the coalition agreement. What are the concrete plans in this respect? When will we know anything about that? How will we ensure that people find good jobs? My final point concerns accessibility for both SNCB and many other service providers. There are a lot of actions and good intentions on this, which is a good thing, and this is also addressed by the UN, but as far as main measure 93 on SNCB is concerned about increasing the number of autonomous stations, the evaluation will of course depend heavily on the number of improved stations. Are there any targets for this and who made them? I'm not gonna find them. My final point concerns the reform of DG Persons with Disabilities. The National High Council for Persons with Disability will also provide advice and support in many areas. Will both services be given the necessary additional resources to cope with all the reforms and all that work?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic573x.u12	Thank you, Madam Secretary. We have also paid great attention to the plan which contains many positive elements, but which we still have a number of questions to ask. You propose an inclusive approach to this issue. That is also in line with the coalition agreement. It is also necessary for the success of this plan. One of the issues that is also included in the problem of accessibility is also explicitly dealt with on pages 35 to 38. Moreover, the federal government agreement provides for a separate universal accessibility action plan. The first question therefore is to what extent this plan for people with disabilities already takes this into account. In this respect, the action plan for people with disabilities is already somewhat against the principle of universal accessibility in the sense that this plan focuses on a number of punctual issues while the approach could be much more general. One example is to involve specialized organisations on accessibility to public buildings. That is good, but we believe that this can be much wider. In this sense, I would like to draw the Minister's special attention to accessibility issues. There is a different organisational reality in Flanders, Wallonia and Brussels. In Flanders, one accessibility agency was chosen. It's called Inter. There are several organisations in Brussels and in the French-speaking part of the country. CAWaB is the best known of these and is considered a bit as a umbrella organisation, but there are still several organisations working on it. I would like to stress this because it is very important that the roll-out for accessibility in the different parts of the country should have the same intensity. The good news is that Inter and CAWaB are working very well together right now. There are many fine examples in the private sector, which I will not discuss in detail. Will the Minister ensure in its policy that project accessibility is agreed with Inter and CAWaB? Will it also involve both organisations in the roll-out of accessibility policies? Will it be ensured that fellow ministers do the same? In general, this action plan lacks coordination between the federal government and the Länder. That is not a formality in this case, but it is a necessity. When we talk about universal accessibility and a universal approach for people with disabilities, using insights and developments in the Länder is conducive to broad support. As far as accessibility is concerned, we note that these investigations carry out tasks for the federal government and the Flemish government and that different criteria are applied there. If that's true, that would be a shame. In transversal policy areas such as disability policies, there are important federal and regional competences and a federal action plan could be chosen. I heard there's an intention to work that out. There are a number of good examples from the past, such as the action plan on gender-based violence or the national action plan on reducing pesticide use. These are interfederal actions that have made everything efficient. Why wasn't that chosen from the beginning? Has there been any consultation with the Länder in the preparation of the action plan? A positive element of the plan is that you have a lot of eye for the realization and follow-up. For this purpose, a progress report is foreseen. For this you will look at the National High Council for Persons with a Handicap and Unia. As far as accessibility is concerned, I also have the question of whether Inter and the French-speaking partners will be involved. I would like to put a similar question to measure 37, which falls within the competence of Secretary of State Dermine. It is good that representative organisations around disability should be involved in the roll-out of the Relance Plan, but will this also apply to accessibility organisations? Measure 13 means that you will examine whether exemptions provided for in the calculation of the IGA can be extended to aid transferred to the Länder following the state reform. Can you explain what exemptions are involved? Does enlargement mean additional budgetary costs for the federal government and, if so, how much? Should any extension of exemptions not be considered in conjunction with the Länder? We naturally support the initiatives to modernise and, above all, make easier the services of DG Persons with a Disability at the Social Security Office and the procedures. It is not normal that people often have to suffer a huge administrative burden in order to get what they are entitled to from the government, so that is very positive. Measure 60 and some other measures are aimed at identifying the share of people with disabilities and encouraging their employment in public services by setting a target. However, some people with disabilities do not want to be considered as such. That must not be underestimated. One assumes the individual and his or her talents and not necessarily the figure. We must ensure that the measures that lower the thresholds for people with disabilities in the workplace do not receive any less attention than the counting of these headlines because we absolutely want to achieve the target. Accessible public buildings are a very special and important subject, and I would like to ask a number of questions because we, as a government, have an exemplary role in this area. The Government of the Buildings, the real estate partner of the federal government departments, has compiled a guide on accessibility that takes into account regional regulations and also complements them with strict standards. How does the guide relate to the accompanying initiatives taken at regional level to improve the full accessibility of public buildings? There is the good example of the label A++ in Flanders that is being applied. How does that relate to what we want federally? As regards measure 80 on the establishment of an inventory for the accessibility of federal buildings in order to develop a plan for addressing urgent needs, what criteria are used to draw up that inventory? Is there cooperation with regional experts who have been working on this issue for a long time, such as Inter and CAWaB? Following measure 82 on the formal designation of the reference persons within the Regie which operate through adequate training, they will also become advisors on accessibility. How many people will that be? On what basis are they selected? What competences and training should they have? Measure 84 calls on experience experts and specialist organisations in accessibility to assess the accessibility of the establishment of federal buildings and public buildings in general. Why are they only used for evaluation? I think they can also play an advisory role. Is that taken into account? Measure 85 is to define the accessibility of federal public services online, so that citizens do not face unexpected obstacles at the time of their visit. Will that happen in a standardised way? Who determines the criteria? Will existing instruments be used, such as the Accessible Flanders database? What are the ambitions for measure 86, an action plan to improve the accessibility of federal museums and cultural institutions? Not only should the buildings be accessible, but also the experience in museums and cultural centres should be open to people with disabilities. How do you see that in concrete terms? Open Vld has been asking for the abolition of the 'price of love' for a long time. It is not up to the government to pursue a policy against its citizens according to the form of society for which they have chosen. The 'prize of love' for the integration meeting has been a thorn in our eye for a long time. The income of the partner still affects the income replacement. So what is the situation with the income replacement allowance for people moving in together? Another side of the coin is that single people without children's burden are usually taxed more and have fewer facilities. I therefore call for the single reflex to be reflected in the action plan. This can be done through the introduction of a regulatory impact analysis, which examines whether measures do not disproportionately affect single people. This would also fit very well in the chapter on non-discrimination and equal opportunities. The plan focuses on a number of justified points and even advocates a specific approach to girls or women with disabilities, but apparently the important status of single people is forgotten, by the way, a strong growing group, not least in Brussels, if we know that the number of households with single people is moving towards 50%. Within the Equal Opportunities chapter, an evaluation of federal anti-discrimination laws is planned with regard to the specific recommendations on the issue of disability from the committee for the evaluation of those laws. We are somewhat surprised that this measure is so explicitly included in this plan, as the exercise includes an overall assessment of discrimination laws. What special attention will be paid to the group of people with disabilities who do not receive the other groups? That is not entirely clear to us. It is not only for people with disabilities that work is an important tool for integration; it is also important for us as a society that these people are given a fair chance on the labour market. We are therefore pleased that you have included this as a measure in your plan. The low level of effectiveness of people with disabilities is a source of concern, but also an important challenge to contribute to the important ambition of achieving an employment rate of 80%. This will require good consultation with the Regions, which, for example, have important keys in relation to target price reductions. I want to focus on the reintegration of people with disabilities after long-term illness. That is why I will table a resolution in which I will include a number of measures that can remedy, in addition to the coalition agreement, which also provides for it. For example, I would like to draw particular attention to the updating of welfare policy, in particular the law on well-being at work and the more efficient role of external services in prevention and protection at work. I would also like to draw attention to the activation policy for people with disabilities. For us, this should focus on the combination of work and private/care rather than on the combination of non-work and private/care. In this respect, it is strange to read that measure 46 calls for an extension of family leave. This is, of course, sympathetic, but can the Minister clarify to what extent this contributes to more work for people with disabilities? It initially contributes to less work for people who are not disabled. Moreover, it has been agreed to approach inflation to proposals for more leave through a harmonised approach. Measure 50 proposes new forms of traineeships to facilitate the admission of people with disabilities to a job in the public sector. In fact, however, this already exists in the private sector. I'm going to shorten my question, because I think I'm up to my maximum time. The question is therefore whether it is an option there to work with temporary agency work. That could be an instrument that has a positive side to it. With regard to the measures for accessible and inclusive workplaces, I would like to reiterate the importance of the involvement of these accessibility organisations. Another question concerns the promotion of the social economy, including employment for people with disabilities within the "federal purchasing policy" action plan. Should we deduce from this that one wants to evolve into clauses that explicitly stipulate that a number of people with disabilities should be involved in that realisation process? This does not seem to us to be the philosophy of the so-called corporate social responsibility that is being extended through the regions, which are responsible for the social economy. In addition, it is quite remarkable that a minister simply places people with disabilities under the concept of social economy. I would like to have some explanation of the precise scope. I would like to ask you, quite specifically, to what extent you suddenly equate concrete employment commitments with corporate social responsibility, which is of a different nature. Finally, I would like to mention a specific point of interest in measure 92. I would like to stress that Belgian fire standards and legislation must be complemented by an evacuation for people with disabilities. This exercise also takes deaf citizens into account. For years it has been pointed out that visual signals are missing from a fire alarm, which is an important bottleneck for the protection of those people. Can the result of that investigation in this legislature lead to more additions? If not, how do you guarantee that succession? Madam Minister, I have raised a lot of questions and yet some critical concerns. I hope to get answers to that, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic573x.u13	Madam President, Minister, I hope you have some energy left to listen to me after all the speeches. In any case, your federal action plan was fascinating, pleasant to read and inspiring. That's what I want to say. Like Mrs Van Peel, I will not give flowers with or without pot. I'll give you a feather, though. The action plan is a fine piece of work. We may even regard it as a kind of reference work for the coming years. It provides a good overview of the challenges facing people with disabilities. It also provides a good overview of the obstacles to be overcome in order to move towards an inclusive society. It includes not only a sharp analysis, but also an indication of where to look for solutions. Last but not least, it is also very important that the plan clearly demonstrates that it can only be achieved if all colleagues jump on the boat and install the disability reflex, in other words mainstream the handicap or, as you call it, handistream. Of course, the plan falls or stands with good cooperation with the Länder. So it's a solid plan. That may be said. Nevertheless, I have a number of questions and reservations about the plan. Some are more general; others are more specific. I shall begin with the general questions and comments. I always read in the plan that it is about main measures and additional measures. I ask myself how we should interpret that. Is it about priority and non-priority measures? Is there a time-bound or a budget-related distinction behind it? That wasn't entirely clear to me. Secondly, quite a few measures are good, but a little too general. One will study, examine and examine but concrete and quantified objectives are lacking. Why was there no more commitment to these concrete, quantified objectives? Thirdly, I miss the budgetary picture. What is this going to cost and what payback effect can we expect? However, I assume that we will have a better view of this in the context of the budgetary negotiations. Then I come to the specific questions and comments. I will focus on issues that I am frequently referred to in e-mails from people with disabilities and which I feel are urgent. It must be said that I was particularly pleased that a number of measures clearly set out the principle of integration. There is a compensation for the costs of the handicap which should be considered in essence independently of the level of income of a person. We believe that the study of the possibility of a flat-rate and variable part for IT is appropriate to this. Like Mr Lanjri, we proposed keeping the IT for one symbolic euro. That is not the case here, but the slope is interesting. We are looking forward to seeing what this will bring in concrete results. By when can we expect results? After all, this is an urgent matter. After the abolition of the so-called 'price of love', a first important step, the approach to the 'price of work' is also crucial for people with disabilities. Weekly I get emails showing that this is really important. People with disabilities already have many thresholds to overcome in our society. As policy-makers, we certainly should not add any thresholds to that. In this respect, measure 38 is a reform of integration by providing for a higher exemption from labour income, absolutely necessary and welcome. I would therefore like to encourage this, but I would like to express three reservations. Firstly, we know that many people with disabilities experience barriers in the labour market because of their disability. This is not only because of their disability, it also has to do with the way society looks at them, gives them opportunities and opens up. Today, a person with a disability is actually punished for that disability. Recently someone emailed me who told me that despite a disability they had studied well, which was not obvious, but when entering the labour market it turns out that income is just too high to maintain integration. That's discouraging, all the more so because it's a single parent. There is a problem here. The first is therefore that integration is also very important for those who work. Sometimes the costs of working out combined with the handicap are even higher, for example transport costs. Perhaps even an increase in integration could be envisaged in this respect. Secondly, if a person with a disability has a medical relapse in the labour market or becomes unemployed again because of a temporary contract, he or she loses some of the integration. This disadvantage stems from the way replacement income is included in the calculation of integration. For people with disabilities, therefore, labour has a price. I have one final remark to make: when a person with a disability with a replacement income goes back to work and falls out again quickly, after all, it is real that one goes into work, but that one does not succeed, then the person with a replacement income loses his right to integration with, as one colleague said, all the social benefits associated with it. In short, there are many thresholds for people with disabilities to get to work or to get back to work. In this respect, I hope that the problem of the 'price of work' will not be considered too closely and that, for example, the replacement income will also be taken into account. Will that happen? Is there room for that? By what time can we expect the results of measure 38? One element on which I am particularly pleased, which I would like to stress, is that, under Measure 40, you are considering a simulation tool that allows persons with an IVT or an IT to assess the consequences of cumulation of their benefit and their working income. That is incredibly much demand and need, so here too the question of what the timing is. At the end there are also various measures on the acquisition of additional insights from surveys and data. That seems to me to be a priority. If an evidence-based policy is to be pursued, it is very important and more research needs to be done. In particular, insight into the influx of persons with an IVT should help to strengthen their position, particularly in order to know how to prevent them from entering a welfare system, such as the IVT, and what lessons we can draw from the outflux from the IVT. I really hope that those data will provide more insight. Madam Secretary, it is clear that you are very ambitious, and that is a credit to you. Strong coordination will be needed. Come on, you want to send a clear message that we are a partner in implementing this action plan. What is more, we are going to take concrete action, because an action plan requires action. That is why today, together with Mr Vandenbroucke, I am presenting a legislative proposal to meet a measure in your plan, in particular measure 71, to examine the possibility of replacing the current age limit of 65 years for recognition as a person with disabilities at tax level with, for example, a criterion of care need. If you are receiving parkinson today at the age of 64 or 70, this will determine the tax relief for the person with the disability or for the person with whom you are dependent. That is actually absurd, and the Council of State has confirmed it. Above all, it is very unjust. We hope to be able to move things around with this bill. We are also responding to one of your measures. I would like to thank you for this comprehensive work, you are not avoiding the challenges. I had two more questions on the agenda today. You can give me those answers in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic573x.u14	I'm pretty puzzled about the exercise we're doing today. The interventions have been lengthy and I am not sure that we are able to concentrate so much. We will therefore come back to an order of business in a future meeting because I believe we need to review the working method for this kind of exercise because I am sure we are able to make a little shorter interventions, out of respect also for the latter. We feel impatience and fatigue, which is not pleasant for anyone. On the other hand, Madam Minister, I give you the floor to make it clear that there are a lot of technical questions. What will not be answered now will be the subject of a next oral or written question session, with the minister coming every third Wednesday of the month.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic573x.u15	Madam President, I thank all colleagues. These are always very complicated exercises. Having been a parliamentarian for 20 years, I know that we all want to say everything we want to say, but above all, what is necessary to say. I will surely disappoint you all because I will not answer all the questions, especially since many of them are precise and technical. I don't think that was the goal today. But it is up to you to organize your work. I come first to the general philosophy. I hear many of you are questioning the fact that there has been no consultation with the federated entities and that we are now coming up with a federal plan that has consequences for federated entities. In fact, there were two options. Either we were waiting for the major consultations with the federated entities, we put responsibility on everyone and the federal would be included in a CIM with a few items on the agenda. Either a federal plan was developed with all ministers with specific competencies, each minister having a clear responsibility and being able to consider concrete measures at his or her level. This is the option we have taken for the 2021-2024 plan. No one is responsible here around the table for having already lost a year, especially not the poor citizen but it is a reality. So it's shortened. It is a 2021-2024 plan of the federal government but of course, and I am responding to Mrs De Jonge, there are already contacts with the federated entities. I recall that the ICD has not been convened since 2013. We are working on an agenda and a common point to achieve the inter-federal plan 2021-2030, since in any case Europe and the United Nations are asking us to do so. So we have to work in this context. I'm also responding to the PTB. I am not going to solve the institutional problem with this plan. The latter is a responsibility of the federal government. I will obviously coordinate it and there will be a coordination cell. I am telling you at the outset, I have asked for additional resources for the coordination unit at federal level and for DGHAN at federal level because we know that since a number of governments and not just the previous one, there are savings on our administrations and files that are constantly increasing. In my departments, applications for persons with disabilities are constantly increasing and staff are constantly decreasing. As far as pensions are concerned, they are exactly the same. There is a problem of efficient and effective public services to beneficiaries that must be properly served. That is the objective of this plan. There is and will be negotiations with the federated entities, but I believe, as Minister of Handicap, that the federal government must shoulder its responsibilities! It is too easy to drown in an inter-federal plan. On the other hand, with regard to the important notions of accessibility and universality, priority and priority is given to working with the Conseil national supérieur de la Personne handicapée and Unia, because it is the law and the duty of the federal government, but we are also working with CAWAP because its members have the expertise and will also look for it in the various French-speaking, Dutch-speaking and Brussels-speaking associations, in order to arrive at a much more comprehensive approach. All these associations will be consulted, among other things, on the accessibility of federal buildings, administrations, museums and other places. We're actually going to look for expertise everywhere and we're not putting anyone on the side like I felt like I heard it today. On the subject of studies and research, we want to be ambitious, but it would be very modest to say to you and to all citizens that we will solve everything in three years and that our society will be perfect for people with disabilities. We lack a lot of data, a lot of statistics and a lot of studies to find out who these people are. There is also the invisible handicap. Some people do not want to define themselves as persons with disabilities. It would be very arrogant to say that we know everything and that we will solve everything without even trying to study, research and get the expertise where it is. When I had to file notes as part of the price of love and other things and I had to ask my administration for figures and statistics, there was no data. We're here today. All social security administrations must work together to achieve clear vision and data. This government is obviously not going to solve everything and it is likely to prepare a work to move forward in this Plan until 2030. The world doesn't stop in 2024. The government will be working on the development of this plan until 2030, but research, analysis and evaluation are still to continue. More specifically, Mrs Van Peel, you have spoken of very clear measures which concern me more than my colleagues. You are right: provisions 8 and 9 are fulfilled, but they appear as they are in the overall plan. A lot of questions have been asked about the integration allowance. It is obvious that it should be entirely distinct and universal. The aim is to maintain it in all circumstances. It is always taken into account in the calculation of the RIS - which is not an income, but a compensation for costs. We want to immunize him at an annual cost of 203,000 euros. It's not huge. I am referring to the category covered by measure 10. Questions were asked about maintaining the allowance at all times. We have also done this exercise. The cost of a universal allowance would be EUR 1 000 097 000. Then there are all the possibilities. There is the maintenance of the allocation for derived rights and we are working on different tracks. There is therefore a margin between the ideal of universal allocation and the possibility of not losing its derived rights. We will work on different fiscal scenarios, also on our own skills. As regards the extension of the exemptions provided for in the GRAPA calculation, there is a problem with Flanders since the care budget is not currently exempt in Flanders. At the Inter-Ministerial Conference, we will try to ensure that the rules are identical, in particular for the inclusion of different regional supports in disability policies, for example for the double taxation of children with disabilities. Minister Van Peteghem will do an important work on taxation to work on issues where the considerations are not identical. As a result, families lose assistance to which they are entitled. I come to the definition of the person with a disability. It is not unique at Belgian level. Definitions differ according to the regions of the country. And we want to work on a single definition of disability within the Belgian framework, so that there is no distortion in this area. Let us address the issue of the price of work and the problem of work in general. The goal is for people who can and want to work to have access to work. Surveys indicate that many people with disabilities would like to work, but they are not allowed to do so because of the lack of reasonable accommodation. As you pointed out, we must first sweep outside our door, that is to say, in front of the federal public service. For weeks, we have had bilateral contacts with Minister Petra De Sutter, who is willing to do so, as well as with all jurisdictions, as we have worked directly with all federal governments. This will result in a structural and very concrete plan, either with the CARPH or with budgets for reasonable accommodation, at home or within our administrations. With equal skills, priority will be given to persons with disabilities. This is important to us. In relation to the private sector, Mr Delizée has, I think, quoted the French law. We have worked with the Minister of Labour and the social partners are not very much in favour of a law that sanctions. Because in France, there are sanctions. This approach was not echoed by the social partners. We are going to adopt positive incentives rather than sanctions. They will be addressed to the private sector. Compared to the price of labor, you know I've been negotiating around the table for a long time. There are 30 million euros in the budget. They're here. I have already told you this by answering many questions, and we are working very hard with the Higher Council, which has given many opinions on the price of work: we are working on a considerable increase in the first exempt income, to exempt the vast majority of workers and their incomes, except those who really earn a lot. But we don't want the double penalty. I forgot all the names and I apologize. Care must be taken to ensure that those who lose their jobs, who go less well at times – some disabilities have less well-off phases – and who find themselves unemployed, do not lose their benefits completely either. Otherwise, it's double trouble. We are therefore seeking this balance, which is difficult to pass on to certain partners, I say, but the sector is asking for this balance. So I really hope to be able to come by November with a proposal that values as much as possible those who work but do not punish those who are not lucky enough to have a job or who have lost it. It is a matter of finding a balance which is proposed by the Higher Council. Ms Lanjri quoted Ms Muylle's proposal. We're working on it. We are trying to move forward, but here too there is a problem of discrimination with pilot projects which pose a bit of a problem to the sectors directly. With respect to the EDC card, it is true that a huge amount of work remains to be done with the federated entities with which we are in constant consultation. We agree that the website is abominable. Because of this site, the map is not deployed. There is therefore a complete reform of the website for this map and, as you have seen, there will be an enlargement in relation to the police or other things. This is an important tool that we want to develop. This is how I get to computerization. We are determined not to have the bug that some ministers have experienced a few years ago in terms of the payment of allowances. The implementation of a new software, TRIA, is very complicated. I'm not used to saying everything's fine when it's not. It's very complicated. We have weekly meetings with the services. We put the actors directly around the table, the Conseil Supérieur, but it's very complicated. If you wish, I will one day take stock of TRIA. I will come back to you, Madam President, because I think it will be worth making a global point. On the other hand, with regard to the work with DG People with Disabilities, which, as many have said, is also important, we have an excellent programme for a better efficiency and effectiveness of our DG. There is also the recruitment of a new director, since the old one is leaving. The assessment was launched in full transparency. There are applications. It's in progress. We must therefore really make a leap forward in relation to the services provided to the citizens. As for multidisciplinary evaluation, as you said, there are already pilot experiments. I look around all the regional offices in relation to DG People with Disabilities. Both physicians and all staff are positive about this multidisciplinary evaluation. It will therefore be implemented in 2022. This is necessary and all tradesmen find it positive and important (doctors, social workers, psychologists, ergologists, logopedes - already engaged). Today, we have a huge rate of recourse to DG Han's decisions! Why? Because their decisions were made on the basis of file analyses because of Covid. People are frustrated. With people with disabilities, whether there is recognition or not, personal contact is necessary, because one must be able to explain. The approach must also be multidisciplinary. This is fundamental, and it will be implemented. As far as doctors are concerned, we will review their salaries. We are in total shortage of doctors to assess disabilities. They will be paid on time and no longer by file, otherwise the files are scrambled. Another issue mentioned for its importance is the non-take-up. We will work on the basis of rights automation. Do you know that a person who has lost both arms must come back to be assessed as if they were going to push back? This type of re-evaluation of files must also be stopped, which means that the 1987 Act must be modernised. As far as accessibility and mobility are concerned, I know that SNCB is frustrated with the slow progress of projects. I have seen a very proactive and proactive minister, but as part of the recovery plan, there will be a large budget. We asked for special attention to mobility for the adaptation of docks etc. Therefore, on a whole series of questions, I refer you to the relevant ministers and I have said so from the start. The measures come from the ministers and their administrations. They are on the ground and the measurements come from their reflections. How will coordination be done? Today, they have already received sheets to fill out because we ask what is to be given priority or not. Priority actions have been taken in agreement with the sector. It is the sector that believes that these are priority actions and for the ad hoc ministers too. Now, they have been asked to fill out fact sheets to see the timing and to inform them, if this requires a budget, of their budgetary requests under Budget 2022, then 2023 and so on. That's an important point. It must also be said that account must be taken of all the different statutes and situations. There's the mandistreaming going through the plan. It will now be mandatory under federal policies. That seems fundamental to us. For example, for interpreters, there is only one francophone university that does it, Saint-Louis, UCL. It's a real job in short supply, but we can't learn it right now. As far as close caregivers are concerned, we will extend the leave of close caregivers to six months because we think it is essential. In fact, close caregivers will be taken into account in pensions since it is a pension axis. Indeed, there is not enough reception for people with disabilities, be it children, adults, or the elderly. As far as recovery or sustainable development plans are concerned, the Higher Council is now involved in this framework directly with Thomas Dermine and Zakia Khattabi on the one hand, since you know that she is also working on the evaluation of the recovery plan. Mr Bombled, I answered you. There will obviously be a coordination cell. As far as Scancars are concerned, we have already had several meetings with the Regions and the Unions of cities and municipalities. Scan cars are very complicated and it generates a lot of legitimate complaints from people with disabilities. We work with them and we hope to table a proposal even outside the plan to try to get to something that corresponds to what people with disabilities ask while knowing that the card is not linked to a car. That's the problem. The card can be linked to several cars in case of transport in different cars. Scan cars are linked to municipalities or regions and vehicles run throughout Belgium and abroad. We are working with the Regions on this complex issue, outside the plan. Parking card management needs to be reviewed. For example, parking cards for deceased persons are not recovered. There's a lot of abuse. At the same time, there are not enough seats. A data flow analysis work is required. Why is the parking card unlimited? Because the Branch no longer had the means to control, every year or every two years, that the person was still disabled, that she had not moved, that she had not left the country. The administration did not have the means to do so. The question of the means of public administration therefore arises. They must be efficient. Besides that, we have to save money. But making savings on staff at all times has an impact on the effectiveness of our policies. As far as contingency plans are concerned, work is urgent. The three ministers I have mentioned to you will therefore act by giving priority to this matter. With regard to the return to work, Frank Vandenbroucke drew up a comprehensive plan, which was submitted to the government. So you can ask him about it. I imagine you'll have a debate with him. Sixty coordinators are already planned for persons with disabilities and persons with disabilities. With regard to addressing violence, you know that all violence, including violence against women, is a major concern of this Government. You heard Minister Van Quickenborne. This will be addressed in the comprehensive plan to combat violence. On the other hand, there are more specific things, such as the scene of whispering by interpreters at the level of justice, complaints at the police level, the training of our agents in relation to this public that is not going to complain, because he knows that we are not going to understand it, that it will not be properly received, etc. This is a work that is being pursued in collaboration with Mr. Van Quickenborne. As for the social tariff, Mrs Van der Straeten has been working since the first day to solve the problem of the delay in the social tariff for gas and electricity. The best thing we have found technically is to establish a retroactive premium and not to apply the retroactivity of the social tariff. Thus, a person who submitted an application on 1 January, and who was only eligible on 8 August, will be awarded a premium for the previous 8 months, as the data flow with the Economy and Energy FPS cannot be managed. It's very complicated, but we're going to implement a solution. The Minister will request a budget for this purpose when the 2022 budget is being prepared. We can do it! If there is a global point that I have not mentioned, you will be able to return to it! Tell me!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic573x.u16	Colleagues, do you feel like you went around the question? We will be able to reread our notes and redraft any questions that may remain outstanding during the next oral question-and-answer sessions. Do you agree? [[Oui]]
