ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic473x.u1	Madam President, Minister, on March 10, I was asking you here about the limitations on the number of people in places of worship. You announced to me that the 15-person rule would be relaxed in May, the modalities of which had yet to be determined. Since then, the situation has not changed. It was announced that, as early as 8 May, a maximum of 50 persons could be present at the same time during the collective practice of worship, provided that these activities are organized outside the places planned for this purpose. As far as churches, temples, synagogues or mosques are concerned, it is always gauges limited to 15 people that are applicable. I tell you again, the faithful find it difficult to understand this measure. If, as a first step, the urgency could have justified this unique choice, the duration of the crisis should have allowed this to be refined. I regret that, almost two months after asking my last question, no adaptation could have taken place, to allow a number of practitioners according to the available surface, which seems to me to be a rule of common sense. My questions are therefore relatively simple. Have you had any discussions on the subject in recent hours with actors in the field or with experts? If so, what has emerged? Is this rule, in your opinion, still justified in its present state? What are the prospects for this? Would it not be time, in your opinion, to review the rule and adapt it to the reality of the ground?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic473x.u2	Colleagues, I apologize for my delay, due to the Codeco meeting. Mr De Maegd, I will therefore reply directly with the latest news on this subject. As I told you on March 10, freedom of religion is a very important constitutional right that I respect very much. For this reason, my office and I have had several meetings with religious representatives over the past few months. Since your last question, meetings have been held on March 10 and April 23, 2021. In addition, a "full air" plan and an interior plan have been drawn up for the cults in close collaboration with the representatives of the cults. My firm is therefore in constant dialogue with them. The "full air" plan and the interior plan have been forwarded for advice to the Office of the Commissioner Corona and, in the meantime, the "full air" plan has already been approved by the Office of the Commissioner. Following the meeting of the Concertation Committee on 23 April 2021, the collective exercise of outdoor worship has been possible since last Saturday with a maximum of 50 people and taking into account the security provisions contained in the "full air" plan. Inside, the rule of 15 people is still in force, but on 23 April 2021 the Concertation Committee also decided that from June onwards, to the extent that the epidemiological situation permits, depending on the pressure on hospitals and the progress of the vaccination campaign, the collective exercise of worship inside will be relaxed. Five minutes ago, Mr. De Maegd, we decided that, as early as June 9, 2021, a maximum of 100 people could sit inside and 200 people outside. These figures could be revised upwards if the rules of the Covid Infrastructure Risk Model (CIRM) are respected and, as of July 1st, increase to 200 people indoors and 400 people outdoors. Here too, if we follow the rules of the CIRM, we could increase to 2,000 or even 2,500 people outside. Ladies and gentlemen, the balance between freedom of religion on the one hand and public health on the other is very fragile. During this Corona crisis, we asked the entire population, including believers, for a great deal of patience. Thanks to the vaccination campaign, we can now relax the rules step by step. I will of course continue the dialogue on this subject with the representatives of the cults.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic473x.u3	Minister, thank you for your answer. I want to say for June 9th, better late than never. Two months ago, I urged you to find a solution as soon as possible, once the situation would allow it to give practitioners the opportunity to practice their worship. You announced some relaxation in May. In fact, as you said, the situation has changed positively. The "full air" plan has come into effect and offices, as you recalled, can currently be held in front of 50 people but only outside. The rule, forgive me for saying it, is at best incomprehensible or at worst absurd. This rule of 15 faithful in churches, temples, synagogues, mosques, whatever the size of the building, is obviously absurd. I hear that the prospects are finally announced for 9 June. I am satisfied that the rule adopted which authorized as many faithful in a small church as in a large cathedral is finally adapted to the evolution of the situation, but I confess to you to be surprised at the slowness of action for such a measure of common sense. Indeed, we are at the beginning of May and we will still have to wait until 9 June. As you know, I am deeply committed to freedoms while paying particular attention – and you are right on this point – to the responsibilities they entail in relation to the health situation. Freedom of worship is paramount. It is also enshrined in the Constitution. Today, I think, there are possibilities to make this freedom of worship without endangering health security. Minister, I am counting on you when there is a new crisis or a future wave, alas, still possible. Consideration should be given to adapting decisions to the available square metres. I hope then that I can count on you for a question that seems to me to be a matter of simple common sense.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic473x.u4	Madam President, Minister, the news of recent weeks, whether it is violence in Liège or in Brussels in particular, confirms a little more the need and urgency to set up the urban violence task force announced last March, in order to identify further concrete measures on this problem. At the meeting of this committee on 31 March, I was already asking you about the establishment of this task force. Minister, have the work on this task force started? If so, could you give me the timetable for the various work of the Committee? What is the list of actors or guests who will be able to bring their added value to the work of this task force?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic473x.u5	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as I have already explained, preparations are under way. They relate in particular to the delimitation of the themes, as well as to the speakers and speakers we will invite. Practical preparation, of course, is also an important element. I am consulting with my colleague from the Interior in this regard. On behalf of Justice, I have appointed the Department of Criminal Policy. The multitude of topics proposed will probably force us to organize more than one day. In addition to a number of actors from the police, justice and administrative authorities, I think it is appropriate to involve the members of the Justice and Interior Commissions. Together with the Department of the Interior, we will determine the dates, i.e. when this conference will take place. The conferences will take place in June, but I will of course keep you informed of these developments.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic473x.u6	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. I note that you are in full preparation, and that is good news. I had already mentioned a few guests, and I understand very well that it will probably be necessary to segment the various works. On the other hand, I really encourage you to move forward on this, because the acts of violence are repeated on a regular basis. If we want to remain credible in the eyes of the police and the citizens, we must also be able to provide concrete answers through a timetable which, once communicated, will be properly monitored.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic473x.u7	Minister, I have some questions about this child pornography network, which was established in 2019 and counted as many as 400,000 members. Four German men were arrested, a gruesome production area was dismantled. That German proactive approach has saved a lot of children from the hands of perpetrators. What information can you share with us about the investigation? Were the Belgian services involved in the action? Has there been an active sharing of information with Belgium? Are there any people among the suspects or victims in this large-scale investigation who are staying in our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic473x.u8	Mrs. Gabriels, the federal prosecutor gave me the following intel. The investigation in Germany focused in a first phase on three operators of the Boystown platform and one user of that platform. There are no Belgian suspects involved in the operation of the platform. In a second phase of the investigation, in cooperation with Europol and PACT Child Abuse, the data seized will be analysed with a view to identifying the victims and offenders. Belgium is chairing this multidisciplinary platform on child abuse.. It is also at that stage that Belgium is involved. The central DJ SOC Child Abuse department of the federal police is the point of contact. In consultation with the federal prosecutor, the necessary investigations will be launched if Belgian perpetrators and victims are identified. I cannot anticipate whether there are Belgians among the members of the platform, but statistically, of course, that opportunity is real. This file is again an illustration of what we would dare to call 'the new way of working' of police and justice: data-driven and therefore almost by definition international, with the involvement of several countries involved. Such investigations are ideally suited to demonstrate the added value of European institutions such as Europol and Eurojust. They coordinate, they are the crossroads through which the information passes and is distributed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic473x.u9	Thank you for your reply, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic473x.u10	Mr. Secretary, you know I've been stuck in this file. I therefore have a few questions regarding the search of Avrox. What kind of parish is investigating this? How many searches were carried out? In which countries did these searches take place? Who led the investigation? Were people robbed of their freedom, questioned or extradited to our country? Were any cases confiscated? Was money seized, too? Is it true that Eurojust coordinates this action? Was Interpol also involved in this investigation? There is also an international dimension, particularly with regard to Mauritius. Has the parquet had contact with the services in that country, since it served as a previous reference when ordering the mouth masks? Do you think it is possible that the Belgian State was fooled in this case? Shouldn't people have been more careful when working with an unknown mailbox company? Would you have handled things differently if you had been a minister at the time? Finally, what did you do with your mouth mask from Avrox?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic473x.u11	Mr Freilich, I know you are very concerned about this dossier, but you will not be surprised that I do not have to answer your questions about the investigation. There is, after all, a judicial investigation that is conducted as it should be, with respect for the secret of the investigation. I'm assuming with you that, in consultation with the investigating judge, the court will communicate about this in due course. After all, it is not up to the Minister to do so. It is still too early to reach conclusions, for example as to whether or not the Belgian State has been conned and has itself shown the necessary caution. However, I am quite confident that the court and the police will do their utmost to get the bottom of this case and that suspects of crime will therefore be brought to justice. As far as your last question is concerned, at that time, I was mayor of the city centre of Kortrijk. Together with the 13 cities and municipalities of South West Flanders, we took an initiative to provide mouth masks for the citizens on our territory.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic473x.u12	Madam President, Minister, it is clear to me that if you want to understand what is going on, you must read the newspaper. We have already read in the press that several people were arrested and that there were searches in Portugal, France and Luxembourg. I just hope that the court will not bring these journalists in for the announcement of these cases. I would also like to remind you of the following. When you were a Member of Parliament yourself, you mentioned this as a matter of no concern to anyone. It was about a rear-guard fight specific to politics. Today it is clear that this is not the case and that it is tax money from Belgians that was spent in a deal with a lot of questions. I, too, look forward to the further investigation of the court.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic473x.u13	Minister, there has been a social debate for some time about the commemoration on 8 May of the end of the Second World War in Europe, in my opinion, a valid debate. Last week, Professor Koen Aerts stressed that there is still much to be done about the historical awareness of a number of facts in the 20th century. I would therefore like to draw your attention to the problem of access to the judicial files relating to the repression period in our country. Such access is currently regulated by circular No. 22/2013. I also sent a written question to your predecessor a few months ago, who replied that there were no problems in this area. That's not right at all. In recent years, representatives from the academic world and the summit of the Cegesoma National Archives have advocated greater accessibility in various free galleries. At present, only people on a very limited list of academic institutions are given access to open research, as well as family members who can demonstrate direct involvement. That's far too restrictive. In the Netherlands, people are much more free to deal with these archives and any righteous researcher with good intentions who can submit a serious motivation can have access. Can the government think about that, too? I seek no honor and glory. The problem is serious and many hemologists would be grateful to you for a solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic473x.u14	Mr Ravyts, first of all, it is important for the reasons behind the circular No. 22/2013 before considering the possibility of facilitating access to old repressive records. In principle, the old files of the disbanded military courts still have the same status as an ordinary criminal record. This means that they are basically subject to the same rules. What are those rules? Where a person wishes to obtain access to or a copy of a criminal record, such access should be sought from the competent court in the case of an investigation pursuant to Article 21a of the Code of Criminal Procedure, or from a investigating court in the case of a judicial investigation pursuant to Article 61ter of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The circular No. 22/2013 seeks to water down the normal rules on access to criminal records for the old repressive archives. On the basis of the circular, the prosecutors have specific rules enabling them to refuse or grant applications for access to those files. In this way, the condition of being a direct interested party is watered down. As you say, exceptions are also made for certain institutions and organisations, which make it easier for them to request access. Think of the student who writes a master's test or a professor who conducts a thorough study. The letter gives a very clear picture of the reasoning behind the relaxation compared to a current criminal case, and I quote: 'For the sake of the age of these cases, which currently have a particular historical interest, a certain form of flexibility has been indicated when communicating the complete file or certain documents contained in them. An excessively rigid or complete refusal would distort the events of that time, because the information on them would be incomplete or not objective or would give the impression that there is a desire to withhold incriminating information from the public authorities." On the other hand, the other position is also reflected in the circular. I quote again: 'It is also a fact that these files relate to persons who, moreover, have the same status as their relatives who may exercise their right to confidentiality of procedural documents in respect of third parties which are not parties to the proceedings nor have the necessary capacity to be aware of them'. The circular also points to the dangers if ill-thought-out access to the judicial archives is granted. He tries to maintain a good balance between the two arguments. Of course, I am prepared to enter into the debate and see where more room for manoeuvre could be offered to historians, but making the files accessible to everyone, as in normal archives, does not seem to me to be an option. As far as your second question is concerned, the military archives must be handled very carefully. We must not put them on the same footing as any archives. I understand the question of academics and officials of the National Archives very well. They ask for the files to be accessible to everyone, because they are a source of historical knowledge. However, account must also be taken of the views of the persons behind the files: old family suffering or painful elements for relatives can be raised again if old files are made public unbridled. There are also many questions that need to be considered before we make the dossiers accessible to everyone. What is to be done with the files for which a person has now been restored, the files in which a final judgment has never been reached or the files in which a decision has been taken to stay proceedings? Will we also make them public or will we restrict access to the judgments and judgments, which constitute a final judgment? The right to private life must also be protected at all times for old cases. In short, I conclude that a wide opening up of the repressive archives raises many questions. Widening access through a possible modification of the circular should first be thoroughly discussed with historians and other specialists in this area. We also need to make a broader analysis of the current state of European and national legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic473x.u15	Thank you, Minister. I'm a little optimistic when I hear you anyway. I am grateful for your broad answer, because you leave the door ajar. I can tell you that next month, De Leiegouw will publish a serious scientific work on this issue in your city of Kortrijk. I am happy with the opening and I am always willing to explain this to your cabinet. I do not seek honour and glory; I would be very pleased if a more flexible arrangement were to be drawn up for local historical circles, for example.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic473x.u16	Minister, the Court of First Instance in Limburg has postponed three cases of fraud involving Flemish green electricity certificates for an amount of no less than EUR 13 million indefinitely due to staff shortages. We have to say that this is really hallucinating. According to Flemish Minister for Energy and Justice, Zuhal Demir, since the reduction of subsidies for solar panels, fraud with green electricity certificates has been regularly detected. This includes the counterfeiting of inspection reports and the anti-dating of invoices. I think we agree that such practices are unacceptable. But they are encouraged if the fraudsters realize that they will not be prosecuted. A firm lick-on-piece policy could be the only message here. But then, of course, the courts must be sufficiently equipped to deal with this. Enough staff is an absolute necessity. I assume, Minister, that you are aware of the problem, given the great interest in this issue in the media. Is it true that sending to the role is the result of a shortage of staff? Will you take initiatives to ensure that this dossier is re-established as a priority? Do you have any knowledge of any other files that have been postponed indefinitely due to staff shortages in this court? In that case, I would have liked to have more explanation. What initiatives have you taken to supplement the framework in the face of urgency?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic473x.u17	Mr Minister, my question is in line with that of the previous speaker. We have also taken note of the hallucinatory report that, because of a long staff shortage, the court of first instance in Limburg has indeed removed three fraud cases. She's prioritizing sex cases and defendants in remand. I understand that, but I really don't understand that a court of law feels compelled to make that choice. What is also beyond comprehension is that a fraud case of no less than EUR 13 million, which is not cat piss, cannot be dealt with because of a staff shortage. Let us be honest, if these funds are collected, there is already, so to speak, a payback effect, which could already allow the staff to be paid. You are also counting on the proceeds from the files and the recovery of amounts from fraud and fines in the format of your budget. It will be completely Kafkaian if we know that a first judge has already left there two years ago and has not yet been replaced, unless only a few days ago one of the five vacant places has been filled. As far as I know, no procedure has yet been initiated to recruit people. This recruitment procedure also lasts another seven months. There are two important victims. The first victim is Justice itself, as the credibility of justice is being dented again. An important second victim is the taxpayer. Each Fleming sees the amount of its energy bill rise again because there has been fraud with those green electricity certificates. All that has to be paid for. The fraudsters get the signal that it doesn't matter whether or not they get caught, as there is no prosecution. That might make extra fraud possible. I find it particularly painful that you are already taking into account the proceeds from the fight against fraud in your budget. Mr. Secretary, what about the recruitment? Is it true that there has been a shortage of staff for so long? Will you complete the framework of the Limburg court? What's the timing for that? How many seats for magistrates haven't been filled out today? Maybe there are other places that still have functions open, although I hope not. How will you fill out these places and what is the timing for that? Is the recruitment of magistrates taking into account the fact that they not only cost money, but in many cases also generate money, which has a recouping effect in certain types of court cases, such as those mentioned?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic473x.u18	Madam President, I will not repeat myself. I refer to the text of my question as tabled. In this I ask about the cause of the staff shortage and the plan of action for the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic473x.u19	I received several questions concerning the postponement of fraud cases in Limburg and the staff shortage raised. The initial communication that cases of major fraud would be removed from the role and sine that would be postponed makes your questions more appropriate. A lot of wrong things were said and communicated in the media last week. Hopefully that wasn't conscious. I shall begin with the problem of staff shortages. The number of magistrates provided for in each court is established in legal frameworks. These frameworks were historically established in 1953 on the basis of then unclear criteria. As a result of the savings made by the previous governments, including by the government to which your party was a member, Mrs De Wit, these frameworks have not been fully completed for years. The magistrates of Limburg have been suggesting for years that their legal framework is insufficient. It is true that Limburg is poorly distributed if the size of the framework is calculated in terms of population. The fact was also well known to the previous governments. In my policy statement I indicated that this government wants to move away from these legal frameworks. It is a step forward that we are pursuing an establishment plan that meets the real needs of the area. I will shortly take the first legislative initiatives in this House to deal more flexibly with the rigid legal frameworks. Once the workload measurement of the Colleges is complete, the appropriate allocation of funds can be made on the basis of allocation models. The legal framework in Limburg has 40 places. There are currently 36 places filled, one of which is commissioned by the criminal court. There are therefore five magistrates too short compared to the framework. It is certainly not the case, as suggested in Mrs De Wit's question, that no vacancies have been declared open in Limburg in recent years. In 2019, five new judges were appointed to the courts in Limburg. In 2020 there were two, for three vacancies. In Limburg, there were often insufficient candidates for enough vacancies in the past, so the places were not filled. By the way, there is currently 1 vacancy that was published on Friday 7 May 2021. How many vacancies for which courts are declared open is a decision of the College of the courts and courts. Colleagues, in the run-up to self-determination, my predecessor has already introduced the possibility that the Colleges, within the budgets released for the judicial system, can draw up a job vacancy plan themselves. This will enable them to take into account local needs and available candidates. That practice, which prepares the Colleges for their future tasks when they really will work autonomously, I have continued. It is therefore up to the Colleges to determine in concrete terms whether vacancies are declared open in Limburg and, if so, how many. Because every open declaration of a place involves a budget being allocated to it, and because the non-filling of the place may make the budget under-utilized, I understand that there is caution in publishing several posts at the same time at the same court. Which brings me to the next problem. There aren't enough candidate magistrates. This problem arises in Limburg, but also elsewhere in the country. Colleagues, I am sure you have already noticed that, together with my policy cell, I am talking to magistrates and candidate magistrates, that we are working on a fully-fledged statute and that together with the CRHs, we are creating a positive picture of this unmistakably beautiful profession. The government has made extra budget for the Justice Department. There's a positive vibe that attracts new people. The evidence of this is the increase in the number of registrations for both the legal internship and the professional examination. Unfortunately, due to the corona crisis, the Supreme Court of Justice had to postpone the examination of professional qualifications, the written examination until June and the oral examination until September. That is very unfortunate, because the recruitment reserve of candidates who passed the exam has almost dried up. Finally, I'm going into last week's incident. When many cases are brought to court at the same time that cannot be dealt with at the same time, the choice must be made. For this reason, a file with multiple arrests has been given priority over the fraud files. Contrary to what was in the newspaper, those fraud files have not been removed. I hope that paper straightens that out, too. They will be dealt with on 5 and 12 November of this year. There were already several contacts with the cabinet of the fellow minister to explain the situation. I am not aware whether and which dossiers may need to be postponed in the future due to these capacity problems. Tackling fraud cases is one of the focus of my policy plan. There is a budget to make additional recruitments in 2022. Mr De Wit, you point out that recruitment to deal with fraud is self-deserving. I understand what you mean, but you are confusing two budgetary items here. The revenue from tackling tax fraud does not go back to the budget of the Justice Department, but to the government. I understand from my colleague that these will be returned to the users, in other words that this will result in a lower invoice for the users. Saying that this money goes to the Justice Department and that it can be paid by magistrates is very short. So I cannot focus more on the fight against fraud than allowed within the agreed appropriations. Ladies and gentlemen, let us also be clear. There must be defendants on trial in these fraud files. They have not yet been convicted, because I also read that some say that these people are fraudsters. I suggest we wait until the judge has spoken. It's not politicians who judge people, it's judges who do. The defendants must now stand trial thanks to the Limburg police and the Limburg parquet that conducted this investigation. It is now pretending that nothing is happening, EUR 13 million, but it is thanks to the work of the police and the judiciary that these people are being prosecuted and brought to justice in November. Colleagues, by investing extra in justice and at the same time making the profession of magistrate more attractive, we will turn the tide. However, turning the tanker takes time and I count on your patience and cooperation to bring this particular task to a successful conclusion.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic473x.u20	Minister, I have another question. You say that legal steps will soon be taken to deal more flexibly with the current rigid regime. What does the term'soon' mean, because that is of course very relative? Since your arrival, you have, quite rightly, made a plea to make the profession of magistrate more attractive. In the meantime, we are six months ahead and I hope that you will take very active steps in this respect. You said there were five vacancies open in the court of Limburg. We must also bear in mind that large fraud cases often involve very complex cases which require specialization. I hope that this will be taken into account in the recruitment of the new people or, where appropriate, the transfer of staff within the court. We all agree that it is unacceptable that a fraud case of this magnitude should be EUR 30 million. I'm glad it wasn't sent to the part, like I said. The newspaper said it was taken off the stage, which is a completely different concept. However, it was postponed until 5 and 13 November. That is only an initial examination, and I hope that we have already reached conclusions, because if that is not the case, the dossier will not be dealt with on 5 and 13 November. We must also be aware that this is only a treatment at first instance and that we are almost sure that there will be an appeal and possibly a cassation appeal. The file will therefore take a certain time before there is a final ruling. I hope that last week's manoeuvre will not lead to the statute of limitations in the long term. After all, we must send out a very clear signal, namely that suspects charged with serious fraud are being dealt with very severely, because such practices are absolutely unacceptable.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic473x.u21	Minister, you may, of course, refer to the past in any reply you give, but that will not be possible anymore. You have been a minister since 2 October and have been responsible for some time now. So that umbrella will gradually disappear, but as long as you enjoy opening it, you must keep doing so. It doesn't really change things much either. You said that a vacancy was opened last week and five places had not been filled. So those other places are still not filled out. I very much hope that they will be able to fill in quickly, because I have certainly never opposed giving justice the resources that are coming to it and to ensure that they are used correctly, where they are needed. Although you suggested the opposite, I certainly do not wish to undermine the hard work of the police and investigators. It is their credit that the findings have been made and the case has been opened. I think it is important that this case can also be followed up at the place where it should be, namely in court. Moreover, this should preferably be done as soon as possible. You replied that this would happen in November, and I welcome that. We can follow up on that and let the Justice Department continue her work. Finally, you also said that I was somewhat wealthy because it would return to the inhabitants. In this case, it may be. You should check your budget because in your policy paper you have made the fight against fraud a priority. However, this money does not flow to the Justice Department, it ends up in a general pot. I have read your budget very carefully, and I had to note that you have been somewhat wealthy here and there in terms of certain revenue. We certainly need to look into that further, because if the money does not flow to the Justice Department, then you will have to get the money for all the things you want to accomplish elsewhere.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic473x.u22	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your reply. This shows that we must be careful with such communication and with great headlines. It is good that you are clarifying these questions today. Indeed, the frameworks have not been fully completed anywhere. That's not a problem that arose yesterday. It is a good thing that you are taking the initiative to change these rigid frameworks and update the Staff Regulations. More responsibility for the College in the context of autonomous management can only be positive. Finally, it is perfectly logical within our justice system that detentions should take precedence. However, you have confirmed today that this dossier has not been removed and that it can be dealt with in November, which is positive. I therefore hope, together with you, that this can be corrected in relation to the outside world and that the file will have its necessary follow-up.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic473x.u23	Mr Dillen had asked another question. We're working on a preliminary draft law to change that. I hope that the draft will be able to come to the Committee on Justice before the summer, but that will of course depend on the opinions we receive. So it will certainly be for this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic473x.u24	Madam President, Minister, Article 13 of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities enshrines the right of access to justice for such persons. It provides for two guarantees to ensure that this right is respected: on the one hand, the establishment of reasonable and procedural arrangements for the benefit of persons with disabilities; and on the other hand, the training of professionals in this field. It is important to remember that this Convention was ratified by Belgium in 2009 and is therefore of immediate application. Despite this, the 2019 Unia report as well as reports made during the covid crisis point to the fact that Belgium still has shortcomings in this area. In practice, many difficulties are reported with respect to the lack of reasonable accommodation, particularly in civil and criminal proceedings where communication tools are restricted. In this respect, there is a significant lack of sworn interpreters in the sign language of Belgium, which has the effect of restricting the rights of deaf people, who are already a particularly vulnerable minority. Autism, on the other hand, does not escape this reality from the lack of reasonable accommodation in the proceedings. They would need, for example, a resource person to accompany them and translate their words in front of the judge. As far as professional training is concerned, I have had the opportunity to meet with representatives of the ASBL Droit, Handicap and Inclusion, which aims to make the right accessible to persons with disabilities and their families. They told me that in almost all of their cases they found that there was a lack of training for different professionals in the field of disability. Minister, are measures planned to address the shortage of sign language interpreters? Are specific measures planned or will they be planned for autistic people? Do you intend to develop mandatory disability training for persons working in the administration of justice? Have you appointed a disability focal point in your administration? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic473x.u25	Dear colleague, with regard to your first question, I intend to make justice more accessible and more humane, as you know. Our courts are often historic buildings whose access to persons with disabilities is not easy. With regard to the construction and renovation of such buildings, I keep in mind the principle of universal design, i.e. access for everyone, including persons with disabilities. Access to justice for the deaf and the hard of hearing is more like language support. Therefore, in the preparation of national registers of sworn translators and interpreters and lawyers, sign language interpreters were explicitly sought to include them in these registers. Let me turn to your second question. The hearings are open to the public. It is therefore possible to come with an accompanying person at any time. As far as your third question is concerned, there is currently no mandatory disability training. However, the Federal Training Institute (IFA) offers the training "Managing Diversity in a Recruitment and Selection Context". FPS Justice employees have the opportunity to take this training during their working hours. In addition, the Department of Justice strives to follow, as far as possible, the recommendations of the Accompanying Commission for the Recruitment of Persons with Disabilities in the Federal Public Administration (CARPH) as reflected in the annual report. As far as your last question is concerned, a point of contact for disability has indeed been designated within the Justice FPS, both at the administrative and political level. This information has been transmitted to the SPF Social Security, which operates as a Belgian coordination mechanism, in accordance with the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic473x.u26	Minister, thank you for your answers. With regard to the first aspect, namely access to buildings, I am well aware that these buildings are usually old buildings and that their development depends on the competence of your colleague Mathieu Michel, in charge of the Régie des bâtiments. I will not fail to question him on this subject, and I note in particular that you have planned an active search for sign language interpreters. As far as autism is concerned, everyone is, of course, welcome. My question was about the possibility of making available to autistic persons accompanying persons dependent on the FPS Justice. I also hear your answer regarding training and the disability contact point, and I thank you for that. My questions are obviously related to the recent inclusion of a new Article 22ter in our Constitution, which cannot remain a symbolic step forward. For this reason, I will be careful that we collectively fulfil this framework and that we give substance and substance to these commitments in favour of the rights of persons with disabilities.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic473x.u27	Minister, article 27 of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities enshrines the right to work for persons with disabilities, including "the opportunity to earn a living by performing work freely chosen or accepted in a labour market and in an open workplace, promoting inclusion and accessible to persons with disabilities". To this end, States shall take appropriate measures to "employ persons with disabilities in the public sector" and "ensure that reasonable accommodation is provided in the workplace for persons with disabilities". Under Belgian law, the Royal Decree of 5 March 2007 organising the recruitment of persons with disabilities at the federal level provides for a minimum employment rate of 3%. Minister, has the FPS Justice reached this 3% rate? Does it employ persons with disabilities? If so, how many are they? What is their employment rate? What information do they receive about the reasonable accommodation they can request? Finally, what positive actions does the FPS Justice undertake to engage people with disabilities?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic473x.u28	Ms Hugon, first of all, the FPS Justice currently accounts for 1.04% of people who are recognized as having a disability. For your information, I would add that their overall employment rate in federal services is 1.22%. The Department of Justice must therefore make further progress in this regard. Only the functions covered by the Royal Decree of 6 October 2005, which includes the 3% target, are covered. Consequently, this Royal Decree does not apply to the staff of the clerks and prosecutors, the operational services of the State Security, those of the penal institutions, or to staff with a judicial mandate. In 2017, the memo validated by the Steering Committee regarding the Deferral Request Process was released and communicated. These workplace adjustments may be physical or immaterial. This year, this process will again be analysed and adapted, if necessary, while being accompanied by a communication to our employees. For your second question on the recruitment of employees with disabilities, we are working with Selor. The selection services systematically consult the double lists of candidates with disabilities. Upon entry into service, employees with disabilities may complete a specific form and submit a reasonable accommodation request. However, the best thing to do, on the one hand, is of course to allow more people with disabilities to fully integrate justice and, on the other hand, to do everything possible to enable them to hold a full position. This is the best way to create a positive effect. In my office, the employment rate for persons with disabilities is currently 1.7%. We are not yet 3 per cent, but this is in particular better than the administration of justice and the federal government.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic473x.u29	Minister, thank you for these answers. I do note that there is room for improvement in the employment rate of persons with disabilities in the administration of justice. I agree with you. The priority is certainly to allow more people with disabilities to integrate this administration. So I can only encourage you to do everything you can to make these people feel welcome to your administration. Why not launch specific communication campaigns on the employment of these people? I would also like to congratulate you on the progress that has been made in your office. I can only encourage you to continue this momentum.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic473x.u30	Minister, in The Last Hour of May 4, 2021, we learned the story of Aziz, a former STIB driver who was the victim of an industrial accident in 1999. At the age of 72, this worker denounces the fact that, after 22 years of proceedings, his case, though simple, is still not settled by the courts. According to his lawyer, this is certainly one of the records in terms of length of proceedings. Yet, Aziz worked hard throughout his career. He joined STIB in 1972 and did everything: he drove trams, buses, metros. He was first hit by a car in 1989. In 1994, he suffered further injuries, this time as a result of armed assault. On 15 January 1999 the accident occurred which will lead to the case for which I am questioning you. A motorist burns a red light and hits his front vehicle. This accident costs him his job and transforms him forever. The file is therefore quite clear. Yet, for 22 years, the insurer has challenged, forcing Aziz to resort to justice. This worker has been waiting 22 years for justice! Minister, when we talk about the judiciary or the backlog, it may seem abstract. But behind the jargon and the numbers hide very real human beings. They really suffer from the cuts in justice, your refusal to seriously refinance it, your refusal, despite a conviction, to recruit the missing judges. Minister, what is the current status of the appeal proceedings against the judgment which, in March 2020, condemned the state to enforce judicial officials? You were to inform us about the refinancing of the justice system to the tune of 125 million for the month of March last. Can you finally answer us about the allocation of this amount, in accordance with your budgetary obligations? Finally, what do you have to answer to this worker who suffers from the austerity policies of your predecessors?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic473x.u31	Dear colleague, the Belgian State brought an action against the judgment of 13 March 2020. The appeal procedure is under way. The legal frameworks have not been fully filled due to cuts made by previous governments. In the meantime, they do not even reflect actual needs on the ground. We are currently waiting for the results of measuring the workload of the Colleges in order to be able to objective the needs in terms of staff within each entity. Executives include only pre-existing magistrates and judicial personnel. Today, the courts and prosecutors' offices are strengthened by prosecutors' lawyers: referenda, criminologists not included among the executives. At the same time, many magistrates will also be recruited. On Friday, 7 May, 35 judicial posts were declared vacant. Candidates have 20 days to apply. We will use the supplementary budget to carry out a large number of recruitments. Secondly, if I did not want to inform you last March, it is because the refinancing exercise did not take place at the same time as the budgetary control originally planned. The appropriations for the strengthening of the justice system are included in an interdepartmental provision and will only be added to the regular appropriations when the initial appropriation 2022 is established. I can confirm, however, that the first part of this year's supplementary budget has been approved and that the second part will be decided in the coming weeks. Thirdly, it is clear that an essential pillar of the democratic rule of law is a properly functioning judicial system. Our goal is to achieve more efficient and effective justice. To this end, I want to modernise the work processes: to focus on digitisation, but also to measure the distribution of the workload and, of course, to make additional investments. As you know, we have also invested a great deal in the justice system.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic473x.u32	Minister, I am glad to hear you say that positions are declared vacant and that there is a willingness to recruit. I think it's more than necessary. At this level, it is a good thing because the reality is serious and catastrophic. On the one hand, we have the objective of digitalisation and digitisation and, on the other, the strengthening of judicial personnel. It's a good first step. I hope that you will run counter to the policy of your predecessors, which was a policy of austerity, because it is more of an investment policy that we need for this public service. Having said that, we have not received any response in respect of the 125 million. We cannot therefore anticipate the department to which this budget will be allocated. I hope that this will be clarified as soon as possible in order to be able to consider your project with regard to the financing of our justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic473x.u33	Questions Nos 55017461C and 55017462C by Mr Moutquin were deferred.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic473x.u34	Minister, the mayor of Saint-Trond acknowledged that she had been vaccinated prematurely. She also most likely used her political power to facilitate the vaccination of her relatives. A person working at the immunization centre, presumably a volunteer, made screenshots of the registration list to report to the press this suspicion of abuse. The mayor and the vaccination centre, a body that is not without a political colour, have filed a complaint for violation of medical confidentiality. On 6 May, the journalist concerned and the vaccination centre were searched to establish the source. The journalist invoked his code of ethics not to reveal his source. The Flemish Association of Journalists (VVJ) recalled the Law of 7 April 2005 on the Protection of the Journalistic Right of Access to Sources, which prohibits this type of judicial investigation. The association announced that it would contact the political and judicial authorities. Minister, there seems to be a tension between medical secrecy and the general interest, namely the issue of the abuse of political power. However, except for the date of vaccination, no information was provided. What is your opinion on the balance between medical secrecy and the public interest in this matter? According to the information we have, this medical secret was not really violated. Do you think that this complaint and the subsequent judicial investigation can be considered reprisals against the whistleblower? Did the VVJ also contact you? Do you think the law on the confidentiality of journalistic sources has been violated? Do you think your services acted correctly in this case? You announced in your government statement and policy document that whistleblowers should have a legal status that protects them. When are you going to act on this? In the context of the protection of whistleblowers that you are considering setting up, would the judges declare complaints against this whistleblower inadmissible? Do you want legal protection that, in this case, would prevent the mayor from filing a complaint against this journalist?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic473x.u35	Minister, on 6 May 2021 a search took place with journalist Dirk Selis of the local Trudocs news website. The purpose of this search was to find out the source of the reporter's vaccination of the mayor of St.Truiden. In addition, the journalist's computer and cell phone were checked. Since the submission of my question, several things have been reviewed in a short space of time. I am thinking here of the conviction of VRT journalist Bart Aerts. The Law of 7 April 2005 on the protection of journalistic sources provides that journalists have the right to conceal their sources of information and cannot be forced to release their sources of information which may, inter alia, disclose the identity of their informant, the nature or origin of the information. In this context, an investigation measure is only possible if it prevents offences that pose a serious threat to the physical integrity of one or more persons and if a number of additional conditions have been met. Today, Mr Pol Deltour, President of the Flemish Association for Journalists, also pointed out in Het Laatste Nieuws and De Morgen that with the condemnation of Bart Aerts there is a risk that sources of fear will pass less information on to journalists. For example, important information may not flow anymore. He fears that we will end up in a society where only spokesmen and PR machines dictate what journalists are allowed to write and what is not, and that the freedom of the press and the right to information will be put under such pressure. Are you also concerned, like Mr Deltour, about what we can see as a trend in view of the successive facts in this respect in such a short period of time? Can you tell us more about the circumstances and the exact purpose of the search? If it was intended to find out the source, do you find that it is in accordance with the law of 7 April 2005? I realize that these are not obvious questions for you. Is it true that neither the Supreme Court of Justice nor the Council of Journalism is competent to investigate such matters? If that's the case, do you consider that to be a flaw, given the great importance of the source secret? What will you do to protect the source secret of journalists?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic473x.u36	Madam President, I thank colleagues for their interesting, relevant and important questions. First of all, we are talking about an ongoing investigation, on which I cannot therefore give my opinion. I must therefore remain guilty of the questions relating to specific research, as it should be. The court does its work in full independence and with respect for the secret of the investigation. Just like you, I've been informed of the case through the press. Like you, I have heard from the press that a search would have happened with a journalist, which, to say the least, is not an everyday practice in our rule of law. Mr Boukili, with regard to your questions on whistleblowers, I can inform you of the following. The issue of the protection of whistleblowers is addressed in the context of the transposition of the 2016 Directive for the protection of whistleblowers. Many departments are concerned with this protection, both at the federal level and at the level of the federated entities. At the federal level, my colleague De Sutter, Minister for the Civil Service, is responsible for coordinating transposition for the public sector, while the SPF Economy is responsible for coordinating the private sector. This is my colleague Dermagne. My department is participating in the ongoing discussions. In that regard, it was important to achieve a balanced arrangement. I do not have to comment on the issue of the protection of whistleblowers provided for by the Flemish Authority, nor on how it applies. The future protection of whistleblowers against reprisals will be fully effective once Belgium has transposed the Directive. According to the Court, in criminal matters criminal responsibility continues to be governed by the applicable national law. Alerters shall not be liable for obtaining or accessing information that is publicly reported or disclosed, provided that such obtaining or access is not an autonomous criminal offence. In addition to the reply I have just given on the criminal aspects, I can tell you that Article 21 of the directive does not provide for the inadmissibility of liability proceedings against whistleblowers for the alerts they have brought, but rather a reversal of the burden of proof. In other words, it is up to the person who took the injurious action to establish that this measure was warranted. In addition, Mr. Boukili, the new draft Code of Criminal Procedure also provides filters for the civil action complaint. As far as the questions of source secrecy are concerned, first of all by Mr Segers, you will understand that I cannot answer hypothetical questions. In any case, the legal framework in the law of 7 April 2005 on the protection of journalistic sources is clear. It allows journalists to do their work as they should in a democratic rule of law: in full freedom and without risk of having to give up their sources, unless in very exceptional circumstances. The law clearly defines who and what is under source secrecy and under which exceptional circumstances journalists can be obliged to release their sources. This is always done on the basis of a strictly defined procedure, including a preliminary judicial review. The law therefore put an end to the possibility of prosecuting journalists for stealing embezzled or stolen documents and also excludes prosecution in the event of accessory to breach of professional secrecy by third parties when journalists exercise their right to conceal their sources of information. The legal framework thus provides a high level of protection. Everyone must stick to it, of course, including the judiciary. After all, these are laws that we have passed. Thanks to the separation of powers, it is clear who controls what, but also who makes and approves the laws. The Supreme Court of Justice has certain powers of audit and control, but of course it is not a professional or supervisory body for individual cases. I am prepared to enter into dialogue with those involved in order to find a solution to possible problems arising from the implementation of the legal framework. The professional association of journalists informed me that the 2005 law lacks sanction mechanisms if the journalist's source secret is violated. As Minister of Justice, I will engage in dialogue with the journalists' associations. The invitation to do so is now out. The extent to which the media can do their work undisturbed is, after all, a measure of the quality of the democratic rule of law. The investigation in question is conducted by the investigating judge following a complaint with bourgeois parties. As a result of the regulation of the administration of justice, the legality of the investigations carried out by the investigating judge, in particular the search of the journalist, will be assessed. The prosecution will take appropriate action, in all objectivity and with the application of the applicable law.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic473x.u37	Minister, as you say, the job of journalist means that a journalist can express himself freely and do his work freely without being disturbed. It is fundamental for a democracy. This is something we care about, to ensure the safety of whistleblowers. I think that, in this case, the least thing, and the communal majority of Saint-Trond demands it, is that the mayor withdraw her complaint. Indeed, the journalist did only his job. As your party is in this majority, I hope you will touch a word with your party colleagues in Saint-Trond. Minister, the situation with regard to whistleblowers is generally worrying. This is not an isolated case. Mr. Segers talked about it. The VRT journalist, Mr. Bart Aerts, was convicted in particular because he highlighted a certain influence of socially well-positioned families on the justice system. Given what the whistleblowers are going through today, the legislation we have is not enough. Every means must be put in place to ensure that they are protected to the maximum extent possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic473x.u38	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Of course, I'm glad you're very fond of the source secret, which I also assumed. I am also very pleased with your announcement that you will enter into dialogue. I understand, of course, how difficult or impossible it is for you to comment on specific issues. However, I am concerned about what seems to be a trend. I'm guessing you're worried about that, too. I do not need to convince you, but the freedom of the press and the right to information are fundamental to our democracy. It is clear that the source secrecy of journalists plays an essential role in this. The question arises as to whether we do not therefore need additional protection mechanisms, without me being able today to define exactly what they are supposed to be. I tend to accept the wisdom of justice as often as possible, but I can't keep a secret that I'm really worried. I'll let the answer settle for a while, but I'll be sure to come back to you later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic473x.u39	Madam President, the total price of the renewal of the website was EUR 25,712,50, including VAT. This included a migration from Drupal 7 to Drupal 8, a graphical update of the CSS HTML teaming, i.e. color, font, background, style elements, adding new functionalities such as inpage tabs, a jumplink box on the right side of the page, a photo gallery on all content types and multiple file upload. The logo is designed internally by the graphic designer of the policy cell. No additional budget was therefore required for its development. No additional budgets are required for the renewal operation. These are updates of the existing communication channels, products and templates on which the new logo is gradually introduced. The old stationery will be exhausted for reasons of durability before the new models are used. The roll-out is phased out. The full renewal operation for digital carriers will be completed in spring-summer 2021. So this is the Internet and social media. The digital carriers under the management of partners will be before the summer of 2021. These are applications and internet portals, the Belgian Official Journal and traffic fines. Other carriers will be completed in quarter three and four of this year. This is about legal documents, stationery, working documents and so on. Finally, there will be the gradual replacement of the existing stock with new products. The timing depends on the demand. This is about pressure, promotional products, signage, vehicles at the rhythm of the regular renewal of the fleet, and also the uniform changes on the rhythm of the regular renewal of the stock.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic473x.u40	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic473x.u41	Mrs Bury, thank you for your questions. The case was seriously delayed by the procedural steps taken by the parties in the main proceedings and also by the lockdown. Those are factors the D.A. has no control over. On 26 November 2019, the case was able to refer this person under the ties, but an appeal was brought by the bourgeois party. Freedom under conditions was the result of the decision of the Board of Indictment of 17 July 2020. The new facts came to light after the expiry of the terms and conditions and could not therefore have been prevented by the conditions. The defendant entered a new relationship immediately after his release and committed the psychic violence behind closed doors. The conditions came to an end on 17 October 2020. The file was opened before the Chief Justice on 6 January 2021 and the case will be dealt with on Wednesday 12 May 2021. Parquet and police responded immediately when they became aware of possible new facts. They also followed up on the situation, which eventually led to the new arrest of the suspect on 9 March of this year. The factors followed up on reports of intra-family violence, follow-up victim and suspect were correctly addressed. The rapid presentation of the new facts and the nagging attitude towards the new partner, a particularly vulnerable, impressionable woman, have prevented the possible escalation of physical violence. This concrete case shows that the structured approach to intra-family violence works in practice, including in particularly complex situations. That brings me to your second question. It is up to the investigating judge or the investigating courts to release someone or not during the investigation. If this is linked to conditions, the follow-up to those conditions is either a task for the police or a task for the courthouse. As you know, negative conditions are controlled by the police and positive by the courthouse. There are two reservations about the judgment of the magistrate. First of all... In the various arrondissements there are all kinds of methods of risk assessment that a magistrate can take into consideration when making a decision. Secondly, under the law of 31 July 2020, every magistrate is obliged to follow training on intra-family and sexual violence. The first of the three modules is currently organised by the Institute for Judicial Training. Modules 2 and 3 take place after the summer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic473x.u42	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You say there's been an incident, the A.I. has decided to release him, the facts are from after. In fact, everything worked perfectly, you say, because that man was arrested again. The follow-up and the report have been done correctly. The facts of which the fresh wife has fallen victim are horrific. You say it works, but that man wasn't removed from society. I also know that I'm not allowed to ask questions about personal files. Hence my second question, which was much more general. What about the unsub counseling? It is known that these perpetrators are incorrigible and that they have a short fuse and that they can go crazy at any moment. What do you propose to do to ensure that a parole without a follow-up can no longer happen? I did not receive an answer to that question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic473x.u43	Minister, on 24 March last, the cooperation agreement between the federal level and the Länder was published on the transmission of data on the maintenance of quarantine and the testing of returning travellers. As a result, it was indicated that more checks would be carried out to verify that those travellers were effectively subjected to the mandatory quarantine and testing. With the extended weekend on the doorstep and in view of the relaxations that are on the way, it seems to me that more and more people are thinking about making a non-essential journey, although this is still not recommended. Moreover, there is the threat of the Indian variant. There is no doubt that everything possible must be done to keep that variant out as much as possible, especially now that the figures are moving in the right direction. During the Christmas holidays, according to my data, only 37% of travellers would have been tested on their return to Belgium. It is clear that such a percentage will never be sufficient to prevent new variants. In this connection, I have the following questions for you. Since the start of the cooperation agreement, how many fines have been paid to travellers who do not comply with their conditions? In the period January-March, too few returning travellers were tested, as I said. Has the publication of this cooperation agreement had any effect? Do you have eyes on it or have more people been tested since?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic473x.u44	Mrs Gabriels, the cooperation agreement you mention contains a dual form of enforcement: the maintenance of compulsory quarantine and the enforcement of compulsory testing. On the first part, the quarantine, the federated entities, in cooperation with local authorities, first take on a sensitising role. Returned travellers are called or visited by city services or municipal staff. People are reminded of the importance of the mandatory quarantine. This clinging manner seems to have an effect. Only when there are indications or suspicions that a person does not comply with the mandatory quarantine and may thereby pose a risk to public health will the data be passed on to the local police for further control and enforcement purposes. The police then vouch for an additional contact and for the possible preparation of a report. In addition, there is the second part, the enforcement of mandatory testing. On the basis of specific data from the PLF form, a list of persons is passed on to the police for control. This list contains the names of travellers who have not been tested on arrival in Belgium. Of course, there is a minimum margin of error, which is mostly due to the CCPC code that was not deactivated or because some mistakenly assume that when they went abroad under a negative test, this negative test also applies in our country. I would like to stress once again that, with some exceptions, everyone must be tested on arrival in Belgium, even if they had a negative test result abroad. I would also like to confirm that everything possible is being done to reduce this margin of error even further. The police then carry out random checks on the basis of the above list and draw up a report on positive findings. The number of minutes drawn up since the entry into force of the cooperation agreement for travellers who did not comply with these obligations is 1.371 minutes. I'm giving you a more detailed overview now. Number of minutes for non-compliance with the mandatory PLF: 831. Number of minutes for non-compliance with the test obligation: 277. Number of minutes for non-compliance with the mandatory submission of a negative test result: 155. Number of minutes for non-compliance with quarantine: 82. Number of minutes for non-compliance by the carrier with the control of the PLF: 21. Number of minutes for non-compliance by the carrier with the verification of a negative test result: 5. Then I come to your second question. The entry into force of the enforcement cooperation agreement has a positive impact on the number of people tested. Contrary to the 37 % on Christmas holidays, today I can report that 83 % will be tested. So that's more than a doubling. For example, you see the importance of good awareness and enforcement. This must also continue in order to further increase the percentages. It is one of the ways in which we can prevent the circulation of new variants in our country. I would like to take this opportunity to thank all the actors and colleagues involved in this enforcement chain for the great efforts that have been made in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic473x.u45	Madam President, Minister, you confirm that this clear communication and awareness has had a positive effect. It is also positive that in the meantime the lists are indeed being delivered to local authorities, although there is likely to be a difference in capacity between the different police areas, but this is certainly being addressed. I have a brief observation on that 82 minutes for non-compliance with the quarantine. This is probably the case, and you and your colleagues have already established this, because it is difficult for the police to determine whether the quarantine is being complied with, since it is still possible to do certain shopping during the quarantine. So it is not obvious, but the police are certainly doing their job, as a result of your initiative, to call and possibly go on the spot, which will certainly have an effect.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic473x.u46	Minister, on 6 April 2021, the European Court of Human Rights (ECHR) again condemned our country in "Venken et al. v. Belgium" concerning persons interned in the psychiatric annexes of prisons. This is an opportunity for me to take stock of the situation of internment in Belgium, with the government agreement setting ambitious targets in this area. This recent decision follows the pilot decision of 6 September 2016 which, in view of the disastrous conditions in the psychiatric annexes, had condemned Belgium to take systemic measures to put an end to it. Less than a month later, a new law on internment had entered into force, a new regime did not abolish psychiatric annexes, but was supposed to limit the stay to a few months. As we know, the reality did not follow, hence the new condemnation last month. Indeed, as noted by the International Prisons Observatory - OIP Belgium - more than four years after the implementation of the new regime, internees are still being held in psychiatric annex for several years without adequate treatment for their mental disorders and with a regime of detention roughly similar to that of a conventional convicted person, which is not at all appropriate since internees are often more agitated prisoners and their behaviour can lead to disciplinary sanctions that are sometimes very painful and only worsen their condition and agitation. Then we enter a vicious circle. In the Venken decision of 6 April 2021, the Court held that several internees had been subjected to inhuman treatment and unlawful detention while being held in psychiatric annexes without the prospect of being transferred to a specialized institution for several years. Minister, the government is planning to get all inmates out of jail. I know that this goal is important to you, but in the meantime I have a few questions to ask you. You were able to indicate that the number of internees was declining in the Belgian prison park. The latest report of DG PPE was published in 2017, which does not allow for the evolution of the figures. Is it expected that a DG PPE report will be published in 2021? Furthermore, may I ask you to provide me in writing, in accordance with our Rules of Procedure, with the figures of the evolution of internment and its distribution? What follow-up do you intend to make to this decision of the ECHR of 6 April 2021? In addition, interim orders, both in the first instance and on appeal, have found that the detention in prison of internees is unlawful. For example, an intern who has had his or her release revoked may not be detained for more than one month in an annex. However, it appears that the Public Prosecutor's Office enforces decisions on placement in EDS in the prison appendices. A complaint was filed by the League of Human Rights against the Belgian State for arbitrary detention. What solution do you envisage to put an end to these condemned practices? Are there any developments regarding the transfer of health care from inmates to the Public Health FPS? The report prepared by the Central Penitentiary Supervision Council (CCSP) in September 2020 concerning the Paifve Social Defence Institution pointed, inter alia, to the acute shortage of medical personnel. This was repeated to me by the staff members I was able to meet on the spot a few weeks ago. Minister, are there any prospects to remedy the situation? Finally, I am told that social defence sections could be built in some prisons, particularly in the psychiatric annexes in Saint-Gilles and Antwerp. If so, can you tell me where that is? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic473x.u47	Dear colleague, you have asked questions about the figures in particular. As you wish, I will send them to you in writing. Since we are in the logic of an oral question, I will limit myself to the answers without them. With regard to your first question, the Annual Report of the Directorate-General for Prisons (DG EPI) will now be replaced by a brochure giving a numerical view of Belgian prisons. The figures for 2018, 2019 and 2020 are expected to be published shortly on the Justice FPS website. I think it is useful to point out that the figures of internees detained in Belgian prisons in 2016 and 2019 have been communicated in response to the written question No 402 by Mrs Annick Ponthier. I will provide you with the figures from 2014 to 2020 in writing. On your second question, in 2019 and 2020, we counted the number of decisions rendered by the social welfare chambers in the first hearings of internees. A few months from the time of internment to this appearance at the first hearing, the figures provided do not correspond to the number of internments issued per year, but give an approximate view of them. Here too, I will provide you with the figures for the decisions of 2019 and 2020. Compared to the latest information published by the Criminal Policy Service (CPS), the number of internments pronounced over the past two years appears to be increasing. With regard to the distribution of persons interned by structure and sector, DG PPE does not have this information, but the data can be obtained through the files for which the social protection chambers have been seized. Here too, I will provide you with the figures for early December 2020. The third question is: what follow-up will you give to this judgment of the European Court of Justice? The government statement and my policy note underline the ambition to structurally strengthen medical services in prisons, both for prisoners and for internees. Recently, the Government has provided additional resources for this purpose as part of the structural refinancing of the Justice system. The strengthening of medical and paramedical teams in prisons in general, and in psychiatric services in particular, is at the top of my list of priority initiatives to be implemented. With regard to your fourth question, the problem is not related to a question of places. It is the law as it currently exists that poses a problem. If a person is re-incarcerated because of a clear danger to society and if the Social Welfare Chamber decides for an placement, but there is a waiting list, it is important that that person waits for a place to be available, while remaining incarcerated. Of course, the period concerned must be as short as possible, but it would be unusual for the arrested person to be released while the King's Prosecutor and the Social Welfare Chamber want her to be placed. Under such circumstances, an amendment to the Internment Act is currently under consideration to provide a legislative solution to this problem. For this group, additional guarantees are also provided, namely that the Social Welfare Chamber will always be informed when a person is placed in an annex, and that the file of the interned person will then be evaluated every three months. Let me turn to your fifth question. My colleague in charge of Public Health and I intend to continue with the transfer of health care. A meeting between the parties concerned is also planned at the end of this month. Before the end of the summer, we want to relaunch the steering group that carried out the preparatory work during the previous parliamentary term. We also want to launch one or two pilot projects again this year. Your sixth question concerns Paifve and the medical staff. I am able to inform you that four psychiatrists are present from Monday to Friday, and accessible by telephone for the rest of the time via an organized guard. They do more or less 52 hours a week and we will reach 60 hours in November. I'll give you the numbers later. With regard to your seventh question, the prisons in Bruges, Merksplas and Turnhout have for many years had a social defence section, for some people next to a psychiatric section. Since January 2019, a social defence section has also been established in Antwerp with a capacity of nine places for male internees, in particular to allow a better distribution of internees with serious aggressive problems between the various sections of the social defence. The creation of additional places, a type of social defence section, is indeed under consideration, but this depends on various aspects related to infrastructure, organisation and staff.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic473x.u48	Minister, thank you for these very comprehensive answers that I will not all pick up. I will look at all the information I have received in person. I note that the figures will now be published in a brochure. It is very important that they be made available to the public. The publication of the report has been communicated to me on several occasions by the actors in the sector I have met. Whether it's published in one way or another, it's a good thing. Mr Minister, in general, I think we share the desire for adequate and humane care for internees. Psychiatric annexes must be able to disappear and, in my view, the ideal would not only be to get these people out of prison, but in the long term to be able to create enough places so that they can integrate traditional care channels and benefit from the humane and adapted care they need.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic473x.u49	Minister, VZW De Huizen aims at small-scale, differentiated forms of custom detention that are better anchored and integrated into the social fabric. Following Mother's Day last Sunday, Vzw De Huizen makes a plea for small-scale detention homes, anchored in the neighborhood, for mothers in detention. It states that the exercise of the mother's role can have a positive effect on reintegration. In this way an answer can be given to that particular target group and the parent-child relationship can be placed at the centre again. Mr President, first of all, what is your position? What initiatives have been taken to create more small-scale detention homes for mothers? Secondly, are you aware of national or international scientific research into the positive impact of small-scale detention homes on mothers in detention? If so, what are the results? Thirdly, can you tell me how many children are currently living in prison with their mother? What's the age of those kids? How are children's rights protected? Do they get the opportunity to go to kindergarten when they're 2.5 years old? How is that organized? Fourthly, do you have any knowledge of the length of time spent in prison and of the facts for which the mothers have been convicted? Fifthly, how will the care of children be arranged when they have reached the age of three and in situations where they cannot be cared for by family or friends? Finally, can you tell me how many pregnant women are currently in prison? How will they be supervised and prepared for the situation of the baby, when they have to remain in detention themselves?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic473x.u50	Mrs Dillen, thank you for your questions. My predecessor initially created the transition houses. Masterplan 3 provided for two pilot projects to be launched from about 15 places each and then extended after a positive evaluation. As from 1 December this year, the provisions of the law on the external legal status of the convicted persons and, more specifically, the powers of the criminal enforcement judge will enter into force. From now on, therefore, prisoners will also be able to be effectively deprived of their freedom by prison sentences of up to three years. It is my ambition not only to allow the execution of these sentences to take place in our traditional prisons, but above all in smaller-scale detention homes and detention centres. This model of detention will make it possible to combat repeated crime more effectively by reducing the desocialising effects of traditional prisons. This concept will also be implemented step by step. At the outset, both initiatives addressed those sentenced to the general profile for which these establishments were established. As their capacity increases, we can think of transition homes as well as detention homes or centres of detention, which focus on more specific profiles. It is certainly possible to provide a transition home for women, with or without children. In addition, on the site of Haren's prison, outside the perimeter, there will be a number of small-scale departments, one of which is adapted to mother and child, and where detention conditions will be created that comply with the same principles of small scale and porosity. Small-scale detention homes are an interesting addition to existing capacity, but added value should not only be limited to mothers. There are few women who hold a child during detention. For other parents too, a transition house or a detention house is often an added value, because there can be contact with children in a much more domestic atmosphere. On 10 May 2021 there were four children in detention, two in Bruges and two in Berkendael. They are 2.5 16, 12 and 10 months old, respectively. On 23 May 2014, a protocol was concluded on the French-speaking side by the FPS Justice, the French Community and the Office de la Naissance de l'Enfance (ONE) to accompany the child, the inmate parent and the escort of pregnant detainees in the mother-child ward. This protocol sets out the principles to be met in the material and living conditions of the department and anchors the guidance of mother and child through the presence of assisting agencies in the department. On the Dutch side there is a good informal cooperation with Child and Family, in which the material living conditions and the well-being of the child are stated. The opportunity was examined to formalise this cooperation with the partners and also to conclude a protocol with the Flemish Community and Child and Family. I would also refer to my answer to the written question No. 119 by Mr Emir Kir. As far as your fourth question is concerned, there are currently four female prisoners with their children in our prisons. One inmate was sentenced to 27 years in prison for theft and manslaughter in order to facilitate the theft. A second was sentenced to 45 months for human trafficking, a third to 40 months for theft by force and gang formation, and a fourth was placed in custody for theft. As far as your fifth question is concerned, children are the responsibility of the Communities with regard to their care. The psychosocial service refers through and will establish contacts for care after the three years if necessary. It will be a placement with foster parents or in an institution, if necessary. Finally, two pregnant women are currently in Bruges prison. The supervision of pregnant women is a competence of the Communities. Moreover, a cooperation agreement on the perinatal period for women will soon be concluded in Brussels and Walloon prisons between the Directorate-General for Penitentiary Institutions, the Office de la Naissance et de l'Enfance and the reference materials.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic473x.u51	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive answer. Of course, it should not be the intention to organise only detention homes for mothers with children. That was not the intention of my question, which I specifically asked in response to De Huizen's plea on Mother's Day last Sunday 9 May 2021. It may be important to pay particular attention to this. You have answered my questions in great detail. However, I did not receive an answer to one question. You have given me a list of the age of the four children who are currently in prison. One child, a toddler, turns out to be two and a half years old. Is that kid gonna be able to go to kindergarten during the weekdays? That would be a relief for that child. I assume that it is not obvious to organise this in practice. Is there any mention of that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic473x.u52	Mrs Dillen, I did not give you that information. As you know, education depends on the Communities. I will not fail to find an answer to your question and to deliver it to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic473x.u53	Thank you, Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic473x.u54	Minister, at an interdepartmental conference on Monday, 19 April, the various health ministers gave their green light to the priority vaccination of prison staff and the most vulnerable prisoners. This will include staff in phase 1b – the vaccination of people over the age of 65 and high-risk patients – which is being deployed. As a reminder, this decision was taken following a notice of strike by the unions to require that prison officers and detainees be vaccinated as a matter of priority. The vaccination of prison staff was scheduled to begin on the week of 4 May. The first vaccines were to be administered in the vaccination centres of the prisons of Bruges and Lantin. Vaccination in other facilities will begin later. We learned in the press that vaccination centres will be set up in ten prisons, according to Kathleen Van De Vijver, spokesman for the prison administration. There are five centres in Flanders (Bruges, Ghent, Hasselt, Leuven and Merksplas) and five in Wallonia (Lantin, Andenne, Ittre, Marche-en-Famenne and Leuze-en-Hainaut). Minister, what exactly is the vaccination agenda for all prisons? Since May 4, how many agents have been vaccinated? What about the record for each prison? Can you provide us with an inventory by institution? Are all 10 immunization centres in place? In response to my written question of 1 April 2021, you indicate that: "Vaccination will be carried out by Empreva, the central unit of the joint prevention and protection service of certain federal public services, which carries out medical surveillance". Are these teams already deployed in the ten centres? Finally, how many vaccines from the federal stock were delivered to prisons?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic473x.u55	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I can confirm that ten vaccination centres have been set up, that the vaccination campaign started well on 4 May and that all the target groups will have received their two doses of vaccine by June. Last week, 1,330 vaccines were administered by Empreva teams in five immunization centres. This week, vaccinations will take place in the ten vaccination centres. To date, 2,184 doses have been delivered to prisons by the federal stock. In the written text of your question, you said that the notice had not been withdrawn, but you have just corrected that. I therefore confirm that the notice has been withdrawn and that we have received very positive comments from the unions as a result of our action.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic473x.u56	Minister, thank you for your answer. Indeed, I corrected in the oral because I learned this morning that the notice had been withdrawn. It is gratifying to note that the vaccination campaign is under way in prisons and will be completed by June. It was a need. I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate the trade unions and workers for having mobilized and won this fight for vaccination in prisons.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic473x.u57	Mrs Rohonyi, it is quite true that the function of judicial expert is no longer attractive to some of them who, in recent years, have withdrawn and are no longer available at all or only for a very specific type of expertise. The reasons are diverse. In addition to the too modest rate for those who have invested 12 years of their lives in their training, we note the difficulty of combining the judicial expertise of private patients, the overload of judicial missions, given the limited number of incoming colleagues still available and the slowing down of payments. I hope that the increase in the tariff will contribute indirectly to the solution of these problems, all in relation to the shortage of experts in all in our society. The Law of 10 April 2014 as amended by the Law of 19 April 2017 on the National Register of Judicial Experts and Translators was adapted by the Law of 5 May 2019. This Act amended section 29. Since this legislative amendment, all persons who meet the requirements for registration, with the exception of the certificate of legal knowledge, may apply for registration in the database, which was not permitted by the 2014 law, which limited registration to persons who had worked for the judicial authorities before 2016. The database of the National Register of Judicial Experts and Translators is being developed. It will soon allow those who so wish to apply directly for registration in the final register. In the meantime, people can always request and obtain their registration via the provisional database. Every effort has been made to facilitate the transition from the provisional database to the final database. Recent adaptations make this change of status easy now. In addition, lists have begun to be drawn up with individuals who have reported having obtained their legal knowledge certificate and who have obtained a training exemption. With the agreement of the parties concerned, we have started to submit these files to the Accreditation Commission for inclusion in the final register. About 140 expert files have already obtained a positive opinion from the Commission. The procedure for registration in the final register of such persons may be finalised before the major holidays. Various accreditation commissions have already been planned for the coming months. During this legislature, we invest a lot of money in the digital transformation of justice. In particular, we want to ensure that psychologists and forensic psychiatrists also have access to a digital file from their homes. This will significantly improve working conditions. As you know, another problem is that experts are not paid quickly enough. This problem is rather due to the organization of tax offices. We have addressed the lack of staff by providing for the necessary vacancies. An action plan has been developed. The Central Office of Justice Costs also provides assistance in problematic cases. Thus, we are also making efforts in this area. I will, of course, continue to see to it. This concludes my answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic473x.u58	Mr Minister, thank you for your very complete and quite satisfactory answer, I must say, since it finally confirms the ambition of your general policy note. You already announced your willingness to eliminate existing payment arrears and to avoid further arrears, to continue updating the tariff orders as well as to digitize our justice system. Now, I'm telling you, I'm still a little hungry. This is a commitment made by successive governments for many years. So I expected a lot more. For the rest, I'm satisfied with it. I'm waiting to see where these measures are going to lead us. In any case, this is really fundamental and you can count on our support. What is at stake here is really to provide these experts with acceptable working conditions that are optimal and worthy of the tasks entrusted to them today, but also simply to ensure that the people in question respect their rights and, in particular, the rights of the defence.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic473x.u59	Madam President, Mrs Rohonyi, I must answer your first two questions with a certain reluctance, since, as you know, teaching is a community competence. It is for the Communities to recognise schools and to organise their monitoring through the educational inspection services. Steiner schools are indeed establishments approved by the Communities. Between 2016 and 2021, the CIAOSN received 19 requests for information about them and that of anthroposophie. They dealt, among other things, with anthroposophies in general, with the educational vocation of schools – which was the prerogative of the French Community and its Dutch-speaking equivalent – and, more recently, with questions about the discourse on covid-19, wearing masks and vaccine. The CIAOSN shall follow up on all requests for information received by it and shall, where appropriate, prepare requests for information and alerts to the competent authorities. For your third question, if the Communities send me evidence that Steiner schools should be included in a global analysis of harmful sectarian organizations, we could consider it. However, my services tell me that, at first glance, there is no reason to do so at this time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic473x.u60	Minister, thank you for your answer. I understand that the Communities are competent with regard to the organisation of education and the recognition of certain schools. However, the federal authorities and, in this case, the judiciary remain competent to ensure compliance with our laws and, in particular, those that punish racism, xenophobia and negationism. However, these same laws may be violated by these schools, in any case, if the information published in the press is confirmed. As you pointed out, the federal government is also competent to draw up a list of sects active in our territory, especially when they target young children and involve schools that are supposed to promote openness to each other and block obscurantism – and certainly not become a propaganda channel. You recalled the role of the CIAOSN in this regard. This centre has had legal competence since the entry into force of the Act of 2 June 1998. As you said, this centre is competent to issue opinions or make recommendations, either on its own initiative or at the request of the government. I find that a proactive approach could be taken by the government, and I must admit that in this regard, given the legal competence of this centre, I understand only half – if not at all – your reluctance to do so. I do not think it is necessary to wait for worrying elements to be brought to your attention in order to act, knowing that there are enough elements in the press that may require a more in-depth investigation of these schools.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic473x.u61	Dear colleague, thank you for your question, which deserves our full attention. I have already had the opportunity to speak on this. I have good news. We are working very seriously on this. The situation has changed well. What has happened since then? My services carried out research through the national register, in order to obtain the names of persons born before 1928, still alive and reportedly sentenced to deprivation of civil and political rights, as were all convicted of acts of collaboration. Such a search resulted in a short list of 180 names, out of a total of 80,000 people initially. Justice has removed this list in order to avoid identifying individuals who would not be affected by the collaborative events. The list, once finalized, will then be forwarded to the German authorities, in accordance with point 2 of the well-known resolution, the only point that has been asked of the Court of Justice. For all the other points, I refer to my colleagues. I am therefore confident that we will soon be able to provide a concrete answer to this thorny issue, which has been going on for too long. A consultation meeting between my firm and the foreign affairs, finance and scientific policy offices has already taken place in early April. In forwarding the final list to the German authorities, I hope we will finally be able to know whether war pensions have been paid to these people. Good work has been done by the Office of the Attorney-General, which I would like to thank. We're almost there. It remains to be seen, of course, the final list, but also the answer that will come from Germany.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic473x.u62	Minister, thank you for your answer. I am all the more pleased with the fact that I asked the Secretary of State, Mr Dermine, this morning about another point in the motion for a resolution concerning the establishment of a scientific committee. Indeed, we must note that there was a blockage, particularly in the steps taken by your colleagues in Finance and External Relations. Here, however, we have a will, a demand that absolutely must be able to be met by the government. I am therefore pleased to see this active work undertaken by the Office of the Attorney-General. With 180 names, you don't look for a needle in a haystack anymore. We really have a much more precise job that can be done. I can only be satisfied with this because our will is to be able to put an end to this system by means of a political signal and active work, not because, with the passing time, the beneficiaries of this system are no longer alive. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that these pensions could be allocated not only to people who are still alive but also to their dependants, especially widows. This was also part of one of your answers. Widows are granted these pensions. It is therefore necessary to ensure that these persons can also be linked to the names on the list which will be communicated to the German authorities. For the rest, I sincerely thank you for your efforts.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic473x.u63	Dear colleague, as Minister of Justice, it is not for me to comment on an individual case. I have already said it several times! The separation of powers, guaranteed by our Constitution, is dear to me and I imagine that is also the case for you. Moreover, I am not familiar with this case, neither the context nor the facts nor the perpetrator nor the victims. Without this knowledge, I cannot express my opinion in a well-founded manner. With regard to your third question, again, I do not wish to comment on an individual case. I think that the best way to avoid this questioning is to act, as I intend to do, to enable any decision to be taken and implemented as quickly as possible. An offence deserves a reaction, but it is clear that for the good of all, every effort must be made to ensure that this reaction is swift. Only in this way can the work of the justice system contribute to a successful reintegration into our society. I won't say any more. This is an individual case and I cannot comment on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic473x.u64	Minister, thank you. The purpose of my question was by no means to agree on this particular matter. Maybe I should have put it another way. I wanted to hear you more broadly about the impact of the backlog on the rights of detainees and, in particular, their difficult reintegration, which is already so in normal times. The person who was the subject of this case was sentenced for acts of morality. In this regard, it seems to me very important to continue the reform of the sexual criminal law that you have undertaken. In addition to the penalties provided for in our new Criminal Code, it is important to ensure that these penalties are handed down in time, as soon as possible after the facts, both in terms of the educational aspect of the sentence for the perpetrator and of the remedial aspect that it represents for the victims. In addition, the question of the psychiatric follow-up of persons before sentencing, in the case of acts of morality, must also be addressed. All these important questions need to be answered.
