ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic384x.u1	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today there is a presentation on the use of the corona commission. This presentation may differ slightly from previous presentations in which sometimes very detailed calculations were made. Now we have included the figures by category, but all the detailed figures, as previously presented by the committees, are annexed. So you'll have it, too, or you've already been given it. So you can go through it now or later and then you have all the information. The purpose of this presentation is known to you. We are trying to inform Parliament in as transparent and detailed a way as possible about the use of the corona commission, in particular the 2020 commission in this presentation. This may be for many repetitions, but I will explain it again. The commission was raised four times last year, each by EUR 1 billion. Before that, there was no idea what expenditure would be financed. In 2021, it is my intention to increase the commission if we already have knowledge of the specific needs. By doing so, I try to inform Parliament transparently in advance and to involve it in the adjustment of the corona commission 2021. There was demand for this and we are therefore also responding to this. I'll probably be standing here soon to ask for the first adjustment. In 2020, in a first phase, the budget available mainly focused on the protection of the population, namely for the purchase of medical equipment, dissemination of information and support from the Crisis Centre. As the crisis progressed, funding was also made available for prevention and support. For example, mouth masks were made available to the population and there was additional support for the Food Bank. In the second half of 2020, specific attention was paid to supporting the economy and vulnerable groups, and testing. In the table in the presentation I tried to make an overview of expenditure by category. For example, we logically see that by far the majority of expenditure was spent on health care. Significant amounts were also made available for compensation and social benefits. With the following slides I'll give you some examples of the biggest expenditures by category. The first category is the general operation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic384x.u2	Madam Secretary of State, I'm going through your very interesting presentation, but I have to say that the screen has been printed very small. Can extra prints be made?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic384x.u3	I believe it will be forwarded to you. Can't we get it bigger on the screen? No? I'll try not to go too fast so you can follow everything. In general operation, the largest expenditure is EUR 9 million for the COVID-19 communication campaign, EUR 10 million for protection equipment in different departments, EUR 4 million for Fedasil, for monitoring the reception centres, additional maintenance and rental of additional containers, EUR 3 million for the testing platform and EUR 2.7 million for the coronacontact centre. Several departments have asked for additional staff to cope with the sudden increase in workload. I'll come back to that later. With the general investment we see 217,000 euros for the adaptation of the premises of the Crisis Centre, 160,000 euros for placing plexiglass in the different prisons and 138,000 euros for placing plexiglass in the FPS Finance Buildings. Furthermore, 3 million euros were invested in ICT development at RSZ and 682,000 euros in FPS Finance. Without these developments, the departments were unable to implement the government's support measures during this crisis. In addition, due to the mandatory telework, the necessary investments had to be made in additional ICT equipment. You will find more details in this slide and the attachment. A total of EUR 849 million was paid as compensatory aid. This includes a donation to SNCB and Infrabel, as well as a loan to Aviapartner and SN Brussels Airlines. EUR 167 million was also made available in the context of compensation for the end-of-year hospitality premium. For example, the payment of the end-of-year grant for 2020 was ensured for catering workers. In the case of social benefits, €92 million has been used for a covid bonus to citizens with an income guarantee for older people (IGO), an income replacement (IVT) or an integration meeting. EUR 112 million was allocated to the OMCWs as a subsidy for additional staff expenditure and EUR 23 million was allocated to the implementation of the increased benefits. Then I'll be in health care. As you know, EUR 200 million was made available to grant a premium to the care staff. In addition, 805 million euros were spent on protective equipment purchased by the government for hospitals. EUR 140 million was earmarked for testing. 117 million euros went to the RIZIV for the start-up of triage and purchasing centres. 199 million euros went to the home nurses who visited covid patients. EUR 374 million was spent on the reimbursement of the corona tests to citizens. 287 million euros went to the purchase of protective equipment by healthcare providers themselves, which is a refund through the RIZIV. The following category concerns the various categories. There we see EUR 110 million for the 12-way ticket at SNCB, which was donated to every Belgian. We also see EUR 3 million for clinical studies and research, and EUR 20 million for the infection control unit. On the next slide you can see that the totals are slightly different from what was on the previous slide. This has to do with the fact that these figures are from 31 January and the previous slides from a week earlier. Here you can see the overview of expenditure by department, both in commitment and in liquidation. A distinction was made between what was allocated through the distribution decision and what was already effectively committed and/or settled by the end of January. The difference lies among other things in the following: EUR 275 million for vaccinations, committed in 2020, but settled in 2021. These are the provisional amounts of 31 January, as I said. The departments have not yet confirmed all the amounts and therefore the final balance has not been fully settled. I mentioned it at the beginning: I would like to change the way I work for the corona commission for 2021. It is the intention to increase it whenever we have knowledge of the specific needs. As you could see in the figures presented, the commission for additional staff was also used in 2020. I believe that the corona commission is there to cover costs that are specifically linked to corona and are temporary in nature. Human resources aren't part of this for me. If there are specific requests, they will be submitted to the Council of Ministers and will then have to be decided, after which an adjustment to the budget will be submitted to Parliament. In this way, I am trying to be more transparent with regard to staff costs for the entire government and Parliament. Furthermore, in 2021 it will no longer be possible to recover specific costs for telework, such as the purchase of laptops or protective equipment for the departments, from the corona commission. Actually, my presentation ends here, but as I mentioned, there is a whole series of slides after this presentation on which you can find more detailed figures. I'm assuming my presentation is being sent around to everyone. This was an update of the corona commission for 2020, as well as a little explanation of how we intend to proceed in the future. I also received a question from Mrs Kathleen Depoorter. I don't know if I'm supposed to answer that question immediately? I shall have her put that question orally first. Then perhaps there will be other questions, but let us deal with them first.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic384x.u4	Madam Secretary of State, my question is much more detailed than what you have presented here. I would have liked to know for the first quarter of 2021 how much of the corona commission has already been spent, on which those funds have been spent and what remains. I also have a question about the vaccination campaign. We all know it doesn't work out the way it should. The funds have initially been agreed for six months, where we already know very well today that we will need a minimum of eight months for the vaccination campaign. How will you cope with this for the whole year 2021? What is the budget you expect? The scope of the management of the strategic stock decided on by the Council of Ministers is EUR 30 million invested in this year's corona commission. How will you include this in the budget for the rest of the legislature? I ask this not only with regard to the strategic stock, but also with regard to the rest of the consequences of the pandemic. We will probably be able to control the pandemic once the vaccination campaign is completed, but there will still be costs afterwards. How will you calculate it? Finally, you gave an interview in De Tijd, where you indicate that you want to save 40 million euros in healthcare. For this you refer to hospital funding and more specifically to the daily recordings. I would like to hear what you have to say about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic384x.u5	Madam President, I believe that a practical agreement should be made. We have now received a general explanation from Madam Secretary of State. An oral question by Mr Kathleen Depoorter, who has just been asked, was linked to the discussion. I actually tabled an oral question myself on 6 January, on which I was informed on 5 February that the answer to all my questions would follow today. That is why I assumed that my question would be included today. I have also retabled my question. In eMeeting, I do not see my question linked to the debate, but my question is noted on the application of the Chamber. However, the application is currently flat. We just got an e-mail about that. On the technical level, some things have gone wrong. As I submitted my questions on 6 January, I assume that my questions will also be answered. Madam President, are we going to have the answer to Mrs Depoorter's question first, or are you going to organise a first round of speakers?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic384x.u6	Mr Loones, we did not receive your question. There is indeed a technical problem with the Chamber's system at the moment. I think it would be better to hold a general discussion now. It is better to have a general discussion and the Secretary of State should answer questions first. This is a general exchange of views.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic384x.u7	Madam President, if I may, I would like to join. Mrs Depoter's questions mainly deal with the medical aspect. On 6 January, I submitted a whole series of questions. On 5 February it was replied that they would be answered today. They haven't been addressed yet. There has been a whole presentation of figures with a lot of attachments. That transparency is good, a bit in the style of your predecessor, Mr Clarinval, although you provide more details. That's definitely good. In my question I had asked for a number of figures per month. It is important not only to look at the final settlement, but for some files it is also important to know what was paid when. This is mainly about the medical aspect, but also about the communicative aspect. The presentation and annexes shall include the total cost of the communication campaigns conducted. It will not be specified when these costs are precisely incurred. That's kind of important to know. Did that happen in summer or not until autumn? I still find it strange that there is still no firm campaign for the Coronalert app. Last summer, that was the file. We definitely needed one of those apps for testing and tracing. The country was upside down. After a lot of pulling and dragging it it was eventually a federal jurisdiction and after the entire jurisdictional discussion that app has arrived. We haven't heard from it since. We are right in front of a reopening of society and the economy. Then I would expect that some things have happened around that app Coronalert. I assume that the preparation has been going on since at least the end of last year, or even earlier, and that there may be invoices. Can you give me more information about that? What about government communications? It is not just about the campaign '1 team of 11 million', which we now know has cost about EUR 3 million. It's a lot bigger. There is an amount of EUR 9 million. We would like to see that amount broken down. What campaigns have been conducted? Is there anything specific planned around the Coronalert app? Mrs Depoorter has talked extensively about medical expenses. When exactly were those vaccines paid for by the end of last year? Several questions have been tabled, so they will be answered later. We all remember the debate on the budget at the end of the year. Have the ordered vaccines also been effectively paid? It would be interesting to know how much was spent on this per month. I also asked for details about the Hello Belgium Railpass. I see once again the general amount of EUR 110 million mentioned here, and I therefore assume that it has been confirmed that this amount has been actually spent on it, so it has been effectively paid out. The explicit confirmation of that would be interesting. I will ask in the Mobility Committee exactly how many train passes are against that. It would be interesting to know whether we have financed train passes or SNCB. Did that happen in a ratio of 1 to 1? Has all this gone to Hello Belgium or has SNCB been given an extra dose in this way? I also asked for specifications for certain measures in the area of corona, such as quarantine leave. I note that those details are in the annex, which is, of course, good. However, one point that is not included in the annex is the whole discussion on government appropriations. The Wilmès government has stopped, the purple green government Vivaldi has started and the number of Cabinets has increased to 20. There was a lot of discussion at the time about its financing. We were the first to point out that there was no budget for the additional staff and ministers and that they would therefore have to work for at least two months free of charge. The reply was that the funding would be made through the commission. I have always called that scandalous because the commission was specifically earmarked to fight against corona, not to appoint larger cabinets. Your government then saw the light of day and a budget change was approved, so that the government appropriations would not have to be paid through the commission. However, it is still unclear what exactly happened at the time and I would like that clarification. Were these loans paid or not paid through the commission at any given time? The budget change, the change in the provisional twelfths, has been adopted effectively, but this happened post factum, after those cabinets were already running. How exactly did that happen? So far, my questions on the 2020 dossier. Allow me to say a few words about 2021. I very much welcome your commitment not to work with giant envelopes anymore. That is a big step forward, because last year it was 1 billion, then 2 billion, and finally we were 4 billion. It was only after that that we could find out exactly what amounts had been spent. There was very much power and influence in the executive and very little in the controlling legislative power. It is therefore a good thing that this practice is being adapted and that you are moving towards a practice in which file-by-file is to be defended on the Council of Ministers and you will come to Parliament in the event of budgetary consequences in order to have budgetary changes approved. This is a more cumbersome procedure, which will require additional efforts not only in terms of commitment but also in terms of time. On behalf of our group, I would like to make a personal commitment and I am available to conduct the debate properly and quickly if necessary. Your step must be answered by a step of Parliament, which must commit itself and make itself available in order, if urgent expenditure is to be incurred, to help it as a matter of urgency, although we know that there are some emergency margins through the commissions, which, however, exist only theoretically. After all, the commissions are already earmarked. They may not have to be paid immediately today, but they will have to be paid in the course of 2021. So there can be some spending, but not unlimited. In this respect, we are certainly available to accept your proposal with great optimism and to work with it. We have already done this in the past. In the case of bank guarantees, we in the Finance Committee managed to get a dossier through the committee and the plenary in one week to two weeks. We have shown that we can work quickly and efficiently in this area. That's the good point. There's still a point of doubt. We have already had part of the debate on it, but I will continue to repeat it. The current government continues to work with commissions, which involve substantial sums of money. At the same time, it states that the commissions are already earmarked, which is not budget-wise. If expenditure is intended for something, the government should also explicitly indicate it in the budget and allocate it explicitly. That is a general principle of sound budgetary policy. I know you agree with that, but you have inherited a government agreement in this area, but that should really change. During the previous talks, I noted that the commitment was made to conclude the debate on the allocation at the next budgetary control which is to come. Those are words that you yourself, as well as a number of trade ministers, have spoken. I remember, for example, that your colleague, Minister of Justice Van Quickenborne, said that at least EUR 250 million and a few more tens of millions were guaranteed for Justice. If that is true, that amount should be allocated to the appropriate budget line. I assume that the promises that were made at the time or the words that were put into the mouth will also be kept in budgetary control and that we will then approve a budget change here in Parliament, which will de facto mean that money now in the commission will be explicitly allocated to the posts on which promises have been made. There too it would be good to hear from you again that confirmation. The next point concerns the European pennies. There is the European Recovery Fund, there are the Brexit funds that are going to be allocated to a number of dossiers, but, as far as I know, we only see the raw envelopes of that. However, they will have to be used effectively. It would be interesting to hear the views of the Secretary of State on exactly how this will be done. Will there be some kind of pre-financing from the Belgian budget? De facto, this means that we have a somewhat larger deficit, to pick it up afterwards when the European money comes in. Those pennies will hopefully be there, but they won't be there tomorrow. What exactly are you going to do there? Will this happen with pre-financing via commissions or will this happen with the approach as you say, file by file, case by case, and budget change by budget change? We will then meet very regularly here in committee, I look forward to it. How exactly is that going to happen? That seems particularly interesting to us. I would also very much like to have a huge budget debate on the deficit, how we will do it, on new tax proposals that are in the papers today. The Minister of Pensions apparently intends to tax the second pension pillar. However, that goes beyond the scope of this sitting. With some reluctance, I confine myself to questions about the corona commission. The other debates will undoubtedly be held at length, possibly even tomorrow in plenary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic384x.u8	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, I thank you for your presentation, for the clarity of the documents you are sending us, for the transparency you have shown in relation to everything that has happened, and also for all the new developments for the provision of Corona 2021. It's really a great job because, as we know, the situation isn't easy. We came from a current business period, since the end of 2018, when the N-VA disconnected the plug. It was then necessary to act urgently in order to meet the first covid expenses. I would also like to point out that Minister Clarinval has also been part of this transparency process, as he has regularly reported on the situation. It was at that time that the question of the provision quickly arose and the government in day-to-day affairs felt that it was the easiest way to act, while being relatively transparent with Parliament. We were able to ask questions regularly about the financial situation of hospitals that was dramatic with the covid crisis. We have been able to benefit from a monitoring of the cost of the necessary social measures; I am thinking in particular of temporary unemployment, bridge law, etc. The cost of this crisis is heavy, both in terms of health, psychological health and economic health, and we will have to rebuild. I am therefore pleased that the government is working hard on an ambitious recovery plan. I think we really need to turn our backs on austerity recipes. Europe has understood this and that is a good thing. Above all, we must invest in health, in purchasing power, in the energy transition, in society, in public authorities. That is really what will enable our economy to recover. Of course, the budgetary cost is significant. These are tens of billions of euros. Our Secretary of State therefore has work to juggle between the necessary recovery, investment, purchasing power and deficit control. In my view, this government has made a courageous choice not to make budgetary orthodoxy a religion and to work more cautiously but in reconstruction. For the past two months, this country has had a strong, accountable and credible budget. This is not going to solve everything because the budgetary situation is very difficult. But I really believe that what our country, our workers, our entrepreneurs, our SMEs need is hope. This economic hope requires investment, economic recovery and social recovery. This project cannot be sacrificed on the altar of austerity. Yes to budgetary responsibility! Yes, to keep an eye on deficits! We are counting on you, Madam Secretary of State. However, we must also mobilise resources through the recovery plan and Europe to invest and sustain economic activity by leaving no one on the verge of this terrible crisis. According to our group, the economic recipe will be the most effective. Madam Secretary of State, I would like once again to thank you for your willingness to be transparent and for the work done. There is, of course, still a lot of work to be done, but be sure that our group will be at your side to try to improve the situation, in the interest of our country and all its inhabitants.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic384x.u9	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, I would like to thank you for the detailed explanation that has provided additional insights into the corona commission. We saw in the PowerPoint presentation that EUR 4 billion was already foreseen in 2020. That amount was increased in four steps and entered in the budget. I am trying to fit everything in with the budget that we approved here in December. At that time everything was entered on the general interdepartmental commission, but when I include the budget, we see that these funds will be entered on a second commission, specifically provided for for that purpose, which is a commission intended to combat the coronavirus from 2021 onwards. For example, EUR 906 million is foreseen in 2021. EUR 406 million will flow from this to medical care. The remaining 500 million will only be used to extend or adjust the provisional aid measures taken in the context of the corona crisis. That is how we were informed in December. Specifically, I do not see any connection between the presentation we received today and the budgetary work we saw in December. My first question is how much of the EUR 906 million entered in the budget on that specific commission on corona has already been spent today. As mentioned by Mr Loones, the Court of Auditors criticized this method in December. The Court of Auditors recalled that the use of these interdepartmental commissions prevents a correct picture of the means provided to implement the policy and thus undermines the transparency of the budget. In order to respect the principle of budgetary speciality, the Court of Auditors recommends that it be used only when the appropriation is not sufficiently clear when the budget is presented. The Court of Auditors, as well as us, found that that condition was not met. For example, part of the funding, which was EUR 406 million, was supported by a detailed assessment per performance of the virus's impact on medical care expenditure. The Court of Auditors is actually saying that because we have all the details of this expenditure, it should not be on a non-binding commission, but should simply be included in the budget. Most of the funds in the commission for new initiatives have also already been identified by beneficiary. That is my second question, Madam Secretary of State. You say that you will work in a different way than your predecessor. It is not yet clear to me how you will proceed in practice. Will you increase the commission in the budget, EUR 906 million, again in steps, or will you submit a number of additional expenditure to the respective departments for each budget change, budget adjustment or budgetary control? How are you going to work on a budget-based basis? Thirdly, if I have understood you correctly, Madam Secretary of State, you have said that you will soon be back here asking for an increase. When do you expect to be back here asking for an increase? You already foresee that. Will expenditure be foreseen or is it a general increase in commission? Fourthly, a number of resources have been spent. I see EUR 25 million for Aviapartner, EUR 290 million for SN Brussels Airlines and EUR 309 million for SNCB. The corona crisis is continuing. Do you expect Aviapartner, SN Brussels Airlines or SNCB to come back to the government for additional resources in the coming weeks or months? The crisis is continuing. There is talk of a third and fourth wave. Do you expect significant questions for additional funding? Have you already been in contact with SN Brussels Airlines, Aviapartner, SNCB or any other major public or semi-public undertaking showing that they will need additional resources? Fifth, your predecessor, Mr Clarinval, also presented an explanation in this committee in September. I think I remember, from the presentation that was given at the time, that EUR 45 million was allocated to Fedasil, under the heading 'change of the reception of asylum seekers in Belgium'. If I look at the figures now, I see only EUR 4 million for Fedasil for 2020. That amount is divided by ten. In September, EUR 45 million will be said. Now we suddenly see 4 million euros in your presentation. Where did those resources go? Was that a mistake last time or are those amounts not complete? Are these amounts included among other items? Can you clarify that? What amount has flowed to Fedasil in total?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic384x.u10	Mr Piedboeuf visited the Conference of Presidents. I myself will intervene at the end, leaving you first.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic384x.u11	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for the general overview and for the annex which contains interesting additional details. It is indeed a total of EUR 4 billion in commissions for last year and EUR 906 million for this year. The presentation was very clear. I have two small questions. Firstly, are there any expenses in the commission for 2021 that also have an impact on the structural balance this year or later? Secondly, are there any expenses in the 2021 commission that, according to the European Commission's criteria, are not covered by the general exception?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic384x.u12	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, the exercise we are doing today is, in my opinion, very problematic. You began your ministerial career under the announced sign of transparency. Here I have the impression that we are in contrast to this promised transparency. Yesterday we called the committee secretariat to find out on the basis of which documents we were going to conduct today's debate. And we have not received any documents prior to the preparation of a budget debate. It's inconceivable! You come here with a PowerPoint, you give us numbers, and we should, with a magic wand, be able to react to it! I would remind you that there has been quite a fundamental criticism of the 2021 budget. I add that on this 32-page PowerPoint – which is quite different from a budget – there are both 2020 and 2021. As far as 2020 is concerned, we can actually design continuity. We were in a period of crisis, so we are continuing on the path of the policy initiated by Mr.Clarinval in 2020 with a government in day-to-day business. But I'm really in trouble for 2021. The fundamental criticism we made to you, also expressed by the Court of Auditors, was that these interdepartmental provisions did not bring about any budgetary transparency. This was a historical total of €2.7 billion, an explosion compared to previous years in terms of interdepartmental provision. You said that in the course of the year, you would apply that transparency. In the budget we had nothing, since everything was included in the interdepartmental provision. What do we get? At the very moment, we receive a 32-page presentation, half of which in 2021, at the last moment, with very little detail. This is a big transparency issue. Why do we not receive much more detailed figures and tables, as is the case with the budget, in advance? How do you want to have a real budget debate if we do not receive figures beforehand? We should be able to analyse, weigh and compare these figures with previous years in order to assess their evolution. This is a very problematic way of doing things. The same applies to the provisions that you included in the 2021 budget: it is not clear what this is (a total of 2.694 billion, including a provision of 906 million corona). Are you limiting yourself to presenting this 906 million coronary provision, or are these all the provisions of the 2021 budget? It is difficult to determine since in your PowerPoint, there is no overall table for 2021 with a total amount! It is inconceivable to work in this way on a budget issue. I have a few questions despite this poor working environment. You're telling us that there's no more drawing rights on staff costs. Why? What is the motivation and how do you justify it? What about the $1 billion in investment provisions? I'd like to know what's going on with this provision? Do you intend to respond at another time? How do you conceive this thing? In the overall provision, $125 million was allocated to justice. How is it used? This is just one example, but there are many questions about what constitutes the whole departmental provision. No indication is provided. The elements of justice do not appear at all in your PowerPoint. We really don't have a fiscal transparency exercise. I don't think that's right. There is also the question of funding. We're extending $4 billion by 2020. What will happen in 2021 since we see that the crisis persists? What will be the funding? How will this huge hole in the budget, the corresponding debt, be financed? The PTB submitted a proposal for a "corona tax" to charge the richest. Clearly, it was not the majority's option that, as a symbolic tax on the rich, applied a 400 million euro security account tax. When we see the accumulation of billions here, it is clear that the greatest fortunes do not go sufficiently and realistically to contribute to all the costs that we bear. It is assumed that the population will have to pay this extra cost. The same applies to some large companies that took advantage of the crisis to enrich themselves even more: the Colruyt, Delhaize, etc. the benefits of which increase. How will they be used in relation to all the expenses presented here? That's a question you'll have to ask at some point. Another question arises with regard to this funding. What about the rules of the budgetary straitjacket that Europe imposes on us? In 2021, is this the end of re-creation in budgetary matters? After 2021, will the European Commission once again impose its budgetary dogmas and austerity as applied in the past when we are in a very exceptional situation? There was a margin of uncertainty with respect to this deadline. Do you have any details about this? Can the European Commission extend the latitude it has granted beyond 2021?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic384x.u13	Madam President, following on from the previous speaker, I would like to say that we must all have great respect for the people and businesses who are fully committed to meeting the needs of the population, businesses and governments and to doing work in this particular situation, on the other hand, with proper compensation. We understand, of course, the temporary unemployed. Anyone working under the Staff Regulations shall be fully reimbursed for such unemployment, a servant or worker shall receive only partial compensation in temporary unemployment. Madam Secretary of State, I shall return to the essence. I am particularly pleased that we have found the way back to normal budgetary practices. Minister Clarinval had already taken a step in that direction. With your message, you have made it clear that you want to clean up the commissions, if I may put it that way, as a number of items do not belong in them. You have referred to personnel costs and investment costs for homework and some other related expenses. Questions can also be asked about some other matters. Are the loans granted to certain institutions, for example, genuine expenditure? Normally they are refunded, which makes it a cash issue. There are also some transfers to public institutions, and the definition can also be discussed. I can only encourage you to continue along this path. In the past period measures could initially be justified by the exceptional crisis situation, but now, a year later, we need to restore budgetary responsibility. A second thing that strikes me is that we have talked very little about reallocating resources and people over the past period. In the case of increased expenditure in companies and companies, and even in the public sector, it is considered whether there can be savings or reallocate elsewhere. This applies both to financial resources and to people. I still have the question whether we should recruit people for every exceptional new public contract. Are there no staff in the entire administration who would be spontaneously interested in contact tracing or to engage in other matters? We live in a world in which everything that is stuck and difficult to move can move. If there are new needs, we must find new resources and people. The third point I wish to share here is that, in crisis situations, it is normally assumed that everyone has to make efforts. We have lived for a year with the idea that it should not cost anyone anything and that the government should compensate for the damage suffered. We must therefore, in fact, allow this damage to be compensated by future generations or by the taxpayer of tomorrow. I note that these measures, such as end-of-year premiums and additional incentives, also include a number of measures which cannot be compared with other countries. Compare it with what happens sometimes in other countries, where it is stated that in times of crisis everyone has to tighten and turn in a little. If there is 10 % less gross domestic product, it would be best if everyone had 10% less and we did not move the problems to the future and the illusory relic that will come, but it will serve to pay the new obligations of the future. I would also like to ask that, when we leave the current stage of extreme coronation, some time be devoted in the future to drawing lessons from what we have been through. I have two issues to deal with. To what extent have we not called too much on third parties in general? What about the agilities or the resistance, resilience and adaptability of the government? How do we use our administration, especially the top of the administration? Do we not call on external services too much? I am also thinking of external consultants. We must ask ourselves whether we appreciate and use our top officials sufficiently. However, we may also need to look at how much we outsource to peripheral organisations that are already being funded by the public authorities. I am thinking of the mutualities or other organisations that we are financing extra. To what extent do they make the exercise to optimally organise themselves? These are more general remarks, but I would like to give them to you. I am also pleased that you have been able to speak: in all sectors, the cost must be considered critically. It was almost not done to ask whether there could be savings in social security. There can be savings everywhere, much or little, but those who do not dare to look critical do not take up responsibility for the people today and tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic384x.u14	I want to say a few words for the MR. I hear the criticisms, questions and suggestions, but I stress that this government and the previous one have had to work urgently and anticipate a number of expenditure in a crisis that is constantly changing in nature and whose challenges are also constantly changing. It is a very complex fiscal year and we can nevertheless welcome the Secretary of State's efforts to ensure transparency, since the figures are at our disposal. The Secretary of State also announced that she would return regularly with specific costs and adjustments accordingly. This is a good thing and it is in the right direction because it allows our Parliament to ensure its supervisory role.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic384x.u15	I will first answer Mrs Depoorter's question, because that may be a bit of an answer to their questions for others as well. As regards the funds used to date for the corona commission, at present only one distribution decision has been drawn up from the corona commission COVID-19. It is a breakdown of EUR 310.6 million on the commitment side and EUR 60 million on the settlement side. This means that an additional EUR 596 million in commitments and EUR 847 million in liquidations is available in the commission. Of this, however, an amount of EUR 407 million has already been reserved by the RIZIV. The following expenditure was included in the first allocation decision: At the FPS Chancellery, the communication campaign was extended with a budgetary impact of 2.8 million euros. The FOD BOSA received a budget of EUR 3 million for the adaptation of workshops for people with disabilities and the support of telework for federal officials. There is a budget of €2 million for the FPS Justice and the Institute for Gender Equality, for the reception of Igbtqi and support for the services of Intra-Family Violence. Fedasil received €2 million for the purchase of laptops for children in the care network. In the Public Health domain, an amount of EUR 298,5 million was allocated in commitments and EUR 50 million in liquidations for, among other things, the purchase of vaccines and needles and the financing of clinical trials at the KCE. As far as the key 80/20 for the federal government is concerned, I still haven't seen any signed protocol. I am waiting for the necessary information from my colleague, Minister Vandenbroucke. The corona commission will be increased, if necessary, by means of an adjustment sheet to the budget, so that amendments will be made in an efficient manner and in full transparency for Parliament. For all the details of the course of the vaccination campaign, I can only refer you to the Minister responsible. The file on the storage of strategic stocks is indeed of a structural nature. I have therefore given my agreement that these appropriations should be entered in the budget of the Public Health Office in a structural manner, certainly until 2025. I can imagine that, although we wish to avoid this as much as possible, similar dossiers with structural impact will follow here and there. Of course, these dossiers will have to be submitted to the government and the way in which these appropriations can be integrated into the budget will have to be considered. I am sure that commissions are not suitable for dealing with structural costs. That is what I said in my presentation. There was a question about the pilot project on spending reviews, which I started in collaboration with my colleagues, a question that doesn't really refer to the corona commission. One of the spending reviews, entitled "Contribution to effective care," aims to make the resources more efficient. The proposed €40 million in savings is one of the partial results, but will be reinvested in patients' projects. I would like to go into this further. With the spending reviews instrument, I want to check in very different areas, almost in everything related to public finances, whether public finances are being used efficiently and whether the budgeted amount achieves the desired result in the most efficient way or whether the amount can be used in a different way, so that it costs less to achieve the intended result and reinvest the surplus into additional services or care, or whether we can achieve the same or perhaps even more with the same amount more efficiently. Three pilot projects are currently under way. I asked all my colleagues if they had any proposals, in their own domain, to start a spending review. This has been looked at in a number of services and three proposals have been made, including the proposal relating to the use of office space in the federal government. It's about pilot projects. We will look at how the tool works and how we can make a spending review in a good way. I have also asked my other colleagues how we can check whether their expenditure is efficient and what they propose to keep public finances under review. The proposal cited is one of them. It is certainly not the intention to save or take away EUR 40 million in healthcare, but to see whether we are using the funds efficiently and whether we can achieve the objective with less resources, so that we can reinvest those funds in efficient care. In any case, it is the intention to extend the pilot projects. I hope that I have answered these questions and that they can give some answers to the other questions as well. I shall now try to consider the questions systematically. As far as the monthly figures are concerned, and when has been paid, I cannot, of course, give you any information right now. I'll see what's possible. We will do our best to provide as much detail as possible. The communication around the coronatracing app isn't really my jurisdiction. I can tell my colleagues that you think this is too little. I certainly want to take it with me, but it's hard for me to start campaigns about it myself. I can check whether the detailed specific amounts for which communication campaign on corona are known to us. As regards the questions on the purchase of corona vaccines, the distribution decision No 20 of 24 December 2020 provided EUR 279.1 million in commitment appropriations to the Public Health Office. EUR 25.7 million had already been made available to the European Commission's ESI Fund for the purchase of vaccines. Apart from the advance of EUR 25.7 million to the European Fund, no settlement has been made so far. For a state of supply, please ask the Minister of Health. In the preparation of the initial budget 2021, a corona commission of EUR 907 million was entered. I've already gone into that. Of course there are other covid-related expenses, such as testing, which will also have to be charged on the commission. I've already explained that for a piece. Basically, there is currently about EUR 500 million for about 44.5 million doses of vaccine. The advance has already been paid and the vaccines will be paid if they are delivered and the invoices come in. Part of this was committed last year, EUR 279 million, and the rest was committed for 2021. If the invoices come in, we'll follow it up. I will then tell you what percentage has already been paid on the basis of the appropriations entered. If you need any more details, I'll get them to you in writing. As far as the Hello Belgium Railpass is concerned, an effective EUR 110 million has been transferred to SNCB to purchase the free tickets for the benefit of its citizens. I do not have any figures on the number of people who have made effective use of this; for that I have to refer you to the Minister for Mobility. In addition to the payment for that train pass, a separate co-vid aid of € 264 million was granted to SNCB in 2020. It's a compensation for the loss of revenue. I believe that, together with Infrabel, it involved 309 million euros. You mentioned the use of the corona commission for government appropriations. I know that there has been a change in the budget; this was discussed here at one of my first committee meetings. In my view, this was not included in the corona commission; it was regulated by a budget change. The funds for new initiatives at Justice will remain on the commissions for the time being in budgetary control until they have been approved by the government. Only then will the funds be transferred from the commission to the basic budget. So it actually depends on the speed of the Minister responsible. If the plans are concrete, we can actually allocate the funds to the appropriate posts. How will we book the funds from Europe's support fund in our budget? The administration is currently preparing a proposal for the practical operation of the expenditure on that fund. The legal basis of the fund allows pre-financing once the plan has been approved. I will therefore wait until the proposal is fully worked out. Then we'll communicate about that. Mr Bayet, you stressed the importance of future investments. Indeed, we need growth to overcome this crisis. In this sense, the government is working to strengthen consumer and business confidence, and that is why we have supported the economy. As soon as possible, as soon as the economy can reopen, I hope that we will make investments to accelerate this growth. Mr Vermeersch, to your first question, on how the EUR 907 million of the corona commission was distributed, I replied. In reply to your second question on commissions, I have just said that it will be the speed of the Ministers responsible to come up with concrete proposals to use the amounts provided for so that they can be effectively attributed to the right item. If it depends on me, the sooner the better. I, of course, also prefer that these amounts are clearly shown in the appropriate budget headings. That makes it much easier to follow up and check everything afterwards. What kind of work do we want to use in future for the corona-related amounts? There's gonna be requests. So far it has been as follows: an application came in and it was put under the corona commission. From now on, we will analyse the incoming requests in the administration and in the cabinet. They will be framed as we see fit. If there is such a list, we will go to Parliament and the government with it and it will be explained. The necessary appropriations will then be made available. It's kind of the reverse way of working. It is not, therefore, the case that there are credits that can be drawn from. A list will be drawn up, discussed and approved and the necessary appropriations will then be provided for. You asked whether Aviapartner, SNCB and so on would ask for such additional funding. The crisis obviously lasts longer than expected, certainly longer than hoped. A number of entities face the same problems as in 2020. In a first update sheet that I will present, there is yet another part of the support to SNCB for the first quarter 2021. For the repayments of the loans granted in 2021, please refer to the Minister of Finance. The 4 million euro for Fedasil was the cost of monitoring and renting additional containers. This was merely an example of expenditure under the general operation category. In the end, Fedasil did not ask for the EUR 45 million. This amount was earmarked for additional reception due to delays, but in the end this was not necessary. I will ask for further details on this. That seems to me to be a large amount of money that suddenly is not necessary. It was asked whether structural expenditure would continue in 2021. This is true, but only the personnel costs. We want to re-subscribe it to the budget in 2021, not through the corona commission. For all other expenditure there is a strict control that the amounts are temporary. Measures which are ultimately structural, although the aim is to minimise the number of possible measures, are, for example, strategic stock measures. Structural staff costs are also taken out of the commission and entered correctly in the budget. Mr Matheï, you asked if there was any expenditure on the 2021 commission which is not covered by the European Commission's general criteria for exceptions. For the time being, there is no reason to believe that certain expenses incurred from the 2021 fee would not meet the criteria of the European Commission with regard to covid aid. Mr. Van Hees, what can I tell you? Indeed, it is always better to have the data available in advance. However, if you still have questions about the figures I gave you today, you can always ask me in writing or at future meetings of this committee. I will try to provide the presentations and documents a little earlier, so you will have time to rigorously analyze them and ask me concrete questions during the meeting. What did you ask again? As far as the European budgetary rules are concerned, we do not yet have any information. We know, for this year, that the rules that existed have no effect. In the years to come, we will see how the European Commission intends to react. Personally, I think that next year it may come with proposals for a budgetary framework – perhaps not the same framework as before, but we will see. As I have already told you, our will is to follow the proposed European budgetary framework. In the long run, I think it's the best thing to do. Mr Leysen, you spoke about different parts of the government where savings can be made. I just explained that we want to apply those spending reviews in all domains. That is really a way of keeping expenditure under review and trying to make things more efficient. In the end, that is something that one also does in personal life, in one's own household. For a state economy too, it is an efficient way of questioning itself and wondering whether what one spends always happens in the most efficient way and whether it is necessary at all. Whatever is saved there may then be invested in another department, so that things will be more efficient and spending far more than they are actually doing at the moment. It is really our ambition to do that. It seems to me to have answered virtually all the questions. We will try to give you more details in writing. We will try to give you more details in writing where possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic384x.u16	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your reply. On almost the first anniversary of the lockdown, I'm a little disappointed. You know perfectly how many vaccines were ordered and how much they cost, you have made that clear. Yet you still do not register them in the budget and they are still paid by commission. I don't understand. You indicate how many were paid and how many will enter and state that you will adjust the commission in proportion to what comes in. Why is it not included in a budget line as other countries do? You state yourself that you don't think working with commissions is correct. However, you will continue to work with commissions a year after we are dealing with the covid crisis, at a time when we can no longer say that we are still in an acute situation. You know that there will be these costs and how much they will be, but you will continue to work with commissions. I don't think this is good governance, it's not a proper way of working. You say you like transparency and want to work transparently. I therefore invite you to do what is expected of a Secretary of State for the Budget: registering this in the budget and putting very clear costs into the vaccination strategy. There is also the fact that the 80/20 key has not yet been communicated to you. So how's the government communication going? You're at dinner together every week, aren't you? Surely you need to be clearly briefed by your colleagues on the distribution key? We left for a ten-month vaccination campaign. How can you keep your budget in order if you do not have any communication with your colleague from Health? We have heard very clearly in the Covid Committee that the lack of foresight and leadership was one of the killing factors of the first and second wave. This could be a killing factor for the budget. If you cannot act in a forward-looking way, if you cannot take the lead in the formulation of your budget, then you have an effective problem. You also mentioned the communication campaign. Do I understand correctly that EUR 2.8 million will be added to the EUR 3 million already planned? Are we at EUR 5.8 million? I found your answer on the spending reviews special. I assume that when something appears in the press from your cabinet, it is also read by your services. The title of the article is: "The Bleeker wants to save on public expenditure." So this is not about spending reviews, it is about public spending. In that interview, you clearly state that you will save EUR 40 million on the EUR 30 billion for public health. You will examine hospital funding and think about day hospitalization. I see you shaking your head in denial now, but I'm reading what's in the newspaper article, which I suppose your services have read. When it comes to efficiency gains in health care, you will always have a partner with the N-VA when there is an excessive flow of resources to structures that do not benefit patients, health professionals and the functioning of health care. I will not question that, but what is quite clear in this article is that there will be a saving in the daily recordings. It's like the day hospitalizations and home hospitalizations that characterise a modern health care, and which are subject to very thorough research to ensure that patients can be rehabilitated and cared for in a home environment. Very often this is in favour of finance. I'd like to get confirmation from you that this isn't about saving money. And then I suggest that you let the author of the article know that this is a false interpretation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic384x.u17	Madam Secretary of State, I would like to add a number of observations and questions to the medical points raised by Mrs Depoorter. Thank you for your answer on the app Coronalert. I understand that you are not responsible, but you are responsible for the payment. I note that the matter will be followed up. I hope that some more budgetary and other attention will be paid to putting an essential app on the market, rather than putting the campaign of 1 team of 11 million on the market. For le petit histoire, we did a valentine campaign with our N-VA department. We've been handing out chocolates to all our members. So I did walk around during the crocus vacation. I ran into a poster of the campaign of one team of 11 million. That was in a building where six N-VA members lived. That may have been a counter-reaction. I would hardly dare say that this campaign was very successful. Let us ensure that the campaign around the Coronalert app, which will be launched, is more successful. I installed the app myself. I advise everyone to do the same. I suggest the government finally take that app seriously. Mrs Depoorter has already mentioned the vaccines. There has been a lot of confusion in communication, on both sides. I think that we spoke side by side or did not understand each other properly, at the end of last year, also because a number of terms were used which caused confusion. I remember your tweet: we bought 33 million euros of vaccines this year. Then the concept of "purchases" begins to be defined. I also understand that this can be defined if we have half an agreement through Europe. I certainly read that as a purchase. Of course, we do know how much the vaccines cost and how many will come. We also know when they will be paid. That brings me to the permanent comment on the appropriations and the commissions. Why don't you just do that? You yourself say that the money stays in the commissions until it is effectively earmarked. It will then be entered on a specific budget line. Well, here you can do it perfectly. The argument for doing so for other policy areas, such as Justice, only once the Minister has done his homework is not really an argument. A budget is by definition a declaration of intent to do this in a given year. For the money in the commission, that's exactly the same thing. This also applies to what is stated in the specific commission for Justice, for example. The Minister will have to work hard to ensure that expenditure is done properly, as it says in the budget. If he does not, there will be underutilisation, as is classic in a budget. The fact that you will not transfer fees until the Minister does his homework is not an adequate explanation for going to discipline for a decent budget. I note your answer on the government appropriations. That's not quite in line with exactly how it went down. We've had the discussion and discussed the corona commission in committee. At that time, I explicitly said that there were no budgets for the Cabinets. At that moment, you fell off your chair. I had also addressed the Prime Minister. The provisional appropriations were then approved and the Cabinets were undoubtedly financed in a certain way. It was only after that that the adjustment was made through the provisional appropriations. Anyway, let's leave that point for what it is. That happened last year. It is the most important thing that everyone has seen that your government opts for more cabinets, larger cabinets and more posts, while in other governments, such as the Flemish Government, this happens a lot more soberly. Mr Leysen, I am a little surprised by two points of your speech. If corona strikes and GDP drops by 10%, you think it would be best if all people themselves had 10% less. I hope that's where you slipped up a little bit. It is not because there is an economic downturn that we must be in people's pockets. We can save money and reform the structures. We can take measures to guide people who don't have a job now to another job, even in times of corona. We can bring people who are long-term ill closer to us again to get to work effectively. These are the ways in which such challenges are financed. That does not happen, as you insinuated at least, by saying that people should only earn 10% less. At least that's a reading I don't share. I come to a second observation. You say there can be savings anywhere. Personally, I agree. In any case, there is a need for reform, but I must say something about it in this public assembly. A question has been asked by the Secretary of State for Parliament to also save on Parliament's own operation and to make here the same budgetary exercise that we ask the administrations, in particular that 2%. For a number of sectors that are more central to the corona crisis, a smaller saving is required. You are therefore right to ask, Madam Secretary of State, that this Parliament, the Chamber of Representatives, should also save on its functioning. I can only observe that, from the services of the President, and unfortunately with the support of some groups, a letter has been sent to the cabinet saying that Parliament is not going to do anything. Parliament will not save on its workings. Our group had a different view on this in the Bureau of the Chamber. In view of your statements, Mr Leysen, I hope that you will encourage your representative in the Bureau of the Chamber to make your point that there can be savings everywhere and first look into your own mind.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic384x.u18	You are asking for the floor for a personal statement, Mr Leysen?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic384x.u19	That's right. Mr Loones, either you have quoted me badly or I have expressed myself miserably. I wanted to make it clear that a government is collective, of all of us. If there's less revenue, there's less revenue. We live in the illusion that the government is a magic box that can cope with all the deficits in income generation. If there is an income deficit, it will be borne by the entire population, by the present or next generation. That's what I've been trying to prove. That we can compensate as a government and that no one has to pay the bill is an illusion. For the rest, you confirm that costs must be regularly questioned in all ways and on all fronts, which is a sound business principle. It is also important that choices should be made. Today, we are in a situation in which we believe that the government must meet all the new needs, but that it must also continue to fill in all the old questions it has ever answered. In this way, we come to a government that keeps growing. Let us be honest, we are all collectively guilty there. In this respect, we must carry out our own investigations of conscience.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic384x.u20	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answers. However, I would like to come back to the own resources decision and the European Recovery Fund. You say about the financing and the impact on the budget that your services are drawing up a proposal. Of course, we will approve the draft this afternoon. We must approve it this afternoon in Parliament, which is particularly problematic. After all, we must not underestimate the fact that we commit ourselves to many billions of euros, not only directly, for the grants that are being distributed, but also indirectly, to guarantee the loans that are being distributed. That commitment is valid for 40 years, up to 2058. This will therefore have an impact not only on the federal budget but also on the budgets of the Länder. The fact that the proposal still has to be worked out, while the draft law is being adopted here in committee this afternoon, is particularly problematic. After all, we need to know the impact before we can approve anything. That is the view of our group. That said, you have listed here the EUR 906 million entered in the 2021 budget. I can do a lot, but I haven't been able to write down everything. Can you include it in your written reply so that we have that information in detail? There's one more question I haven't answered. You stated that you will soon be standing again for an increase. When exactly do you expect to be here again? The sum of EUR 45 million has not been requested. You will also reply in writing. We look forward to the answer. You may still be able to answer the question when you expect to be standing here again, which would be nice. I also note that you have already been contacted for SNCB to provide funds for the first quarter. With regard to SN Brussels Airlines, Aviapartner and the companies at the airport, I understand that you do not yet have any requests for additional funding. If that is the opposite, please confirm.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic384x.u21	Madam President, I would like to make a few brief points. Budgetary control has been launched at technical level. The question is right, and I'm taking them with me. However, I do not want to promise or say anything. I do not quite understand where this EUR 5.8 million will go for the communication campaign. It would be EUR 9 million in 2020 and EUR 2.8 million in 2021. We shall see how we can clarify this in the reply to Mr Loones. I have also read the article in the newspaper, but perhaps the same slightly modified article has appeared in several newspapers. It clearly states that if there is a more efficient way of working that can save money, it can be invested in new technologies, for example, in order to work more efficiently. I will not decide on my own that we will save EUR 40 million in health care. On the contrary, it is intended to use this as a pilot project for spending reviews to see how we can use this instrument to monitor certain expenditures in various departments and departments. We have applied to all departments to come forward with a proposal. They have come up with this proposal themselves. In a tweet one can indeed use very few characters. A lot of people won't understand those terms. It's jargon. As far as the use of commissions is concerned, I would also prefer to see it all in the right posts. We shall see how far that can go during budgetary control. Mr Vermeersch, a number of cases have now been brought in. We'll draw up a list of what an amount will be against. I will be back here in the very near future, probably as early as March. I seem to remember, but I have to check that skeyes has already made an application. For the other partners at the airport, I have to check it out. I'm not sure. My answer was short, but as always: if you have any questions or want details, you can always contact us, and then I will either give a written answer or come to the committee to provide more explanations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic384x.u22	Madam Secretary of State, I would like to tell you that today you have given me a little happiness. The N-VA Group has been indicating for three months that the payment of vaccines and the vaccination strategy is better included in the budget in a transparent manner. You are now stating that you are going to do so. I will, of course, continue to follow that up, because a good father is paying attention to his pennies or, like you, a good housemother is paying attention to her pennies. We will follow this further. Thank you.
