ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic611x.u1	Madam Minister, you recently created a working group to develop a so-called child and youth test for police services. The reason for this is the growing mutual incomprehension and mistrust between young people, especially young adolescents, and the police. We all know by now the stories of interventions that have led some young people involved, rightly or wrongly, to incomprehension of police action. At the same time, we must not lose sight of the concerns of our policemen. They often feel disrespected by certain young people, while simply doing their job and working for public security. I therefore believe that restoring the relationship of trust between the two groups is a necessary objective. I am pleased that you have brought together a wide range of expertise in the relevant working group, such as the Commissioner for Children's Rights. The test to be drawn up is intended for intervention policy. In your press release, however, you also mentioned greater attention to the handling of children and young people during the renewed police training. That too seems to me to be a good thing. Experts indicated in the press that an adapted mindset of the police should already be made during the training. I would like to ask you the following questions. What are the exact types of interventions and age categories on which the child and youth test will focus? The main problems seem to arise in the relationship with young adolescents. When drawing up the test, will differentiation be taken into account depending on the areas in which interventions take place? I can imagine that there are other problems in the cities than in the countryside. Can you explain how the renewed police training will focus on dealing with children and young people? What are the aspects of this? Is it, for example, also a matter of interrogation techniques? At what time do you expect, finally, the test? You have been in contact with Minister Dalle on the basis of an opinion from the Flemish Youth Council. I have a few questions about this too. What were the results of your discussion with the Flemish Youth Council about the advice? Has a follow-up been agreed? How do you see that trajectory? What recommendations in the opinion could you possibly adopt and translate into policy? What recommendations in the opinion can you agree with or not agree at all? Will the Flemish Youth Council continue to be involved in the ongoing or ongoing development of initiatives on, among other things, the child and youth test, the bodycams and disciplinary regulation? If so, how do you see this involvement? If not, will the opinions and comments be taken into account? How do you see this? Can you give me an update on the measures you have taken and will take on diversity in the police?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic611x.u2	Madam Minister, I will not repeat Mr Demon's introduction. The task is clear, namely to restore confidence between the police and young people. It is also very important how the police deal with children and young people in certain difficult situations and also with police interventions and interviews. As we can see for some time now, the relationship between young people and the police is becoming increasingly difficult. We often talk about young people, but you have different age groups in mind. From what age do you see the child and youth test? In my view, it is not just about young people. Who's in the working group? The advice of the Flemish Youth Council came at a good time. To what extent will you take that into account? What procedures do you wish to adapt? In other words, what themes are being addressed? Is it also about certain video interrogation techniques, about infrastructure within commissioners, about the fact that certain police areas have separate services for Youth and Family? Those services are now voluntary. Is this included in the evaluation? Is that a recommendation for all zones? What exactly is the timeline? When do you expect what results?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic611x.u3	Mrs Van Peel and Mrs Chanson are not present.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic611x.u4	Mr President, Madam Minister, according to a survey conducted by the Youth Council of the Flemish Community Commission of 1 968 young people in Brussels, only 17% of young people associate the police with security and 12% with respect. It is clear from this survey that the feelings of fear, anger and impotence among young people dominate the police. These feelings worsen among people who have been in contact with the police several times: 29 per cent reported verbal abuse and 13 per cent reported physical abuse. Young people are overrepresented in the checks: half of them say they have already been checked by the police and 68% say they have been victims of ethnic profiling. According to the survey, young people are willing to reduce this tension. In fact, 93% say they want this situation to be improved. The Brussels Region will conduct a pilot project for this purpose, to which the Midi police zone will cooperate. But everyone agrees that a structural approach is necessary. Minister, what is your opinion on these figures? What have you put in place since you took office to restore trust between the police and young people?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic611x.u5	Madam Minister, I would like to refer to the questioning of the Youth Council of the Flemish Community Commission of nearly 2,000 young people. The survey showed that 76 percent of the young people questioned do not feel safe in contact with the police. 68 % suspects ethnic profiling in a check, fouille or arrest. Only 17% of the police associated with security, 12% with respect. I think we agree that these are alarmingly low figures. Moreover, 29 percent indicate that they have been victims of verbal violence, and 13 percent even claim to have experienced physical violence. The conclusion is positive in that 93% of the young people questioned said that the relationship between young people and the police should improve. The will to do so is certainly there with young people. The Flemish Youth Council has also worked on this and issued an opinion on it. In your discussion paper that we discussed yesterday, you acknowledge the problem. You say that the tension between young people and the police has increased in recent years, including through interventions in protests and identity checks. You indicate that you want to improve the relationship of trust between young people and the police. Madam Minister, what is your response to the results of the inquiry of the Youth Council of the Flemish Community Commission? Are you in favour of carrying out registered checks where the person in question receives proof of control and a reason for the identity check? This could be a way of countering the suspicion of ethnic profiling. What role do you see for the youth councils to achieve a better understanding between police and young people? How do you see the Child and Youth Test Working Group, which has been tasked with improving the relationship of trust between young people and the police?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic611x.u6	Mr. Chair, Minister, we have all seen recently how many physical and verbal assaults have increased, with increased violence against police officers. I have already asked you several times about this. Since then, new guidelines have already been issued to prosecutors. On 9 July, you announced the launch of an awareness-raising campaign "on mutual respect" aimed at bringing the population closer to our police services, with the clear aim of ensuring better respect for our law enforcement forces, on the basis of the principle of meetings and "contacts" between our police officers and the population. Could you please let me know what actions have already been taken and what activities are planned in the context of this campaign which began – I would remind you – on 9 July? What is the period during which this campaign will be conducted? What federal police services and local police areas are integrated into this campaign and what tasks have been assigned to them in this context? How is communication on this campaign carried out and what budget has been allocated to it? How are the connections between police and citizens structured in this campaign?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic611x.u7	Mr President, Madam Minister, yesterday we had the opportunity – thank you – to discuss the relationship between young people and the police. As you will understand, this is a central issue for me, both in the exercise of police missions and in relation to recruitment, for example. In general, I believe that an improvement in the relationship between police officers on the one hand and citizens on the other, and in particular young people, is necessary, with mutual respect for their rights and duties. In connection with the health measures imposed by the fight against covid, the situation has become even more complex. We must therefore ask ourselves the right questions and, above all, take the necessary steps to rebuild the link. To this end, in particular, our group has tabled a motion for a resolution aimed at improving relations between citizens and their police by putting forward mediation as an instrument, an instrument which is currently too little developed in complaints against the police forces. This issue is particularly crucial with regard to youth, and the feeling of misunderstanding and lack of dialogue that is sometimes felt. Yesterday I welcomed your willingness to schedule a conference of youth organisations and elderly people in the spring of 2022. But there's an emergency. This issue needs to be addressed fully and with a specific approach, not least in terms of our three regions, but also in terms of whether we are in urban or rural areas. Madam Minister, could you please indicate to me the various initiatives taken throughout the country in this area, but also in the area of police training, including on-going training? This is a crucial issue for living together and mutual respect between citizens and their police. This mutual respect helps to create a favourable climate for the conduct of police work on a daily basis, but is also crucial in the face of the challenge of recruiting – we also mentioned yesterday – for the police throughout the Kingdom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic611x.u8	Madam Secretary, yesterday we were discussing the attractiveness of the police. Violence against police officers is a crucial issue here. Everyone agrees on the need to strengthen the relationship of trust and to launch campaigns to promote mutual respect. I also had two reservations yesterday. Firstly, a distinction must be made between children and young people. I follow Mrs Ingels in that. Somewhere an age limit must be drawn. A 16 or 17-year-old can hardly be called another child. Secondly, we must make sure that the pendulum does not go all the way to the other side. For example, the advice of the Flemish Youth Council raises the problem of ethnic profiling. Madam Secretary, I insist that ethnic profiling in the police force is not the general rule. Framework profiling is done, which is something completely different and does not look at origin. In this respect, we have given the police a responsibility and we trust her with that responsibility. In practical terms, I wonder whether there is no role for the local police zones. In the meantime, they have taken a number of good initiatives, precisely because the problem is slightly different from police zone to police zone. Police zones in cities such as Brussels are not comparable to smaller ones in rather rural environments. It might be good to diversify these campaigns according to whether we are dealing with urban or rural areas.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic611x.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, many interesting questions have been asked. With regard to the Child and Youth Test Working Group within the police work, it is important to stress that the task we have set for this can, of course, still be tailored to the specific needs. This task is to improve the relationship of trust between children/young people and the police by giving the police the means to take into account children and young people in protocols and procedures used in interventions involving children and young people. Of course, a 16-year-old isn't a 6-year-old child. It is not the case that there should be no attention for young people in this exercise. It is also important for young people aged 16 to be able to improve the relationship of trust. It is primarily intended to establish in that working group which police interventions, for both administrative and judicial tasks, should include a child and youth test. For example, identity checks, complaint mechanisms, infrastructure, but also interventions involving children or young people who are not themselves the subject of intervention. It is also intended to exchange good practice in this working group, in order to inspire other bodies and police areas. It is also intended to involve local police, not only to provide information but also to obtain information, and to find out how we handle it best. The members involved in the working group and related to the police are members of the following organisations: first, the Federal Police, including the AIG, the P Committee and the National Police Academy, and secondly, the local police in Brussels, Wallonia and Flanders, as well as the Permanent Commission of the Local Police. It is intended to carry out that task on the basis of an analysis of existing literature. This remains to be determined in the working group. Mrs Ingels, we assumed that we would be able to determine age limits on persons up to 30 years of age, not to have the same approach for everyone, but because we regard this category as young people, although I know that there can be different views on this. If it turns out that we need to have different views on this, we will take it with us. It is also important that, in subgroups on the themes we discuss, such as identity checks, we distinguish between minors and adults. This is a consideration that we must be able to follow, but it is possible that some issues or themes will be considered differently. Of course, a number of initiatives have already been launched in the past by various local actors, as a result of the growing mutual incomprehension and mistrust that has been established by all. We will, of course, continue to support and further encourage these initiatives, and possibly even coordinate them at national level, in order to ensure that best practices are exchanged between local authorities and federal and local police. It was asked whether the police training should be changed immediately. This will be addressed in a working group. No concrete proposals have yet been made for this. However, it seems obvious. This could also be a theme in the vision we are developing for police education. We have to consider whether we should indicate certain elements in this. You know that sometimes this is an interaction between what is happening on the ground and what needs to be done in police training. On the other hand, it can grow from the police training itself. We will take that into account. With regard to timing, at this stage, a first meeting of the working group was held on 23 September, in order, inter alia, to frame the future actions of this working group, to determine whether other partners should also be gathered around the table and to discuss the need to adapt police training. These items were therefore on the agenda. This year, we will hold at least two more general meetings to identify some sub-groups that will work from 2022 onwards on specific topics in a more targeted way. It is clear to me, too, that sub-groups can eventually follow a differentiated pace. These themes may include quick-wins and more delicate or difficult elements that require more time. For my part, young people will be able to participate in the work of the working group. In my view, youth associations will have to be found and invited. They have already been invited to represent young people. The thematic working groups will meet from January onwards. Their mission will be to propose concrete measures in relation to the specific themes they will address. In this context, it is not excluded that this should lead to proposals for legislative amendments. It is too early to expand on these details, but it is not impossible that an adaptation of the regulations is necessary. The "mutual respect" campaign will also be cited. As we have announced, it is logical for a long-term campaign to adapt certain activities or campaign tools to strengthen the relationship of trust, specifically with regard to young people and children, as well as to further strengthen positive dialogue or interaction between citizens and the police, including with children or young people. Mr Pivin, the aim of the campaign is indeed to develop mutual respect between citizens and those who work in the field of security. The first stage of the campaign was launched on 23 August. The aim is to make the various professions of safety known. For this reason, brochures explaining the tasks and responsibilities of the safety professions have been prepared and distributed to the partners. On 3 September, I inaugurated the campaign by unveiling a fresco representing its symbol, namely two points. These points symbolize the link throughout this campaign. No end date has really been set for this campaign, as it is essential to work in a sustainable and structural way on the relationship between young people and the police and the relationship between citizens and the police. Every month, various practices of local authorities that promote the relationship between citizens and those who carry out a security profession are highlighted. Local authorities can thus have an overview of what works and then implement it themselves in order to restore trust between citizens and security professionals. My administration is also developing various other actions to increase mutual respect. In particular, the rights and duties of citizens and security professionals will be clarified, the visibility of reporting points in cases of aggression and violence will be increased and positive dialogues will be facilitated. The Standing Committee on Local Police, the Communications Directorate of the Federal Police and the Social Police Service are partners involved in the campaign. They will help shape the campaign and its underlying actions, in order to strengthen mutual respect between citizens and police officers. These entities also relay this campaign internally via their intranet site 'Wikipol', 'PolNews' articles or at various meetings or communication actions. The 2022 Federal Police calendar will focus on the theme of mutual respect. My administration also hired the marketing agency Bridgeneers to deal with communication around the campaign. A budget of 84,000 euros was spent on a social media campaign during September and October 2021. As mentioned earlier, posters and brochures are distributed to partners who can order campaign materials free of charge via my administration's website. Finally, the videos were made on the basis of the concept 'eyes in the eyes'. These interviews serve as an example for a positive dialogue. In the course of the conversation, the two sides seek a common vision and finally turn to the future with a positive look and mutual understanding. The conversation clearly shows that, despite the different visions or bad experiences, the goal remains the same for the future, that is, mutual respect. With regard specifically to the local police areas, they were invited to complete a survey in late April and early May in order to identify good practices and initiatives developed in their area. Their collection served as a source of inspiration to propose elements to the communication plan developed by the DG Security and Prevention Communications Unit. These elements were relayed through various media, interviews between young people and police officers, and written cross-interviews. The areas were also invited to relay these publications via their own social media and to use the campaign's visuals. The Federal Police will also soon launch a new project for young people aged 14 to 18 from all over Belgium entitled 'The Rookies'. It aims to strengthen the links between the police and citizens. Thirty young people will have the opportunity to discover the work of various federal police services through multiple activities. As I said earlier, the role of young people in society is a topic that goes far beyond the context of relations between young people and the police. The topic should concern all authorities, regardless of their level of power or area of competence. Any initiative to bring citizens closer to their police should be encouraged. Several police areas are implementing projects and actions in this direction. I am thinking, for example, of these initiatives to organise sports meetings between police officers and young people, the establishment of more walking and cycling patrols, commented visits to police stations, sponsorships in schools and cadets (?). I encourage local police to continue their efforts to strengthen community policing and expand their activities with a view to better understanding and dialogue with the population. Finally, I would like to highlight two existing initiatives. First of all, polarization training: a threat or an opportunity for the police?'. This training provides police officers with a theoretical framework for reflection, as well as tools that can be used in their daily activities, also with young people. Another initiative also aims to improve the relationship between the police and citizens. The framework of professional profiling developed in four pilot areas of the local police force, which is part of the philosophy of community policing, is now available to the entire integrated police force, and will be integrated into the basic training of police officers. I also personally pay particular attention to the police as a service close to citizens, which is explicitly reflected in my political orientation statement. This theme will also be discussed and discussed within the framework of the General States of the Police. Mrs Platteau, Mrs Ingels and Mr Demon, you also referred to the recommendations of the Flemish Youth Council. There were 31 recommendations, which according to their approach were divided into six major sub-topics, namely relationship, ethnic profiling and police violence, complaints and sanctions, training and recruitment, public space, rights and duties. We cannot quickly get over these issues. All recommendations require an in-depth analysis, in order to determine which points can be translated into policy and whether this is also desirable. These are recommendations. We need to be able to determine whether it is matters that we want to move on with. A national action plan against racism is also under way. A number of recommendations that we have read in the opinion of the Flemish Youth Council are already covered in part or in detail in the action plan. Other recommendations, as you rightly point out, have already been put on the agenda for policy transposition. Mr Depoostere, for your question about professional profiling or ethnic profiling, I can tell you that this is certainly a point of interest. I may have already mentioned that the day before yesterday we had a debate with the Permanent Committee of the Local Police on the subject. A project is being rolled out in a police zone, to see which additional procedures, protocols or systems we need to introduce, which we need to take into account and how we can follow up. Measurability is an element in this. This is not really evident, not even because of the protection of personal data. However, attention to this and, above all, communication is very important in order to explain to people why a particular intervention is taking place. To return to the advice of the Flemish Youth Council, the division into these sub-topics may constitute a directive in the elaboration of the subgroups within the Child and Youth Test Working Group. It will, of course, be up to the members of the working group to consider which recommendations they can take into account, which are desirable and which may also fall within the competence of other fields of competence. After all, security does not necessarily fall within the competence of the Minister for the Interior in all areas. In any case, a partner within this working group is De Ambrassade, an organisation that puts youth work, youth information and youth policy on the map. It also supports the Flemish Youth Council in the performance of its tasks. In this way, the Flemish Youth Council is also involved in the elaboration of the Child and Youth Test. We want to do the same with the young Brusselsers and Walloons, as we discussed yesterday, Mr Senesael. In this way, we can define within the working group the timing and the further projects. That framework of action 'professional profiling' is important. A framework has been developed and a number of zones will also further share these good practices. This framework of action is mainly based on four main pillars: the legality of police control, the explanatory statement to the citizen, the behaviour of the police officer and the reflection. It is important to consider this once in a while, as was also indicated by the zones. There will be interaction with the federal police. This will be included in the initial training for prospective police inspectors. Of course, one of the key elements in addressing the relationship of trust between citizens and police, and young people and police, is the new recruitment procedure, where diversity is an important issue. We want to support the local and federal police. In order to do so, a brochure is being prepared focusing on diversity and anti-racism and anti-discrimination legislation. In this way, additional attention will be paid to this. We were talking yesterday about the values, the culture and the morality committee in the selection. That could go hand in hand with that. In conclusion, as I said earlier, the place of young people in society is a subject which goes far beyond the context of relations between young people and police services and must concern all authorities, regardless of their level of power or their area of competence. I think we have, with the working group, initiated the debate, but it is also up to us to find ideas to improve this relationship between young people and the police.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic611x.u10	As De Standaard headlined today and as this is always the case, it was a very correct representation, with good answers. You are one of the first ministers to involve young people and children in this important aspect of security. My questions have been answered.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic611x.u11	Your answers were very comprehensive. I would also like to congratulate you on the very good initiative. Not only can we call for very strict and fair penalties if violence against the police goes wrong, we must also do everything we can to restore the relationship between young people and the police. Don't lose sight of the little ones either. A contact with the police in a delicate situation can leave long traces. If you work with subgroups, I am quite confident that they too will be covered. Thanks again for the initiative and I look forward to the results.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic611x.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chair, thank you, Madam Minister, for your answer, which contains many elements but leaves me still hungry. I'm a little tired of receiving theoretical answers every time and nothing concrete. The most concrete thing I have heard in your answer is that bonds of trust need to be improved by empowering the police to take young people and children into account in their interventions. What do you mean by'means'? This term can mean a lot of things. What does it actually cover? Are they personnel? Are these tools? Is this concrete training to be developed? Are these additional months of training? I have also followed the campaign that you launched and mentioned here today and, again, we do not know what is meant by'mutual respect'. What does the expression mean? What is actually being put in place in a structural way to make it effective? There is a working group with the police and young people will be invited, but what will be the framework of this working group? What should he base himself on? What instructions do you give to address this specific problem? I asked the question several times and each time I got answers with nice sentences but which did not indicate what was changing concretely and structurally. You don't answer that question. You don't say what you're changing structurally. Do you at least know what to do? We could speak such fine phrases all day long, but the concrete acts are unfortunately lacking. It becomes a little bit tiring to have to ask questions each time and to receive only big sentences without anything concrete. Nothing has moved since you were posted, no concrete initiatives have been put in place and this continues on the same register. You made these statements a year ago when I questioned you about other facts. There's nothing concrete.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic611x.u13	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed reply. It is clear that you are taking a lot of initiatives to address the concerns expressed in relation to children and young people. I think it is very good that the working group was instructed to develop a child and youth test and to look at adapted protocols and procedures for interventions. This is very important and it is good that young people are involved. For example, it's about how and when nude searches are applied and what one does when young people film with their mobile phones. One of the recommendations of the Flemish Youth Council was about how police officers should respond to this, in order to ensure that the situation does not escalate. The direct dialogue you want to encourage is very good, because the police can explain to the young people why they are doing things in a certain way. This can ensure understanding among young people. I believe in that, as in sports together, another example you gave. Several colleagues have already said that children and young people are different target groups with different needs. So we must not throw everything together. When we talk about young people, we have to do it in a nuanced way. With regard to the distinction between young people in rural and urban areas, it is very important that we do not all see young people coming together in an urban context in public space as hanging young people or as people who cause nuisance. There must be tolerance for the use of public space by young people. Young people themselves can become victims of criminal behaviour and should be able to turn to the police for their own safety. That is why this relationship of trust is essential and important. I agree with colleagues that dialogue between young people and the police must take place in every area. For example, Leuven, a student town with specific problems, has a student cop. That's what they call it. He has his own Facebook page and it is clear to the students and the student associations that they can address that person. You referred to the proximity police. I think that too is very good. Our group supports the use of the police in this way. Finally, I am very pleased to see greater diversity in the police force and the pursuit of anti-racism and anti-discrimination. Especially in an urban context, where there are many cultures and where there is a great diversity among young people, this must be reflected in the police force. More color in the police can only be positive for trust in the police. Young people are also the future police officers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic611x.u14	Thank you, Minister, for all the elements of the answer that you provided to us. I would not dare like Mr Boukili to say that after listening to you, I still do not know what your awareness campaign is! I think it's quite caricatural. That being said, you intend to take good initiatives, it seems to me, on a new ground. It's quite innovative and exciting. Of course, we will have to confront this with the realities on the ground, but I sincerely hope that all the initiatives taken in this campaign will bear fruit. We will certainly have an opportunity to talk about it at a later stage. In any event, I consider that you have answered all the questions I have asked today, and I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic611x.u15	Thank you to the Minister for your response and also for your initiative, which I should like to welcome, while knowing that you have indicated as an introduction that the Task Force's tasks could evolve as required. I believe, however, that the needs have been known for a very long time, namely, to restore trust between the police and young people and to ensure that they do not see each other, as is unfortunately too often the case, as enemies, but rather as allies. I therefore really welcome your working group, as I said, except that I believe that in order for it to be fully effective, we must first ensure that the various age groups are fully taken into account. You have explained to us that the spectrum will be extremely broad from young children to adults of 30 years of age. I did not understand the minimum age of the children who were targeted, which would have been interesting to know. Care should also be taken to ensure that the specific features of each police zone are taken into account in order to allow each police zone to take over, as you have rightly said, the most appropriate arrangements for them, not in the idea of allowing each police zone to shop and decide whether or not it wishes to invest in this strategy, but in order to ensure that this strategy, which must be generalized to all police areas, can be fully effective and adapted to the police zone concerned. But that also requires investment, I think, in the local police and in the peacekeepers. It seems to me that you did not mention this aspect. To involve young people's associations also seems to me to be essential because, even if the issue concerns the whole population, as you have rightly said, it is particularly important to raise awareness among young people, in particular because they have a particular vulnerability to their youth that needs to be taken into account, but also because it is the adults of tomorrow. The aim here is clearly to avoid violence, and we support you in this context. However, care must be taken to combat impunity if violence is committed, both in the police force and among young people.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic611x.u16	Madam Secretary, I am Brussels, I live in Brussels. A few days ago, we learned through the social media and then through the press that several women were the victims of sexual assault in two cafes at the cemetery of Ixelles in Brussels. Those attacks have all taken place in the last five years, which is all the more disturbing. The Brussels Public Prosecutor confirms that it has registered several declarations to date on the grounds of rape and sexual assault and that a judicial investigation has been initiated. On Thursday 17 October 2,000 people took action. They wore signs that said, "Slaughter sacrifice, we believe you, aggressor, we see you! Madam Secretary, how do you explain that so many declarations and attention on social media were needed before the police finally decided to investigate? What do you intend to do to help the victims better, knowing that much was saved in the aid? What means will you use to develop a real plan to combat sexual violence? Yesterday we had a debate around the Criminal Code. This also showed that civil society organisations are calling for more resources. I hope that you will be able to take steps forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic611x.u17	Just over a thousand people demonstrated last Wednesday in the Ixelles Cemetery district, as a result of cases of sexual abuse and rape that have been taking place in the neighbourhood's bars for several years, and which are said to have affected many victims. A federal emergency meeting was convened to recognize the extent of the problem and to be able to expand the fight against sexual assault, particularly in holiday areas, at the federal level. As part of your prerogatives – this emergency meeting being planned with the Minister of Justice, the Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities and Gender – how many victims have filed complaints at this time? Does the police take steps to ensure that all potential victims are informed of their rights and can file a complaint? If so, which ones? In general, what measures will you take to improve the reception of victims of sexual assault in police stations? What measures do you intend to take to improve safety in holiday places? As we know, the government has made the fight against sexual violence a priority. A first act is the Sexual Penal Code under examination in the Justice Committee, but there are obviously other actions, such as front-line training – which is extremely important – in the police stations. Where are you at at that level?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic611x.u18	The context has already been set by my colleagues, with these testimonies of terrible attacks in the Ixelles cemetery district that have truly shaken each and every one of us. These attacks once again raise the question of silence, the isolation of victims, their fear of testifying and daring to cross the doors of a police station. As is well known, less than 4% of victims of sexual assault dare to file a complaint. This silence, however, inevitably leads to impunity in the face of totally unacceptable horrific behaviour. There is therefore a need to create an enabling environment based on three pillars. Sarah Schlitz, Secretary of State for Gender Equality, has called for a meeting with you and your colleague Minister of Justice because the three pillars are: gender equality, i.e. prevention, victim support, support, but also prevention against our fellow citizens in order to prevent these dreadful behaviour from becoming commonplace; the police, in this case the support of the victims, the care and listening of them but also the introduction and follow-up of cases; and, finally, the justice system: ensuring that none of these crimes remain unpunished. This meeting took place yesterday and, in this context, what concrete measures have you put forward with your colleagues? According to what agenda, especially in terms of receiving victims and training of police officers, will you work? Do you intend to take new initiatives coordinated with your colleagues, the Minister of Justice and the Secretary of State for Gender Equality? We'll talk about it again in a few days, but I'd like to get some initial answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic611x.u19	This particular subject echoes the pain, trauma and life injury of victims who have been sexually assaulted by predators who must be apprehended and convicted. This is an extremely sensitive subject to address because it is full of pain, suffering and injury, and we must therefore be sensitive to what we have to say at the political and parliamentary level. As your colleague Secretary of State said, there appears to be an increase in rape and sexual assault in the Brussels region. With regard to Ixelles, the data released in this area would indicate an increase in rape between 2019, 2020 and 2021. There would be a doubling of the number of extra-family rapes between 2019 and 2020 and a new doubling between 2020 and 2021. What figures do you have on the number of rapes in this area in order to be able to confirm these data? Have you received any information on any initiatives that would have been taken by the mayor of Ixelles and the police zone to inform residents and student authorities, in order to further secure this area where predators are active? Is the increase in rape statistics concrete and verified for the years 2019, 2020 and 2021, on the basis of the police reports drawn up in this area of the cemetery of Ixelles, Flagey but also for the whole of Ixelles? I have these figures that have been communicated to me by police officers – who are tired of things moving fast enough, especially with regard to the proactivity of the police zone – but I would like you to confirm them to me because they are terrifying. What can you say about the meeting you had with your colleague Minister of Justice and the Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic611x.u20	Are there other colleagues who wish to join? Mrs Goethals, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic611x.u21	Colleagues have already said a lot, and I will not repeat it. I am particularly concerned about the fact that the first facts date from many years ago. If women complain to a police commissioner, in Elsene or elsewhere, will they be taken seriously? We already know that the threshold is extremely high before a woman complains. Women often feel guilty. If they do take the step to file a complaint, how will they be dealt with? Perhaps people do not always know how to deal with this, and I have every respect for it, but perhaps we should give some thought to the training of police officers. Perhaps a specific person could be appointed, if only to give that specific part of the training. This has happened in Brussels by chance, but it is not an isolated case, because it is happening throughout our country. We cannot put our heads in the sand, because what we know today is just the tip of the iceberg. Of course, you are not the only one who can do something about this, but together with the Minister of Justice you should make urgent work of it. How are the victims succeeded, how do we deal with them and are they respected? This requires victim support, and there are specific training courses for this. Are the victims treated correctly by the persons who receive them?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic611x.u22	What worries me is that when women go to the police commissioner to file a complaint or make a report, it is not always taken seriously. Secretary of State Schlitz said in the newspaper that the chances of a victim making an effective report after seeking help through a Care Center after Sexual Violence (ZSG) are seven times greater than when the same person goes to a police station. I think we should have a thorough analysis of why. I welcome the establishment of these centres of care, but in the meantime, victims of sexual violence must also be properly received in a police station, be able to speak to a sex inspector, or at least someone competent to deal with such complaints. I would like an analysis to be made of the major difference between a complaint submission in a police station and a ZSG. What plans do you have to increase the willingness to report? Do you intend to increase the number of sex inspectors as well? It is often the case that there are no police officers at the reception, but civilian personnel. Can this explain the fact that one is not immediately referred to in order to lodge a complaint, that one cannot immediately speak to a police officer and that one may be sent for walks? I would ask you to look at this very carefully.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic611x.u23	Mrs Vindevoghel, it is certainly true that the investigation of the facts of sexual violence in the home environment has already been initiated by the police and the police for the media attention to these facts, and fortunately. There is already an approach to sexual violence. Since 2017, the police have been participating in the gradual national roll-out of the Care Centres after Sexual Violence, with the intention that every victim, regardless of the time of the facts or on which they register, will have access to the holistic care in a care centre. This is about police assistance, victim treatment, medical supervision and trace research in a new integrated approach. The police commit themselves in the context of these Care Centres after Sexual Violence in cooperation protocols with hospitals and local parquets and under the direction of the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men. Mrs Goethals, it is true that sex inspectors in local police zones are being trained for the first reception of victims of sexual violence. That is indeed a special discipline. I have already been in a number of areas where this is being done and where people choose to train and train people to have that specific background, because those first contacts with the police are very important. It is also a general priority of this government to assist the victims of sexual violence and to draw up a national action plan to combat gender-based violence for this year up to 2025. This isn't just a federal level thing. It is also a task we have with the Communities and the Regions to implement the chain approach. The resources you mentioned, Mrs Vindevoghel, will be discussed and included in the national action plan. There will certainly be further opportunities to ask questions about this later. With regard to your first question, Mrs Matz, I refer you to my colleague the Minister of Justice. In the context of the complaints referred to, the investigation, the communication around them and any calls for witnesses or victims shall be carried out under the responsibility and authority of the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office. In general, police communication refers to the site of sexual violence.be. The website contains the contact details of the centres for the care of victims of sexual violence, information useful for victims and places where they can contact psychologists through anonymous instant messaging. Since the establishment of the three sexual violence centres, hundreds of police officers have received specific nine-day training in the care of these victims. There are currently three centres, but seven more are scheduled to open in the coming years. This was decided by the federal government. The aim is not to have trained police officers in each police station, but to have trained police officers in the care of victims throughout the Kingdom, 24 hours a day and 7 days a week, in order to ensure that each victim can be cared for by a trained police officer. In their basic training, police officers follow a module on victim assistance, in which certain themes are developed, such as sexual violence, domestic violence, hate crimes, etc. Second, there are ongoing training courses that enable police officers to maintain their skills or acquire more skills. In the context of sexual violence care centres, a nine-day approved training course has been held since 2017 for police officers in the care of victims. This training is based on the document No to Violence - Crimes of Mors, developed in 2016 for the entire integrated police, as part of the National Action Plan 2015-2019 for Combating All Forms of Gender-Related Violence. Improving the safety of places of feasts and student circles is primarily the responsibility of local authorities. The problem we are dealing with is very complex. Increased awareness of the target groups targeted by this type of phenomenon is of paramount importance. Mr Ducrame, in the past, where necessary, relevant and possible, the Brussels-Capital-Ixelles police have exchanged information with the ULB on this subject. However, I would like to draw your attention to certain elements that limit or mark communication possibilities. The target audience is not limited to ULB students, but concerns a much wider audience. Based on the facts recorded, modus operandi, victim and author profiles are too diverse to allow targeted communication. The secrecy of the investigation limits the information that the police can provide on their own initiative. Any communication concerning investigations of information or investigation shall be carried out under the responsibility and authority of the competent magistrate. For issues related to the night world, the Night Council has been set up in Ixelles since 2019. At the meetings of the Night Council, sexual violence has already been discussed as well as other topics such as insurance and nuisances. The Brussels-Capital-Ixelles police area has been involved since the end of 2017 in the Centre for Sexual Violence Management (CPVS) and has staff specifically trained in first contact with victims of sexual violence. Victims who go directly to the Centre may choose to file a complaint directly or not. Victims of recent events in our services are brought to the Centre. Indeed, following the detection of this specific issue, a priority area of action was identified by the policy area and patrols were directed there. The neighbourhood inspectors of the police zone have also carried out frequent visits to the various horeca establishments in the area, without discrimination, in order to show an effective police presence on the ground. The purpose of the consultation that took place today is to consult with us on various measures included in the next national action plan against gender-based violence in the light of recent developments. Together with my colleagues in Equal Opportunities and Justice, we will be sure to share the results with you. At this meeting, we agreed on a better diagnosis in order to better record this phenomenon, as it is true that there is a problem between the fact that happens and the recording of the complaint. We need a better diagnosis of the facts and a clear view of the phenomenon. My initiative, that of the Minister of Justice and the Secretary of State, is to do everything possible to combat the rankings of complaints of sexual violence without further action. We also need agreements with the actors on the ground to fight and ensure that the aggressors are prosecuted by the prosecution authorities. In addition, we agreed on the creation of a pilot project for a better articulation of all actors: hospitals, centres against sexual violence to combat black figures. We also need a digital project or tool to make this diagnosis and recording. We will therefore develop tools with the ministers and the competent Secretary of State to combat these black figures. I have already spoken about the specific training of inspectors in local police areas but, more importantly, in health centres and sexual violence centres. This will also strengthen training to provide both professional and multidisciplinary treatment for victims. This applies not only to police officers but also to doctors, social services, etc. and allow us to fight against this phenomenon. Initiatives will be taken. I am confident that we will continue to discuss this important phenomenon, which must certainly be fought forcefully in order to ensure the safety of young girls and other young people in our cities and municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic611x.u24	Madam Minister, thank you for your very detailed response as usual. Of course, I support all initiatives aimed at coordinating actions, whether at federal level and/or with entities, in the fight against sexual violence. But it is clear that at some point, beyond coordination, we must obviously take action. This morning we saw articles in the press that said how far Belgium had not anchored in its heart, whether at the level of the press, the magistrates, the police, all that is sexual violence and all that is received of this violence without giving the victim a double penalty, that of not believing it. There must be a real revolution, at Belgian level, not only in the coordination of all means but also in the establishment and operationalisation of these means. It is essential, whether it be at the level of the judiciary, the police, the awareness of the population, the assistance to all associations that accompany these victims. However, we have a war of delay in this matter. The government has made it a priority. Of course, it takes time to put it in place, to make it happen and see itself. We will not fail to remind you that this is a priority that you have raised, and that the means and actions in this case are necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic611x.u25	Madam Minister, first of all, you mentioned the need to have synergies, to work in a cross-cutting manner, for a fundamental objective: to reduce the black figure. I was just telling you that only 4% of the victims walk through the door of a police station. This black figure gives two indications. On the one hand, too many victims feel unsupported, are isolated, are alone and will have to live their entire lives with this feeling of not being taken care of. We must fight for this feeling to be no longer present in the future. It's important: they're victims. They are under no circumstances responsible for what has happened to them. On the other hand, there are in nature, in our society, too many dreadful delinquents who are, today, unpunished. This sense of impunity is terrible for the victims who face these powerful offenders. It is also a great risk for other women to be victims of the same unacceptable behaviour tomorrow. It is necessary to strengthen the chain at each level to give the clear signal that we do not accept this kind of behavior, that we extend our hand to the victims, that we are there to help them and accompany them in these terribly painful moments, and to give them the courage to denounce what they have suffered. That is how I hope that tomorrow we will have a society that will no longer give way to these acts which are unworthy of every man and woman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic611x.u26	Minister, I am a little surprised by the tone of your answer. I echo what Mr Rigot just said. When I ask a question on such a subject, like my colleagues, I think first of all of the victims. You didn't get a word for the victims. You answer, on such a sensitive subject, completely mechanically, almost disembodied. I find this very surprising for the minister who has the protection of people in this country. I'm a little surprised at a robot response on the subject. On the other hand, minister, I want to thank you for saying that our police officers are trained. No to the caricature of the policeman who is unable to receive humanely someone who files a complaint! Our police officers are trained and, moreover, they are people who receive victims with great humanity, even though there are still a number of efforts to be made in this area. I'm joining Mrs. Matz who says we have to take action. If, in an area as small as that, from 19 to 21, the number of rapes is tripled, there is a problem. It would still be a matter of holding this police area to account. You told me we couldn't communicate in a targeted way. All right! In any case, it cannot be said that their policies of security, prevention or information have borne fruit. If the executive is somewhat in favour of this, I, as the President of the Commission responsible for accompanying Committee P and Committee R, will ask the P Committee for an action, no doubt an investigation, on the work of this police area in relation to which I have other figures, which are even more tense in terms of increasing rapes outside the family. I do believe that, in a number of areas, it is time to take action.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic611x.u27	Madam Minister, what has happened and what happens repeatedly in neighbourhoods in Brussels or throughout the country is dramatic. Not all the victims identify themselves, do not dare to press charges; I agree here with my colleague, Hervé Rigot. In doing so, the perpetrators of the horrific acts remain in total impunity. We are all affected by this situation. I would like to stress that this concerns all the cities in this country, whether it be Louvain, Ghent, Charleroi, Brussels, etc. Unfortunately, this is an extremely widespread and widespread phenomenon in the night world, in particular. This must concern us all. I would also like to highlight a few points and bounce back on your answer, minister. The centres for dealing with sexual violence will be strengthened thanks to your action, but also thanks to the action of the Minister of Justice and the Secretary of State, Mrs Schlitz. We will also extend the centre of the St. Peter's Hospital in Brussels; it is in preparation. There is a national action plan to combat gender-based violence; it was a government priority long before last week's demonstrations, and fortunately. In particular, this has already led to the training of 1,700 magistrates, which, if I am well informed, represents half of the magistrates throughout the country. It's colossal. This training effort must continue. This must also be the case for the police. There is never too much training at this level. I would now like to respond to the comments made by some colleagues, including the one who spoke just before me. The police area is not inactive. We can always do better. It's important to do better and take care of things. But in this case, the facts are too serious to point the finger at either area or one or the other political leader. Whether it is for the police zone, whether it is for the mayor of Ixelles, the fight against sexual violence is a priority, since long before the acts and demonstrations that took place last week. This is a priority of the zonal security plan 2020-2025. A Night Council has been set up and has met again in recent days to discuss this issue in Ixelles and Brussels City. The testimonies flow and increase. As you said, Madam Minister, when management improves, more and more testimonies are coming. That is the case today. Does this mean that the number of attacks has increased or does it mean that the victims dare, at last, to bring their words to bear as victims? The two phenomena certainly intersect, and the testimonies flow from the whole Region. It was important to say so in order not to analyse the problem with a purely political look, but with a willingness to provide real answers to this dramatic situation. On behalf of my group, I encourage you, Madam Minister, to do more, as must be the case at all levels of power. As ecologists, that's the message we're going to carry.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic611x.u28	Madam Minister, there is an urgent need for a good action plan to reduce the thresholds for reporting. Not only should the registration system be facilitated, there should be almost a promotional campaign, although of course we cannot call it that and I do not want to call it that. My daughter's at the VUB. It concerns all these students. They are very closely involved, they know those cafes, they already went there to eat with friends. They are in a situation today that they are no longer able to get out. I'm very sorry about that, because those students have had two years of corona. They didn't have anything. Life is finally starting to get back on track. They're finally getting out, and now they're afraid to go. That's not fun for anyone. It's urgent time for action. We must not forget that we are talking about raped girls here, but let us also remember that some boys, and more than we think, are being raped. It's about man and not just about woman or man. We must not lose sight of that either.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic611x.u29	Mr President, Madam Minister, you are aware that the court of first instance in Namur sentenced the Belgian State on 8 September 2007 to adopt the royal decree implementing article 67, paragraph 3, of the law of 15 May 2007 on relief services within nine months of the service of the judgment, under penalty of a penalty payment of 1,500 euros per day of delay. As a reminder, this article affirms that as long as the ratio between the means of the communal and federal authorities provided for under the law is not equal to one, the communes of an area will not, together, have to contribute more in real terms than their present contribution. The King shall determine by deliberate decree in the Council of Ministers, after hearing the representatives of the cities and municipalities, this ratio as at 31 December 2007 and the items of income and expenditure that are relevant to the calculation of this ratio. Minister, in 2007, I was on the benches of the minority as today. At the time, I was the only one in my party to vote in favour of this reform, largely because your predecessor of the time, Mr. Patrick Dewael, guaranteed me to reach 50/50 very quickly. As you can read in the judgment, this order of execution is essential to share in a fair manner the financing of the relief zones between the federal state and the communes, in accordance with the legal prescription. Therefore, Minister, what follow-up does the federal state intend to make to this judgment? What is the status of the drafting of the royal decree that gave rise to the conviction? I know that one of your predecessors had already prepared a royal decree, but it was never approved. Your predecessor had indicated that 75 per cent of the costs of relief services were borne by the municipalities and 25 per cent by the federal government. How can you arrive at this ratio if the order that is used to determine the revenue and expenditure items to calculate the ratio has never been adopted to date? I look forward to your answers, Madam Minister, and I would like to encourage you in this operation to finally achieve what is provided for in the Act of 15 May 2007.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic611x.u30	Mr President, Madam Minister, on 8 September last the Court of First Instance of Namur condemned the Belgian State for failing to comply with its obligation to finance the relief zones. Indeed, while the law requires the federal State to contribute 50 per cent of this funding, the royal decree to fulfil this obligation has never been made. In fact, the federal government is involved in the financing of relief areas only up to about 13 to 18 per cent, leaving the rest to the municipalities and the provinces. This has concrete consequences and explains the lack of resources in our relief areas. The Walloon government has recently decided to place this burden on those provinces that do not have the means to do so. According to the CGSP, this situation endangers firefighters' jobs and missions. According to Laurent Dufrasne, permanent at CGSP Admi, job losses are inevitable. Serge Deprez of the CSC agrees. Minister, are you committed to respecting this judgment and to funding up to 50% of the relief areas, as required by law, and within what time frame? If not, for what reason?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic611x.u31	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Article 67(2) of the Civil Security Act of 15 May 2007 provides that as long as the ratio between the resources of the municipal and federal authorities provided for under this Act is not equal to one, the municipalities of an area will not, together, have to contribute more in real terms than their present contribution. The King shall determine by deliberate decree in the Council of Ministers, after hearing the representatives of the cities and municipalities, this ratio as at 31 December 2007 and the items of income and expenditure that are relevant to the calculation of this ratio. It follows that the judgment of the Namur court will be enforced by the adoption of a royal decree setting out the revenue and expenditure items that are relevant to the calculation of the ratio between the federal means and the means of the communal authorities as at 31 December 2007. As I have already had the opportunity to say on several occasions, the principle of 50-50 must be framed. The aim is to ensure that municipalities are not financially subject to the obligations imposed by the Federal State. This principle is therefore essentially a guarantee for municipalities that they will pay no more for fire services than they paid for when they went to emergency areas. The law therefore does not require the federal state to reach 50-50, but requires it to compensate for the additional costs. It is up to the Federal State to adopt the Royal Decree implementing article 67 of the Civil Security Act of 15 May 2007 within the prescribed time limit of nine months from the date of service of the judgement by the Namur Court. At this moment, I am still considering the possibility of appealing the judgement. The process of drafting the Royal Decree is under way. As soon as my administration has made a proposal to me with the revenue and expenditure items that are included in the calculation of the ratio between the federal means and the means of the communal authorities as at 31 December 2007, in accordance with Article 67, the file will be submitted for opinion to the Commission accompanying the reform of civil security created by the Act of 15 May 2007. In this way, all relevant bodies will be consulted, including representatives of the Unions of Cities and Municipalities, Relief Areas and Regions. As for your question about the numbers previously provided by my predecessors, I can tell you that they were based on the amount of federal endowments charged to the Home SPF appropriations to provide their responses. They have therefore given the ratio between communal endowments and federal endowments, which is possible without resorting to the implementation of the above-mentioned article 67. However, the determination of the revenue and expenditure items referred to in section 67 does not include only federal staffing. The calculations of my predecessors will therefore have to be refined once these posts have been established. The resumption of the funding of relief areas by the provinces is a decision of the Walloon government that falls outside my jurisdiction. Work on the implementation of section 67 on the safety of the Act began with the adoption of the Act but did not initially succeed, owing to uncertainty as to the date of the integration of fire services into emergency areas. Once that uncertainty had been removed, priority had been given to drafting the necessary orders to enable the relief zones to function. Thus, most of the decrees implementing the Act of 15 May 2007 were adopted in 2013 but especially in the course of 2014. Secondly, the priority was to accompany the relief zones in their first steps and to finalize the final texts necessary for the proper functioning of the relief zones. Finally, the current business period from December 2018 to October 2020 did not allow progress on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic611x.u32	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I'm a little surprised that you're thinking about appealing since the judgement only takes up what is contained in the original law of 15 May 2007. If I passed this law in 2007, it was because the 50/50 was planned not by you who were not yet in the government at the time, but by your predecessor, Patrick Dewael, that we all know in this house. With regard to the taking of this royal decree, you say that you are going to refine it. Yes, but still take into account all the real costs that the communes have to incur! I remember that a number of years ago a royal decree was in preparation and that in this royal decree were taken up norms that had virtually nothing to do with the financing of the zones. Thankfully, let this concern the financing of the zones so as not to artificially increase the participation of the Federal State! That's always the danger, but I trust you. Madam Minister, even if we are both centrists, I will still table a small motion not of distrust, rest assured, but of a recommendation that "requests the government, first, to take a royal order in concert with the Union of Cities and Municipalities which determines the revenue and expenditure items that are relevant to the calculation of the total cost of the implementation of the law of 15 May 2007 on civil security and thus to have the official figures; second, to gradually make a 50/50 ratio between the means of the federal authority and those of the municipal authorities in the financing of civil security by substantially increasing the federal allocations to the 34 relief zones". It is, Madam Minister, a matter of allocating a budget, according to all our theoretical calculations, higher than what was announced by you a few months ago. I know that significant efforts have been made and I thank you for that, but I would like to see this matter concluded in this Parliament. We have two and a half years left. I hope they will be enough for us, all together, to celebrate the success of this operation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic611x.u33	Mr. Chair, Madam Minister, like my previous colleague, I do not understand that you are considering appealing the court decision, since it is only asking for the application of the law. It was also a commitment of Mr Dewael, at the time this law was passed, that the 50/50 ratio would be guaranteed. In fact, if this judgment exists, and if a complaint has been filed by one of the actors on the ground, it is in relation to the reality of the ground. The fact that the federal government is failing to meet its 50/50 commitment has concrete consequences on the ground. In Binche, when a fire occurred right next to the barracks, they had to call the firemen of La Louvière, because there were not enough staff. This is the implication of the federal failure to meet its commitments. Minister, when I asked you about this, you couldn't even tell me how much the federal government is funding today, because it wasn't clear. The law is clear. What we're asking you is just to enforce the law. As my colleague said, you were not there when this law was passed; but today there is a judgment. Your role, and the role of government, is to enforce the law. That is why we are voting for laws, for them to be respected. That's the least I can do. I recall, especially after the disasters that our country has experienced, that this lack of funding has real consequences on the ground. Lives are at stake. The lack of staff, the lack of resources, and the lack of equipment lead to disasters. I don't see why, instead of thinking about appealing the judgment, you're not thinking about how the federal government could assume its responsibility to fund the 50% areas. I think things are clear. The answer should normally be as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic611x.u34	Madam Minister, thank you. I was in the room next door but my collaborator took note of your answers, allowing me to respond with full knowledge of the matter. Your will to appeal the judgment is a question to me. I call on you to respect your commitment announced in committee on 1 September and which you reiterated during our exchange of views with the various ministers on flood management. At that time, you explained that you had launched a public procurement to conduct an analysis of the civil protection reform. Irrespective of the legal outcome of this case, Parliament and the government will have to work hand in hand to objectiveise the consequences of this reform, in particular on the time frame for intervention in the affected areas and therefore on the results of these floods. This is really fundamental and we all agree on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic611x.u35	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Josy Arens and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mr Josy Arens and the response of the Minister for the Interior and Institutional Reforms, - having regard to Article 67 (3) of the Civil Security Act of 15 May 2007, which empowers the King to determine the revenue and expenditure items taken into account to calculate the share of the federal government and that of the municipalities in the financing of civil security, - having regard to the judgment of 8 September of the Court of First Instance of Namur, which condemns the Belgian State to issue, within nine months of service of the judgment, a penalty payment of EUR 1,500 per day of delay; asks the government - to implement Article 67 of the Civil Security Act of 15 May 2007, - to issue, in consultation with cities and municipalities, a royal decree determining the revenue and expenditure items to be taken into account to calculate the overall cost picture for the implementation of the Civil Security Act of 15 May 2007 and thus to have official figures, - to evolve over the current parliamentary term towards a 50/50 ratio between the resources of the federal government and those of the municipal authorities in the financing of civil security by substantially increasing the federal contribution to the 34 relief zones. This amounts to the allocation of a larger budget envelope than that announced by the Minister of the Interior." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Josy Arens and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr Josy Arens and the response of the Minister of the Interior and Institutional Reforms, - having regard to article 67, paragraph 3, of the Law of 15 May 2007 on Civil Security, which empowers the King to determine the revenue and expenditure items that are relevant to the calculation of the share of the Federal State and that of the municipalities in the financing of civil security; - having regard to the judgment of the Court of First Instance of Namur of 8 September, which ordered the Belgian State to adopt the aforementioned order within 9 months of service of the judgment on pain of a penalty payment of EUR 1,500 per day of delay; asks the government - to implement article 67 of the Civil Security Act of 15 May 2007; - to take a royal decree, in consultation with the unions of the cities and communes, which determines the revenue and expenditure items which are included in the calculation of the total cost of implementing the Act of 15 May 2007 on civil security and thus to have the official figures available; - gradually during the current parliamentary term to a ratio of 50/50 between the means of the federal authority and those of the municipal authorities in the financing of civil security by substantially increasing the federal allocations to the 34 relief zones, which amounts to granting a budget greater than what was announced by the Minister of the Interior." A simple motion was tabled by Mr Franky Demon. A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Franky Demon. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic611x.u36	Mr President, Minister, after the Taliban took over power in Afghanistan, our country evacuated 1,400 people from the country. To this end, the so-called Red Kite operation was launched. The fact that this exercise was largely a success was due to the good cooperation between all the different services. This could include the services of Foreign Affairs and Defence, but also the National Crisis Centre (NCCN) and the federal police. Madam Secretary, from when did the NCCN become involved in the preparation of Operation Red Kite? What role did the NCCN play in that evacuation mission? To what extent has the NCCN contributed to the success of Operation Red Kite? What role has the federal police played in Operation Red Kite in the army barracks of Peutie, where the evacuated persons had to undergo some checks? Was the federal police there? For what reason did the local police have to vouch for some of the security orders there?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic611x.u37	Mr President, Mr Demon, the first major coordination meeting with all relevant services and authorities at the NCCN took place on 19 August. During the Red Kite operation itself, a coordination meeting took place almost daily, in which the Crisis Centre was responsible for the organisation, Presidency and secretariat of the various coordination meetings. Furthermore, the Crisis Centre has mainly functioned as an information crossroads, both between the Belgian services concerned and with the other European countries concerned. All information on the flights, passenger lists and the results of the screenings was centralized by the Crisis Centre's permanence and shared in real time with the partner services, including Foreign Affairs, Defence, the police, the OCAD, the intelligence services, the DVZ, Public Health and some ministerial cabinets. The centralisation of information flows has facilitated and optimised communication between the various actors. Coordination by the Crisis Centre was therefore essential for the success of the operation. All members of the Crisis Centre should be expressly thanked for this. Of course, the federal and local police also made an important contribution. The federal police were responsible for coordinating police operations for the reception and supervision of the arrival of the evacuated persons at Melsbroek airport, including the escort of the evacuated persons from the airport to the Peutie barracks, as well as the organisation and implementation of border controls in the Peutie military barracks where the people arrived, and for monitoring and monitoring during the course of the checks in the barracks. The local police in turn vouched for the traffic regulations on the territory of the police zones concerned, including when family members or friends came to pick up the persons concerned, for the supervision in the area around the barracks and for the handling and recording of the check-out of the evacuated, at the end of the checks and at the departure from the military barracks. The local police area has the necessary contacts with local transport companies to get the evacuated to leave the barracks quickly and efficiently. That was also necessary, because agreements had to be made with those taxi services. At the same time, the National Coordinator for Victim Treatment in the Federal Police Department was asked to assist the Red Cross in the reception of the victims and the evacuated. This resulted in the deployment of both federal and local police, with social assistants at the Halle-Vilvoorde, Leuven and Brussels zones taking initiatives for several days to meet the Red Cross' demand, including providing assistance, initial assistance to refugees and informing people about the procedures to be followed. The good cooperation between the departments, administrations and Cabinets involved has made the Red Kite operation work on our territory. Once again, I would like to thank all the services for this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic611x.u38	Mr President, Minister, the answers are clear. I too congratulate the services.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic611x.u39	On Monday 20 September, you had a discussion with the Austrian Minister for the Interior, Mr Nehammer, on Afghanistan, terrorism and the strengthening of the Schengen area. Following recent developments in Afghanistan, the European Commission has announced that a situation such as that in 2015 cannot be repeated. The EU Commission President, Mrs von der Leyen, said that Europe has a moral duty to provide shelter for all those in need of protection. The EU Commissioner for Asylum and Migration, Ms Ylva Johansson, made a similar appeal. Several countries, including Hungary, Poland, the Czech Republic, Denmark and Austria, strongly rejected this call and opposed the voluntary inclusion of even more Afghans, either under resettlement programmes or through so-called humanitarian migration corridors. One of the most fervent opponents of the current EU policy in this area is the Austrian Minister for the Interior and Christian Democrat Nehammer, with whom you had an extensive discussion. He clearly stated that the European Commission is constantly sending the wrong message and called the transfer of thousands and thousands of Afghans to Europe very short-sighted and ideologically misleading policies that could be dangerous for Europe. Chancellor Kurz even added to it and pointed out the very difficult, if not impossible, integration of many Afghan migrants and asylum seekers. As an agreement proved unfeasible, reception in Europe remains an option, but each country decides on resettlement. In this context, your Secretary of State and fellow party, Mr Mahdi, stated that each country can offer specific protection and that Belgium does so. If we are well informed, the European Commission expects each Member State to report how many resettlement places are being made available, not just for Afghans, but in general. As part of your discussion with Minister Nehammer, you were undoubtedly informed about the Belgian position on the resettlement of Afghans. Will Belgium provide additional places for resettlement and/or humanitarian visa programmes for Afghans? If so, how many? How many additional places are we talking about? How did your discussion with Minister Nehammer on the Afghan issue go specifically? How do you explain the fundamentally different views of Austria and Belgium on the resettlement of Afghans? However, both governments are put together in a similar way.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic611x.u40	Your last sentence is interesting. I'll think about it further. Despite your question of admission and the political aspect, which is primarily the responsibility of the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, I can confirm that it seems obvious that recent events in Afghanistan and their impact on the EU were discussed during the discussion I had with my colleague Nehammer on 20 September in Vienna. During that discussion, Minister Nehammer indeed reiterated the Austrian position not to include additional asylum seekers from Afghanistan and therefore not to offer places for resettlement. Mr Nehammer referred, this is important to underline, to the large number of asylum seekers that Austria has taken in since 2015, which has resulted in Austria having the second largest Afghan community in Europe. That is why Minister Nehammer advocated that, in this crisis, all those involved in the region of Afghanistan should be protected in the first instance. More generally, he also addressed the Austrian position on European asylum and migration policy. He reiterated the well-known Austrian priorities such as the strong external borders, a theme also raised at European consultations. He also referred to faster procedures and a more efficient return policy, on which Member States agree. For the Belgian positions on this issue, including those on Afghan refugees, I would like to refer you to the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration. For the sake of completeness, I would also like to inform you that the discussion I had with Minister Nehammer also dealt with the support that our country had received from Austria following the great flood in July and cooperation in the fight against terrorism and organised crime.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic611x.u41	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. You say that Austria will no longer accept additional asylum seekers. We have heard this in the media. You also say that Minister Nehammer said this is because Austria already has a large Afghan community and has done more than its part in the past in the field of asylum reception, especially when it comes to Afghans. However, these two arguments are perfectly applicable to Belgium, Madam Minister. I wonder why we in Belgium do not arrive at exactly the same conclusion as your Christian Democrat colleagues from Austria, because the arguments are perfectly applicable to both countries. You then referred to the desire for an efficient return policy. I hope Karl Nehammer was well informed about the measures taken by your government in this matter. I hope he has put his finger on you there, because the return policy in Belgium will be even worse in the future than it has been in the past. This will put the whole of the European Union, including Austria, at a disadvantage. For many of my questions, please refer to the competence of your colleague, Secretary of State Mahdi. During the discussion with Karl Nehammer, you probably did not refer to your colleague, Mr Mahdi, on all these issues, because in that discussion you may have expressed and defended the government's position. It is a pity that you do not do that in this committee. I will certainly address Secretary of State Mahdi as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic611x.u42	Mrs Platteau is not present for her question 55021042C. Mrs Chanson is not present for her question 55021282C. As a result, the questions are without object.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic611x.u43	Madam Secretary, almost day by day six years ago, the 12-year-old Merel De Prins was killed by a driver who had already been convicted 18 times for driving without a driver's license. That cannot be explained, and yet this is happening more in this country. Police forces in Belgium still have to keep a driver standing to check the driver's license manually, which makes for a far too small chance of getting caught. Six years after that tragic incident, that can no longer be explained. That is also why, in October 2020, I tabled a motion for a resolution with my colleague Raskin to link the Mercurius database of driving licences through the DIV with the ANPR network. We want to do so, because this can increase the chances of recidivism of such recidivists. A few weeks after we submitted our proposal, you took over our idea in your policy statement, in which you said you wanted to optimise the fight against traffic infringements and to better protect vulnerable road users. At that time, you explicitly suggested linking the Mercury database to the ANPR network in order to allow drivers without a valid driving licence to stand faster. We were particularly pleased that our proposal would be accepted by the government, even without being discussed in the Chamber. We are exactly a year later and I would like to hear where you stand with the roll-out of that initiative.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic611x.u44	Madam Minister, in an increasingly globalised world and in a Europe where internal borders become one after the other simply theoretical, it would seem that some malicious individuals are too easily escaping the surveillance of our police services. As you know, ANPR cameras could help stem this phenomenon by allowing our police officers to follow more easily the journey of any suspect. Moreover, these cameras also have a second virtue, that of being also very useful in the context of road safety by acting as radar section for example. Unfortunately, they are not free from defects. In particular, they may affect privacy. When installing ANPR cameras, it is therefore essential to respect the rules in order to limit the possible consequences that these cameras may have on the privacy of citizens. What is your general opinion about the deployment of this network of cameras? What consultation is there with other relevant levels of government? Is a budget for this purpose planned or on track at the federal level? In terms of privacy protection - this is a particular topic in this issue - what safeguards are in place for the use of this type of cameras in Belgium? Indeed, the establishment of the 4,000 ANP cameras distributed in the various regions of the Kingdom raises a number of concerns, notably on the part of the Police Information Review Body. These concerns come from Mr Stéphane De Prost, the investigator in this body. Indeed, it would appear that some police areas are still using their local databases while they are now expected to work with the only large national database. It is therefore easy to understand that such behaviour can distort and diminish the effectiveness of the system. Minister, what do you intend to do to encourage these different areas to reach the national database exclusively? Moreover, the police are legally obliged to erase after some time the information of their black list, which they do not always do. Suspicious vehicles can thus be detected on an illegal basis. How do you intend to prevent these drifts, and in your opinion, should the law be amended to lengthen this time? Finally, could you tell us about the progress of the privacy impact assessments that all areas are required to carry out? What are the possible results? In advance, Madam Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic611x.u45	All the initiatives aimed at reducing the number of road accidents are always my focus. Of course, I didn't miss the anniversary of Merel De Prins' unfortunate accident. My thoughts are with those who still have to miss her every day. In the fight against road accidents and for improving road safety, the fight against driving while the right to drive has been denied cannot of course be missed. But those who have been deprived of the right to steer can still borrow a car from someone else, regardless of whether they live under the same roof or not. In any case, it is always the driver who has been denied the right to steer, who has to answer to the police. In addition, persons living in the same household cannot be monitored through their license plate in case a roommate would drive their car. This would potentially constitute a disproportionate breach of the privacy and freedom of movement of those concerned for whom the right to control does not lapse. In addition, this approach would not be conclusive either, because, apart from the use of the car of family members living under one roof, there are many other possibilities for using a car other than their own. Of course, we must do everything we can to increase road safety, but we must be able to work within a legal framework and with the necessary proportionality. At the moment, the absolute priority is to ensure that on-site crews have immediate up-to-date driver information available. For this reason, the link between the Mercury database and the Focus application is made. The teams on site have instant access to the latest data in Mercury. In the past year, Portal's application has already enabled us to consult the databases of withdrawn driving licences in real time, so that checks can be made easier and faster. Mr Senesael, the ANPR system was initially conceived as a means of combating terrorism and serious crime. To this end, the first camera network was established very quickly at the borders of the country and at certain seaports and airports. Subsequently, a new specification was published, resulting in a network of nationally-covered cameras, which will eventually include more than 4,000 cameras. This network already has more than 13,000 police users and many features such as blacklisting and turntable radars. Various political levels have invested in this ANPR network to serve the competences assigned to them, in particular in the areas of administrative police, road safety and traffic flow. From the outset, a multi-year interdepartmental appropriation was budgeted for the project. This makes it possible to invest at different levels. Recently, additional funding has also been provided for the recruitment of 35 full-time staff to strengthen regional treatment centres. Privacy is essential. The police are subject to a strict regulatory framework, in particular with regard to the processing of personal data which must be adequate, relevant and not excessive. This means that data processing must be limited to what is strictly necessary to achieve well-defined objectives. In addition, the use of ANPR data has been included in the Police Function Act. A data protection impact assessment for the operation of the AMS was drafted in 2019 and is transmitted to the Control Body. Another guarantee of privacy is section 44 of the Police Function Act. It provides for a 12-month retention period for data contained in technical databases. The data are no longer stored in the national technical database but are automatically deleted after this period. The list of vehicles or registration plates that are correlated with the national technical database consists of vehicles and registration plates for which there is a measure to be taken. As long as the action to be taken is in force, it obviously remains on the list. Ad hoc lists may also be drawn up in connection with an event in accordance with the provision. Finally, I can also say that local technical databases are provided for by law. Their use is not prohibited anywhere. The national technical database tries to meet the needs of local police areas as much as possible, but there may be very specific local needs for which a local technical database is required.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic611x.u46	Madam Minister, I am truly disappointed by and surprised by the frivolity of your reply. I also understand that we will not close all the loopholes with the proposal. I worked in the Home Office for four years, and we tried to close as many holes as we could every day. There's no such thing as a final approach, but that's no excuse to do nothing like you do. You say that there will be a link between Mercury and Focus, but with that you will tell people vesicles. Focus is an interface that allows Mercury to be read by the police in a mobile way. That is not a link between databases, which can increase the chances of getting caught by the multi-stakeholders. So that is a very lean answer, which I remember in particular that you will not comply with our resolution and that you will not keep your word. You promised last year that you would work on the link between the Mercury database and the ANPR network, but after a year you did nothing, but you did nothing. That's all I remember about this. I will therefore also retable the motion for a resolution which I prepared with Mr Raskin last year. Last year, because of your policy paper, it was supposedly without a subject, but it is clearly necessary again.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic611x.u47	Mr. Chair, Madam Minister, thank you for your response. Given the positive features developed by the 4,000 ANPR cameras that will be developed in the future, this news is reassuring for the various areas you have mentioned, especially since the commitment of the thirty-five new full-time jobs to enable analysis of the different results is a positive point to be stressed. I hear your different thoughts about privacy. I will allow myself to carefully review your various elements of the answer and eventually come back to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic611x.u48	Mr President, Mrs Platteau, with regard to your question, I can inform you that three police officers have been transferred to the UZ Brussels in Jette, where they have undergone the necessary medical examinations. Police inspectors have also been able to use the support of the help team of the Brussels-West police zone. That help team consists of a group of colleagues who assist in critical incidents involving police inspectors. The following days were also provided with social psychological assistance, with contact at regular intervals. A number of police officers also reached out to the stress team of the federal police, which is available 24 hours a day and 7 days a day in this type of crisis incident or event. A number of social workers and psychologists have been specially trained to deal with this problem. It goes without saying that this assistance is free of charge for the police people involved. In the absence of more than 45 days, a visit to the occupational physician is always scheduled. He or she will then give an opinion on the resumption or possible adjustment of the colleague's activities. In this context, it is also appropriate to reiterate the campaign on mutual respect, which should improve the situation of aggression and violence. The aim of the campaign is to restore the relationship of trust, but also to provide information and raise awareness, both with regard to the citizens and also with regard to the police. They will be framed with the necessary guidelines and recommendations to find their way when faced with aggression or violence.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic611x.u49	Madam Secretary, it is good to hear that, after such serious acts of violence, policemen can go to the various services you mentioned. We were talking about well-being at work yesterday. I also believe that it is essential for police officers to work on their well-being and possible reintegration in every possible way after such facts.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic611x.u50	Mr President, I refer to the question that has been put.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic611x.u51	First of all, I would like to point out that a distinction should be made between the radio network of the security services' emergency line and the actual telephone architecture and the dispatching tools of the emergency power stations 101 and 112. Both services, i.e. the network and the architecture, are separate. The radio network did not have to deal with a technical breakdown on 13 September. There have been technical failures at emergency power stations 101 and 112. These plants are equipped with various applications, in particular for call-taking and dispatching applications. On 13 September, the emergency power stations 101 and 112 operating on the ASTRID architecture were delayed throughout the country. The 112 emergency power stations under the administration of the FPS Home Affairs, which are the 112 power stations of Limburg, Antwerp, Liège and Hainaut, remained out of the question. The interference started at 9:15 in the morning. At 11.20 p.m., the impact was gradually reduced and all systems were restored during the afternoon. It is important to know that, apart from Luxembourg's 112 emergency power station, citizens have been able to reach 101 and 112 during that period. Only Luxembourg's emergency power station had difficulties in receiving calls between 10 a.m. and 11.00 a.m. As a result of the malfunction, integrated telephony could no longer be used in certain work stations at the level of call-taking and dispatching. This means, in concrete terms, that at that time people had to physically pick up the phone at the workplace and could not make use of the underlying architecture. The integrated radio was also not available and so it was necessary to use mobile radio stations for communication on the ground. After an analysis, it was found that the malfunction was caused by an overload of the systems, coupled with a defective application. A solution is currently being developed to enable rapid action to be taken in future, i.e. at the moment when such a problem occurs, so that the system does not fail.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic611x.u52	Madam Secretary, I am glad to hear that the impact was not global after all. It's been limited to two hours and not everything has been flattened. Overload can sometimes occur in obsolete networks. I hope that there will be an upgrade from the network, because this defect shows that data communication, telephony and so on are crucial in providing assistance. Otherwise, no calls can be accepted and no effective work can be done on the ground either.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic611x.u53	On 5 May I asked you a question about the NAVAP scheme. You replied that by the autumn you would come up with a solution together with the Minister for Pensions. Can you give us an explanation? I understand that the matter has been moved to next year. What will the main lines be?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic611x.u54	Mr Metsu is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic611x.u55	Madam Minister, you explained some of this during the discussion of the budget last week, after the Prime Minister had referred my question to you expertly. At that time, you took a hint of the veil and mentioned that you were negotiating with the police unions, not only about NAVAP, but also about the career arrangements. Yesterday, moreover, we discussed it in committee in the context of the attractiveness of the police. However, there is still concern on the ground. Today you were allowed to receive a visit from some 350 angry police officers, who fear that the NAVAP regime will go down and that the career negotiations will not go down as they think they should. You have already explained the structure of the scheme. For 2022, the scheme will be safeguarded and by 2023 it will be phased out, but with respect for alternatives, in negotiations with the trade unions. What timing do you put first? You're negotiating with the police unions. When do you plan to land?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic611x.u56	Mr President, Madam Minister, my question is in the same direction. We've already talked about it. You have already given some answers to this question. You've repeated that you're in discussion with the police. When I talk to the police, they tell me they don't want to discuss this right now. Madam Minister, I would like to update the situation, since there have been various reflections in the meantime. I think you're aware that police officers have again demonstrated today to denounce the fact that we're discussing these elements when there's nothing concrete about career ends for arduous trades. I repeat my question: do you not think it would be wiser to abandon this reform and this discussion, which the unions do not want to hear about? They would be willing to discuss real reform in Committee A; but they do not want to discuss NAPAP before that. I would like to have a clearer answer at this level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic611x.u57	We have already had a debate on this subject, with the same questions and themes. I would like to keep you brief on everything that is evolving in that area, but you will not be surprised that this is not a world of difference compared to yesterday. NAVAP was a temporary arrangement pending a general arrangement. As a result, the discussion on the NAVAP scheme is repeated at each budgetary conclave. It is good, as I said, that we have already clarified next year's funding at the latest budget conclave, unlike 2021, so that local authorities already have clarity today. I would like to repeat that we have made every effort, within our competence, to make clear long-term commitments, in the interests of the police and taking into account the police capacity and, of course, the proportional budgetary approach of NAVAP. For next year, both federal and local police will be compensated for the NAVAP watch money to be paid to the NAVAP takers. At the same time, it was agreed that this is no surprise, because we had already made that agreement earlier in order to keep the scheme itself under review. I have already said that the aim cannot be to take up a pension or leave prior to retirement as soon as possible; NAVAP is a component in a comprehensive career policy with the police. Mr Boukili, I am convinced that steps must be taken to ensure that police personnel can continue to work beyond the age of 58. This is primarily for the police themselves, who can continue to perform a fulfilling function, and also for the capacity of the police. Even if we recruit extra, if there are more movers, there remains a deficit. Police personnel, even after the age of 58, have experience and expertise. It would be a shame to lose that experience and expertise for the organisation. Even though certain interventions or tasks after a certain age are no longer so obvious, it does not mean that older staff no longer have any added value for the police. That was also the subject of the debate we have had in recent days with the local and federal police and the trade unions. I am convinced that there are many possibilities and that we need to find systems so that policemen can complete their careers in a role that suits both the person concerned and the federal and local police forces. Today, although they can work with NAVAP, they can continue to work longer. I'm sure there might be more. Then we must have the debate on the framework, workable work for all age groups, leadership and the organisation itself. I refer to yesterday's debate on mobility between different services. Mr Depoostere, in reply to your question, I would like to nuance something. The notification of the budgetary conclave does not include the abolition of the system from 2023. What has been agreed is that the system, which was already deafening in any case, should be looked at in the light of the practice of keeping as many people working with workable work as possible, and that we should examine how we can combine measures to this end. Mr Boukili, it is not either one or the other. This is a discussion to be discussed at the same time. I believe that with the police and the unions - including the police officers who have demonstrated today - we can achieve a result.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic611x.u58	Madam Minister, we need to close the loophole in the current NAVAP regime. That back door is that for those who requested NAVAP, but still continue to work on the premises, the police zones do not receive NAVAP-funds. I call that double-crayon writing. I think that provision should be removed. We are not in favour of the bridge pension scheme and we believe that it should be eliminated. I would like to make it clear that if the regime is ever abolished, the police areas concerned will still be compensated for the police people who are in NAVAP today. You agree that 58-year-old policemen with incredible expertise and added value are probably no longer efficient in intervention teams. However, they can still be efficient at the school gate or as a district agent. It would be a shame to lose those policemen. Maybe it's an opportunity to let them flow to other jobs outside the police, where they can also have added value. The government's creed is "more people at work." In that light, we cannot send policemen with a bridge pension.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic611x.u59	Madam Secretary, I am sorry, but I submitted my question on 5 October. She's just been scheduled, but that's not directly due to myself. It was always envisaged that a general end-of-life scheme would be introduced, and NAVAP might then be revised. Now people turn the roles around, or they give that impression. They want to adapt NAVAP first and then work on a general end-of-life scheme. Madam Minister, we must not change the rules halfway, because then you will of course encounter a lack of understanding among those involved. However, I welcome your statement that you want to take into account the functions of some police officers, for example those in an intervention service. This also fits in with the general discussion on the heavy professions, but I do not want to drive the discussion that far. Of course, it is rather weedy that someone who has been active in an intervention team for 30 years may be entitled to the NAVAP scheme. Mr Vandenput, I do not know whether there would be a lot of people in the intervention service who would suddenly have to stand in front of a school gate after 30 years of hard work. Frankly, I think very few volunteers will be available for that. Madam Minister, I wish you every success in your negotiations with the police unions and I hope that you can achieve a workable result.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic611x.u60	Madam Minister, first of all, you say that the two elements can be conducted in parallel, on the one hand, the discussions on NAPAP and, on the other, the discussions on the general regime. Technically, that's not possible. That's what we're trying to let you and the trade unionists know. When I talk to them, it's pretty clear, but you, when you talk to them, you don't hear the same thing. If we reform NAPAP today and then come with a general framework that contains other conditions, we have to start from scratch and do the job again. You have to make sense. The first step is to determine where we are going to work and then to determine what is specific to police officers. That is how things must be done. That makes quite sense to me. I come to another aspect which is linked to the former and which represents a danger on the ground. If you are discussing NAPAP today, what will this cause in the police force? This will ensure that all those who are eligible to benefit from NAPAP but who would have chosen to pursue their career one more, two or three years will rush to take their NAPAP before 2023. You're going to push them to make this decision, which will create a hole that is impossible to compensate for at the staff level. We're already at 4,400 less agents compared to the normal setting and you're going to push all those who can benefit from NAPAP but don't do it because they don't know what sauce they're going to eat after 2023. Should they work until age 67 instead of leaving at age 58? Believe me, they won't take the risk. This is about thousands of police officers who will prefer to leave with the NAPAP regime before 2023. You will end up with a huge hole in the staff that will not be compensated. It is not just an ideological question or political choice. On the ground, in practice, this is going to be a big problem. Minister, listen to the unions! Listen to the workers! Listen to the police! Act with good reason! Let us first try to have a more general framework to discuss the police force in a more specific way. This is the most logical and least risky way for our law enforcement.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic611x.u61	Madam Minister, on 12 September it became known that the fire zones in Flanders are suffering from staff shortages. Today about 1,000 vacancies are open for volunteers who are not filled. There are several reasons for this: the unattractive nature of the voluntary status, the remuneration and the complex training, which takes on average three years. Of course, this problem is not new and is a general phenomenon within our security services. We will have to work urgently on efficient recruitment systems and promote the attractiveness of the profession. You announced that you are willing to review the compensation of volunteers. Who will you discuss this with and when will a decision be taken? Have you already examined whether dividing the training into modules can bring added value? What measures have you already planned to increase the attractiveness of the profession?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic611x.u62	Madam Secretary, volunteers are indispensable for the fire department. Changes in society, the heavy training and the lack of flexibility in the use of volunteers put pressure on the recruitment of new candidates. As Mr Vandenput said, our fire zones in Flanders suffer from staff shortages. Safety is important and those who must guarantee our safety must be properly trained. However, the complex training is one of the major stumbling blocks to find enough volunteers for the fire department. We also note that once the volunteer of the fire department has reached the age of 50, he or she tastes the additional training less and therefore loses it, while these volunteers can still perform a lot of useful tasks. Network Fire Weather has prepared a vision paper on the future of the fire volunteer and says that the ball is now in the Home Affairs camp. Have you already looked at the vision paper of Network Fire Weather? Do you see any quick wins in that to recruit more volunteers to the fire department? How will you try to keep the older volunteer active within the fire zones?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic611x.u63	Madam Minister, in Flanders, there is currently a shortage of 1,000 volunteer firefighters in the various relief areas. This state of affairs is of particular concern. More than ever, the tragic events of this summer confirm that firefighters are essential workers for the safety of all. In response, you announced that you are considering an increase in the remuneration of these volunteer firefighters. I would like to know how much this increase would amount to. When is it considered? Have you contacted the trade union organizations to initiate a consultation in this direction? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic611x.u64	Mr President, members of the committee, volunteers do indeed play an important role in our areas of assistance and also in civil protection. That is precisely why we have already paid attention to this. We have asked our administration to develop a strategic vision to safeguard and even strengthen the attractiveness of volunteering. She plays on different axes, of course. A number of aspects need to be addressed, such as the assignments, roles and functions for tomorrow's volunteer, the work-life balance, the remuneration, recruitment and selection, especially the training and development of the career, which is currently very significant for fire volunteers, but also mobility, framework in the relief zones, the integration and coexistence of volunteers within the permanent firefighter community and cooperation with professionals. The General Executive Board will issue a public contract to accompany the development of the strategic project. The networks ReZonWal and Brandweer Vlaanderen have already made a journey in this respect with a reflection group. The aim is to continue working on the findings of the reflection group. Of course, we will not fail to achieve a number of quick wins in anticipation of possible reforms. These may include training in modules or e-learning for volunteers so that they do not have to move to safety schools every time. It goes without saying that these reflection exercises and the elaboration of the strategic vision are carried out in close consultation with all the parties involved, such as trade unions, firefighters' networks themselves, but certainly also the cities and municipalities and the networks and associations of volunteers themselves. Like the attractiveness of the profession and the compensation scheme, we will consider the question of training in modules for the volunteers, so that they can already follow a part of the training and possibly be involved in the operation of the fire department, and then move on to a training course. We will respond to this in the context of a global project because it is all related, especially with regard to the availability and capacity of the fire department. Mr. Boukili, the Strategic Vision will take into account a set of parameters, including the compensation component. However, I did not announce that I would consider an increase in firefighter compensation. I think we should be careful before throwing the Federal Certificate of Fitness (FCA) overboard. This cannot under any circumstances be the objective. On the other hand, I agree with the fact that we must dare to evaluate the CAF. In addition, more flexibility is needed for volunteers to follow it when they wish, and preferably the three CAF modules at the same time. I asked the know-how center to look into this issue and look for optimizations as far as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic611x.u65	Madam Minister, you yourself say that a number of areas of assistance and barracks rely on volunteers, and sometimes mainly on volunteers. I often hear on the field that people are happy that they are there because otherwise basic aid could not be organized. I am pleased that a strategic vision is being drawn up by an external company. I am counting on a year before the first results will come. I also welcome the fact that you involve the cities and municipalities, because historically many volunteers are not all staff members of the technical services of the cities and municipalities, so there is also a balance to be found, but I am looking forward to that strategic vision.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic611x.u66	Madam Minister, it is indeed a good thing that there is a strategic vision to improve the status of volunteers. It is also good that you already mentioned some quick wins in your answer. However, according to the current statute, it is still all or nothing today: all volunteers must continue to participate in all training courses and exercises, and this is not always evident especially for the slightly older volunteer. This often means letting people go with a lot of experience, despite the fact that they are still able to take on certain fire-fighting tasks or at least pass on their knowledge to young people. We must therefore dare to use a form of diversity of competences among volunteers in order to pursue a single goal together. If you and your cabinet would also support the vision paper of Network Fire Weather, I believe that this could give a whole new impetus to the fire department's voluntary work.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic611x.u67	Minister, I am a little surprised because I heard at the VRT that "the Minister of the Interior, Annelies Verlinden, confirms that the remuneration of volunteer firefighters is meagre. It therefore considers whether this compensation cannot be increased." That is why I asked the question in this direction. But you confirmed to me that there would be no increase. Is this due to a misinterpretation of the journalist? There is, in any case, a contradiction and it would be good to have clarifications. In what context has this been said? Why do you say the opposite today? For the rest, I look forward to this Strategic Vision. I hope that it will arrive as soon as possible so that we can act on this shortage problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic611x.u68	Madam Minister, I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic611x.u69	On 25 May we gave the launch of the States General. Due to the current corona measures at that time, the number of attendees was limited, but many stakeholders followed the event online. Live were representatives of the Centre for Police Studies, the Circle of Police Leadership, the Centre d'Études sur la Police, the Federal Police, the Local Police and the Home Office, the key partners of the States General. In addition, more than 360 stakeholders, including 103 chiefs, 58 mayors and 24 professors, participated in the start-up event online. That was a clear sign for us that many are ready to think and cooperate with the police of the future. In the second part, interested parties who participated online were able to ask a question or make an argument. Of course, the unions were also involved as indispensable partners in the start-up event. The president of the NSPV was given the opportunity to keep an online statement, no matter what he did. It is clear that police unions will continue to play an important role in the further development of the State-General. During the start-up event, several speakers argued that themes such as building trust, technology and innovation, internationalisation, information sharing, diversity and HR, funding and scale of police areas should be addressed. Although the States-General is coordinated by the administration, all key partners and stakeholders are free to take initiative within the framework of the States-General. This ensures a wide variety of activities and activities, spread across the country, allowing key partners and stakeholders to implement both the content and the practical organisation of the activities and activities themselves. The results of this can certainly help shape the policy and debate in Parliament. In the States-General, we have taken the initiative to set up a multidisciplinary committee for funding and the optimal scale, with which we have the ambition to develop a funding mechanism for the police of the future. In addition, there is an initiative to develop the vision for future police education in the States General. During the start-up event, it certainly did not remain only with declarations of intent by key partners and other stakeholders. Participants have also started work, including by taking a number of initiatives in addition to setting up the multidisciplinary committee, such as launching a quantitative and qualitative evaluation of ten already merged police zones. The multidisciplinary working group KIM test also fits in, as well as the online conference on urban violence in collaboration with the FPS Justice Department. Another initiative is to investigate what are the best international practices in the new way of protesting. All these events and initiatives were listed on the website www.besafe.be and anyone who wants to participate will contact the organizer. Due to the increased complexity, both in the virtual and physical world, the police must carry out more tasks and sometimes also cooperate with other parties. We must also take this into account by the States-General. Therefore, it remains our explicit desire to involve all actors in the security ecosystem with the States-General in order to create a modern and dynamic police force, which is ready for the challenges of the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic611x.u70	Thank you for the explanation, because I was not aware of everything. I will certainly visit the website and inform me further. Following the legislative proposal on the financing of police zones, we held a number of interesting hearings in our committee, including Professor Janssens. We must indeed develop a global vision of our police landscape. I am pleased that you share the view that a modern police force has different partners than it used to be. We need to learn how to work with aid workers and other actors. In some cases, they fall within the province of the Länder. Not all initiatives are federally organised, and they don't have to be. I hope that the States-General will produce concrete results that will benefit everyone. That's everyone's goal, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic611x.u71	Mr Pivin, this subject of the new way of protesting will be explained in detail in my policy brief. We will therefore have the opportunity to discuss it in November, if I am not mistaken. The working group on new forms of protest began its work in 2021 within the integrated police force. Nine themes have already been identified. These include, for example, information gathering, increasing the mobilizable capacity within 24 hours, valuing risk analysis, assessing and adopting new technologies and good practices, adopting the communication strategy, means, tactics and changing command structure. In this regard, the recommendations made by the General Inspection in its report on the "Black live matter" events have been taken into account. The working group will continue its activities in 2022 to identify a new vision and approach. It will also explore the possibility of establishing a centre of expertise.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic611x.u72	Madam Minister, thank you. Since you are announcing that we will be able to discuss this during the presentation of your policy note, at that time I will rely on the specific questions on the composition, mission and agenda of the working group. I'm warning you already. I had another broader aspect that related to the evaluation that can be done by your services at the College of Attorneys General's COL. In the meantime, you may be able to check whether an evaluation is under way or whether changes in behaviour have occurred at the level of police services since this amendment to the circular. This will save time when we discuss the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic611x.u73	Mr President, Minister, I am sure you have heard that Mr Carles Puigdemont, the President of Catalonia, was arrested in Sardinia. However, the story is not entirely clear to me, so I would like to ask above all for factual clarification. At first everyone was looking towards Spain, thinking that the Spaniards had short-circuited with the Italians and that Mr Puigdemont was arrested. It doesn't seem to be. The Spanish Minister for the Interior says that he was not informed and that he was not informed until after the arrest. So it's not Spain that arrested Carles. He does refer to your services. In the Schengen Information System and the Passenger Name Record a number of things are given by our security services, including the status of Mr Puigdemont. Via that channel the Italians were then enlisted that Mr. Puigdemont was heading in their direction, after which he was stopped. If that were the case, hence this question, it is special, because there is an arrest mandate which the Spaniards themselves say they are not going to carry out and that it has been suspended. The Spanish have even made explicit use of this argument at the Court of Justice in connection with the immunity proceedings of those Members of the European Parliament. So Spain says it is not going to do so, but in the databases, inspired by your services, the arrest mandate is still completely active. What's going on? What exactly happened? Have there been any contacts between the police? Have you had any contact with you? After all, that deserves some clarity. Mr Puigdemont is here under our good legal concerns. We must also do everything we can to ensure that his statute is fully respected.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic611x.u74	Mr President, Mr Loones, the international SIS alert concerns a Spanish international alert on the basis of a European arrest warrant issued by the Spanish authorities. Only Spain can modify that international alert. On 17 October 2019, Mr Puigdemont volunteered to join the federal judicial police in Belgium. He was then arrested on the basis of the Spanish SIS alert. The Belgian justice system decided not to surrender and at its request it was asked to apply a flag for Belgium. This means that the measure to be taken on Belgian territory when the person is found following a check is no longer an arrest, but a localisation. In reply to your question regarding the current situation, we can confirm that the passenger information unit or PIE has not exchanged information with the Italian PIE or the police services regarding Mr Puigdemont's travel movements. Nor have I had any contact with my Spanish colleague on this dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic611x.u75	Madam Secretary, thank you for this information. It is very clear that it is a tense answer. The Spanish Minister for the Interior says that it is the fault of the Belgian police forces and you say that it was motivated by the Spanish security services. I'm sure I'm prepared to believe your lecture. It doesn't seem illogical to me. But I think it would be appropriate for you to address your Spanish colleague. It is remarkable, however, that he puts our police forces in a bad light, while it is very clearly his own responsibility. I assume you wish to see our police forces defended? The Prime Minister was in Spain a few days ago. We now have that new memorandum of understanding. Your government is planning a better cooperation with Spain. I hope that this also means that Spain respects our police forces and that no false statements are made about them. I believe that you are sitting next to the Spanish Minister in the European Council? This can be a nice subject to talk about with the coffee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic611x.u76	Madam Minister, this summer you provided information about your preliminary proposal to ban pyrotechnic equipment for football fans. If prohibitions are already effective, it appears that this preliminary draft expands the mechanism and the penalties involved. This subject has been delicate and under discussion for several years. In addition, it appears that the findings of use have clearly increased until 2019. It is important to act in this area but certainly taking into account the impact of legislation that has been in force for several years and adapting it to the realities on the ground. This requires hearing from stakeholders and professionals and perhaps also drawing on developments in this legislation in other European countries. I was able to see that France had very recently launched an experiment on this subject following a parliamentary report of 2020. In France, prohibitions are in force, but the authorities in this country are working on a project to reintroduce these fireworks. We must ensure the safety of all in the football stadiums, but I also think that we must not stigmatise all the supporters. It is therefore probably useful to remain as open as possible to these tens of thousands of enthusiastic but peaceful supporters. This may require a review of our regulations. In this case, this must be done in consultation and on the basis of an evaluation. Minister, what recent data have been provided to you on the status of the use of pyrotechnic equipment by football fans (apart from the 2015-2019 figures already reported this summer)? What consultations have been held with the Pro League and the Belgian Football Union which appear to be in favour of strengthening these prohibitions? What consultations have been held between the Pro League and the clubs' managements and how have the clubs' managements sought advice from the supporters' associations? Do you have any contacts with authorities in other European countries in this area? Specifically, have you had any contact with the French government in the context of its experiment? What analysis has been made of the French report by your services as part of your preliminary project?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic611x.u77	Colleagues, I can send you figures in writing, but the incidents speak for themselves. The recent example of the goalkeeper of Oud-Heverlee Leuven quoted by Mr Vandenput is, of course, striking. A football stadium should be a place where people come together, where families can enjoy the competition and each other's company and where children can discover the fun of a sporting competition. Football is a party that should be able to continue for both supporters and players in safe conditions. We must break the illusion that dangerous objects symbolize the atmosphere in football stadiums. A change of mentality in this regard is necessary because the use of pyrotechnics can cause serious injuries, as we have seen in recent incidents. The Pro League and the Belgian Football Union have put the issue of pyrotechnics in football on the agenda. After consulting them, I have prepared a draft law which includes increased minimum sanctions for infringements of pyrotechnic articles in the framework of football-related activities. The draft is currently being adapted to the opinion of the Council of State which we received. It will, of course, be submitted to Parliament for consideration afterwards. On 2 August, the Pro League and the Belgian Football Union joined in my approach against the use of pyrotechnics, during a press conference at which we welcomed bus drivers from the Jupiler Pro League teams. They shared their experiences and concerns about the growing use of pyrotechnic equipment by supporters. The Pro League, in collaboration with the Belgian Football Union, continues its commitment in terms of prevention, deterrence and, where appropriate, sanction. A consultation will soon take place with the representatives of the various clubs of the Pro League and the Belgian Football Union, in preparation for a consultation with the Belgian Federation of Fans Coordination. I will still have meetings with the Pro League this week on this subject. During this consultation, the approach against pyrotechnic devices and, in particular, the bill that I have tabled will be considered. Finally, the federal police are in contact with the French police. Further analysis will be carried out in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic611x.u78	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I remind you that as mayor, I am very attached to the safety of children, families, supporters at parties, football matches, etc. Ensuring the safety of their fellow citizens is part of the daily life of the mayors. You are announcing a concertation, which is a very good thing. It is indeed very important that the associations of supporters can be heard, especially since the preliminary draft was announced without any consultation and consultation; however, these are indispensable. Madam Minister, I would like to know if you intend to amend your proposal, following the consultation you have announced. Do Belgian services follow the current experience in France? Is this the objective of contacts between the Belgian police and the French police? It seems to me, in any case, useful for your future project. Can experiments be carried out in Belgium, as is the case in France? Have you made specific proposals to the supporters' associations or do you intend to do so during the consultation? In concrete terms, have you proposed to supporters' associations that they take responsibility for supervised test experiments such as those carried out in France for the time being?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic611x.u79	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. The safety of the players is at stake, but in the past it has been shown that the safety of the spectators can also be seriously compromised, for example in the case of a badly shot arrow. So it's not just about the players. You say that we are working on a new framework with stricter sanctions. I really hope that people who bring and shoot such dangerous objects into the stadium will get a stadium ban, not for one year but for several years. Such people do not belong in a football stadium.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic611x.u80	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Metsu's 55021346C has been converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic611x.u81	Mr President, Mrs Ingels, in consultation with the administration, it was indeed decided to appoint a law firm to assist in drafting the legislative initiative. It is an office specialising in, among others, administrative law, criminal law and privacy. Those disciplines are necessary in view of the specialised and thorough knowledge needed in those legal areas and the way in which they interact under the draft law. As regards, among other things, its cost, I refer to the answer to the written parliamentary question No. Mr Loones. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Loones on his excellent report. The drafting of the draft law will follow the ordinary procedure, with the texts of course being submitted to the various stakeholders and to the IKWs, for the purposes of government validation. We aim to present the texts to the IKWs this year. After approval by the government, the draft law will be submitted to the competent advisory bodies and will eventually be submitted to the Chamber. The impact analysis of the ARIECs is still ongoing, and I cannot anticipate the results of that analysis today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic611x.u82	Madam Secretary, you know that this project is very close to my heart. I even got some gray hair through it in IKW's a few years ago. It's a difficult but very important project. I look forward to the outcome of the additional steps you have taken. I would like to emphasise that I think that these ARIECs are absolutely an added value. It was not entirely clear to me why you needed the expertise of an external firm, as there is a lot of expertise present internally. But you have already partially replied to that. I look forward to the continuation of the work and I think, Mr President, that our hearings at the beginning of next year are perfectly timely.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic611x.u83	Minister, under the previous legislature, information had been leaked, announcing the end of the federal police on horseback. Fortunately, this has not been the case, although it seems that the resources of these services have been gradually reduced for years. I had been able to question your predecessor about this, on several occasions. This service exists in many other countries and for a very long time, as is the case in Belgium. It is valuable because it allows for a negotiated management of the public space that has proven its worth in various circumstances and places. The question has again been asked in some media for no real objective reason, but as a result of crowd movements irregularly present in the Brussels Region. It was last summer. Horse intervention techniques have been carried out. Equipment was also developed and made available to cavalry police officers. The techniques of esquive, release, arrest evolve and modernise well logically and the training remains necessary. However, it would appear that equipment validated by the relevant departments was not operational and still not operational. Very concretely, some police officers report that "the non-use of special Bajutsu straps" - I quote the information given to me - "while this equipment could increase the safety of riders while limiting attacks on people arrested by a police horse". The importance of horse policing in specific locations is evident when we read the federal police crime report 2020, as requests for support from the horse police increased by 174% in 2020, for support in specific locations such as woods, dunes, parks, urban squares and city centres. Could you then tell me how many police officers are present in the Mounted Police? What has been the trend in recent years? What developments in terms of equipment have been decided in recent years to better secure riders in intervention? I remind you of those famous straps. What budgets are planned for this unit and what measures are you planning to take in the coming years or this year to strengthen the Mounted Police, specialized trainings, in particular in the context of the modernization of the Negotiated Public Space Management (GNEP)? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic611x.u84	Mr President, the infrastructure in which the police horses are currently housed, the Baron de Witte de Haelen complex in Etterbeek, managed by the Government of the Buildings, is very old. I don't have to tell you that. The installations for the horses have reached the end of their lifespan and there is no possibility, for example, of using grazing pastures for the stalled animals. For the past 25 years, no structural investments have been made in the stables or the horse boxes at the current location. The information distributed in the media that a budget of EUR 22 million would have actually been allocated is wrong. That is the cost of any renovation of the old infrastructure, for which budgetary resources still have to be allocated. The possible purchase of suitable external infrastructure is only a possible alternative option, for which neither budgetary resources are currently available. In its globality, the dossier needs to be further discussed with the Government of the Buildings. No such option has been definitively adopted at present. Mr. Pivin, at present, the horse police need 120 riders, enabling 85 full-time equivalents to be provided each year. This capacity of 120 patented horse officers was subdivided into 107 people in the operational pool on the one hand, and 13 people in the so-called overhead of this service on the other. In reality, however, the Public Safety Directorate currently has only 81 licensed horse-backed police officers in the operational pool, i.e. a real available capacity of only 67.4 full-time equivalents. Horses, as well as horse riders, use a whole range of equipment and accessories to carry out their tasks while respecting their well-being and the safety of citizens. Mounts are now protected in several locations and, in the case of law enforcement operations, specific protective equipment is available. With regard to the Bajutsu straps you refer to, extensive tests have been carried out; but after analysis of some practical situations, different factors have led to the decision not to retain this piece of equipment. The horse police no longer exist as a separate unit since 2014, it is difficult to accurately isolate the budgets allocated to them within the Directorate of Public Security. In addition to the purchase and maintenance of animals, there are public contracts for their equipment, which represent an annual budget of EUR 120 000. More details can be found in my answer to your written question No. 829. In conclusion, I would like to inform you that it was during the debate on the key tasks of the federal police, carried out a few years ago, that it was decided to reduce the existing equestrian resources, keeping the tasks assigned to them. No questioning of this decision is on the agenda. The police on horseback will therefore continue to provide specialist support from the federal police for the benefit of the police partners, who can always ask for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic611x.u85	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. First of all, I am pleased that the debate on the police on horseback does not deviate from the decision taken years ago. Unfortunately, they have not been fully implemented, some of them have not been carried out. I am somewhat surprised that Mr Pivin refers to the statistics on the extra effort. That is true, but when one looks at the priority mission of those horses, it is not. They can be useful in gardens, although policemen tell me that the use of quads is actually much more efficient. They can also be useful in terms of public order, but we have already seen the disadvantages of that. Twenty years ago, for example, an accident occurred in Liège, after which the deployment of police on horseback was always questioned. There's always a risk of an accident. We saw that at La Boum's parties in the park. So we need to look carefully at the added value police can offer on horseback. There are indeed a lot of requests, but these are secondary issues, such as parades. Let us not forget the protocol issues either. Those horses have to come out of the stable every time a head of state comes to our country. I wonder if that's a job for the police. For me, that would be allowed to move to the King's Protocolary Service, I do not think it is a police matter. That's my point of view. Madam Minister, I welcome your clarification of the money and the fact that the 22 million has not yet been decided. However, I would also like to draw attention to the other services of the DAS. Next to the cavalry there is the infantry. To put it mildly, he doesn't have the resources to do her job right. I hear this service has to use Civilian Protection end-of-life vehicles. So there are some things to be said about this. Perhaps we can come back to the discussion of your policy paper when it comes to the money and the choices that are being made regarding the accommodation of the remaining horses.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic611x.u86	Madam Minister, thank you. I finally don't know what was most interesting. Was that your answer or everything I just heard from Mrs. Ingels' mouth? Frankly, Mrs. Ingels, we are not at all on the same wavelength. You'll know that. Madam Minister, there is something very alarming in your answer because you are making an observation which is itself alarming both in terms of infrastructure, of which you yourself stress the oldness, and in terms of human resources. You indicate that full-time equivalents are barely half what they should normally be. It is necessary to be logical: this service, which has proved its worth and continues to be valuable, cannot be kept and sent to public space with such working conditions. We need to be consistent. Either we stop and replace horses with robots or quads, as Mrs Ingels has argued, or we give this service - that is my feeling - the means to fulfil the missions that we still expect of him. I didn't make up statistics. I read them. And when I see 2020, I see that these services are still used very often. I therefore believe that we should have this substantive discussion of whether it is an "extinct" framework or whether, on the contrary, we are willing to keep it in strict police missions. At that time, it must of course be given worthy means only to be able to function.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic611x.u87	Mr President, Madam Minister, as part of your general policy note of 2021 you announced that your administration has been responsible for initiating and piloting a multidisciplinary commission of experts to define, before 2024, a new model of funding for the local police to enable it to carry out its community policing mission and its role devolved by the state. Madam Minister, could you please provide me with the state of play of this reflection and if there is a specific agenda in this area? Could you also clarify to me the composition of these expert groups?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic611x.u88	Madam Minister, the last hearings took place a while ago on a proposal for a new funding system for the police zones. Everyone agreed that something urgently needed to be changed about this and that it should not remain. The system is outdated and does not work anymore, but we all know by now that the solution is not simple and is related to various issues, such as scaling up scale, the core task debate and the solidarity mechanisms. You indicated that yesterday in the debate itself. In the coalition agreement and your policy statement, we could read that you want to create an objective financing model that stimulates the optimal size of police zones. Your policy paper clarified this with the message that an expert committee would be appointed to make a proposal for 2024. I would have liked to have had an update on the work. What steps were agreed? Has cooperation with Parliament been established and how it will be done when defining the working methods of the working group? Does the working party also consider a possible scaling-up of the Brussels police zones, which is always a difficult issue? On 17 March 2021, you replied that an independent external partner would subsequently be designated to support the working group in the concrete design of the financing model. Do you already know who this independent external partner will be and what budget will be allocated to it?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic611x.u89	Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that within the framework of the policy note of 5 November and my policy statement of 6 November 2020, steps are being taken to set up a multidisciplinary commission. The first meeting of the Commission was held on 12 July. Various police and non-police organizations were invited, including the Federal Police Council, the Council of Mayors, the Standing Commission of the Local Police, the Vereniging van Vlaamse Steden en Gemeenten, the Union of Cities and Municipalities of Wallonia and Brulocalis, and the Commissioner General of the Federal Police. We are planning meetings on 25 October and in November and December to explain and discuss the current funding and its issues. We will not avoid taboos. Of course, the outcome of the hearings in Parliament is the starting point. The next step is to arrive at a study by an external partner in the first quarter of 2022. It is envisaged that this procurement will be overseen by a small group, as mentioned above, to be established by the plenary members of the Multidisciplinary Commission. The entire budget for the scientific studies of the Inland FPS for 2022 is reserved for this research. The independent external partner to be designated for this study is not yet known, as the exact issues and problems must first be identified. It is only after the small group receives the applications that a decision can be made as to the external partner to which the study will be assigned.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic611x.u90	Madam Minister, thank you for that clarification. I am still concerned about the establishment of the working group and also about the call for external consultants. What bothers me a little is the calendar. At the same time, there is also a reflection in our committee. I think there must be a better synergy between the work we do and the work of the group of experts that you have set up. On the other hand, I note that since you took up your duties, you have often sent a lot of things. It is, of course, a method that stands and that I do not dispute. But behind this committeeing, I absolutely want every time there is a timetable and a programme so that the work of all the committees that you have set up can be completed fairly quickly. You did it for the problem of the KUL standard. A working group has also been set up for the twenty-four-hour shift problem in our firefighters. There is also the problem of the future of Civil Protection. These are all important projects. A series of working groups are being set up, but I would not like this in-committee meeting to make all the work that needs to be done get bogged down.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic611x.u91	Madam Minister, I am somewhat in agreement with Mr Thiébaut because I share his concern. There must be good cooperation, that is important. It is a pity, however, that you did not confirm whether a scale increase might also be possible in the Brussels police zones. That should also be put on the table, it would not be a bad thing. We look forward to the follow-up and will certainly ask questions about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic611x.u92	Violence against aid workers, police and firefighters is not new, and while it is sometimes reported in the press, it is a daily reality for police and firefighters. You stressed in the past that you would always consider yourself a bourgeois party. In the meantime, you have added that you do this mainly when there is a question from the person in question. That is a good approach; indeed, you should not do it everywhere. It is wonderful that you look at this case on a case-by-case basis. Of course, you're only responsible for the federal police. Local police are also regularly confronted with violence. You are giving the mayors of the areas concerned an incentive to become a bourgeois party as well. In what way do you do that? Is there an effective response to that? You have probably evaluated all your policies in this area to see what works well or less well. I have the impression that mayors are far less likely to be bourgeois. Is there any reason for that? Is it useful that they do that more often? Perhaps you would urge them to do so by letter or telephone, but perhaps you could do so in another way? That would certainly be a heartbeat for our aid workers. Your services would consider what costs could be covered by the Solidarity Fund. Are there any results of that? Have you already worked on a draft amendment to the Civil Security Act to allow free legal assistance when a staff member becomes a victim of aggression?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic611x.u93	Madam Minister, in the debate on the subject in plenary, you called for opportunities when you were bourgeois. I agree with Mrs Goethals. In doing so, you are right to send a political signal not only about the serious social problems of violence against the police. Of course, it must not stop there. The mayors should also be prepared to stand as a bourgeois party if any of their corps falls victim to violent crimes. Beyond that, a whole series of measures is still possible, which not only belong to your department, but perhaps also to the department of the Minister of Justice. Something must also be done about the red tape that police officers experience when they have to file a complaint, when they have to file their own bourgeois parties. I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic611x.u94	Mrs Goethals, violence against policemen and other security services is unacceptable, as I have said on several occasions, and must be tackled with rigour. Several initiatives have already been taken, including an adjustment of prosecution policy by the Justice Department, the investigation of technological tools to increase police protection and the purchase of bodycams. The bourgeois-party appointment by the employer of the staff concerned is also a specific instrument for the maximum prosecution, punishment and accountability of the offender and for assisting the staff member in the processing of the terrible facts. In any incident of violence against police officers of the federal police, a bourgeois settlement shall be considered on the basis of the nature of the file and the conduct of the criminal investigation and, where appropriate, the concerns or considerations of the persons concerned. In any event, the Belgian State systematically establishes itself as a civil party when the case is brought before the criminal court. Mrs Goethals, I was indeed in contact with the employers of the local police to promote the same possibility. Perhaps they are making the same opportunity assessment. It is not for me to hold their pen in the actions they are taking. Figures were asked for. The federal police have so far informed me of 48 incidents involving 119 members of the federal police and 40 members of the federal police have requested and received legal assistance free of charge. For all 48 incidents, the Belgian State wrote the parquet, referring to the revised circular No. 10/2017 of the College of Attorneys General, requesting that the case be referred to the Court for action and to request admission for copy of the criminal record with the aim of being able to present itself as a bourgeois party before the court. In the case of 17 of the 48 incidents, which in certain cases involve several police officers, proceedings have been initiated before the criminal court and the Belgian State has made itself a bourgeois party. Of the remaining 31 files, 4 files were classified without consequence for technical reasons. Sometimes, for example, there is no information or information missing. For 27 cases, the judicial investigation is still ongoing, and we cannot anticipate the exact timing and opportunities for bourgeois parties, as the bourgeois-party status depends on the conduct of the criminal investigation. It goes without saying that the administration closely follows up and intervenes and acts at the appropriate time and in the appropriate manner to bourgeois parties. In the meantime, in 8 cases, a verdict has been issued condemning the accused for the facts they have been charged with. In five of these proceedings, the staff of the federal police concerned have also established themselves a civil party following the free legal assistance granted to them. Violence against aid and security services is a wider issue and therefore other aspects need to be addressed. For example, we have given priority to training the members of the emergency services through internal awareness campaigns developed by the General Executive Board of Civil Security of the FOD. The ongoing campaign works on themes such as hygiene, fitness and aggression. The aim is to encourage staff to actually report verbal and physical aggression they face. On 1 October, the second part of that internal campaign was launched, encouraging firefighters and relief zones as employers to file a complaint after each incident they faced, in order to further shape the prosecution. On 1 October, I sent a letter to all the relief zones inviting them to implement an aggression control policy. This also applies primarily to the employer, but it goes without saying that we will follow it closely in our next initiatives.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic611x.u95	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. The services are doing well. That's a good thing to say. You are heavily committed to the recruitment process and to the attractive nature of the police. We want more people working in the police force. All support you offer to the people on the premises is welcome. They feel that support in the back. So I suggest that you encourage as many mayors as possible to take bourgeois parties as well and support those on the field who, unfortunately, are too often confronted with violence.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic611x.u96	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I'm a little surprised. The number of bourgeois elections by the Belgian State is rather low in relation to the large number of cases of aggression and violence against police officers. Is this not rather politically symbolic, or does it make a real difference to the man or woman in the field? You should, above all, do something about the red tape faced by a police officer before he can put himself in a bourgeois position. I'm sure the story's still being prosecuted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic611x.u97	Debates of the European Parliament 55021559C by Mrs Rohonyi is without object.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic611x.u98	Mr President, Minister, a number of years ago a number of major reforms took place in the field of fire and civil protection, among others. We have talked about it before, and the flooding crisis has taught us that a number of things could be different and better. The army was quickly activated because the situation was very dramatic and via the Network Fire Weather Flemish teams were also sent to Wallonia. However, there was not enough guidance on the ground. Civil Protection has a lot of logistical resources, but too few men. A vote will be taken to see whether there is a need for a plan of action in order to achieve real impact on the ground as quickly and adequately as possible. Do you think it might be useful to reconsider whether there is a need for some reorganisation in certain disciplines? How do you view the future of Civil Protection? Do you agree that the current situation is far from optimal? Do you already have a plan of action in mind in order to deliver a number of improvements quickly?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic611x.u99	Mr President, Mr Moyaers, we have not waited for the terrible disaster in July and have already started a reflection on the current situation of civil protection. Initially, a number of data were collected and examined by the Civilian Security Executive Board. In this way, all interventions and the associated intervention times have been identified since the reforms. This information will enable us to draw certain conclusions, but of course this information is not sufficient to give a full picture of the current situation of civil protection and of the challenges that exist. That is why we have asked for a more in-depth study, based on the proposal for a resolution on the reform of civil protection. The Civilian Protection Review requested is broad and requires that all partners, such as relief zones, local police and local authorities, be consulted when they can or could rely on Civil Protection. In any case, this calls for an appropriate methodology. Among other things, it is intended to identify gaps in cooperation, to analyse whether the Civilian Protection equipment and personnel framework is sufficient to fulfil tasks and whether the current location of the barracks is sufficient to ensure adequate service provision. The results of that study will allow to assess to what extent and in what way it is necessary to change the operational functioning of civil protection or the mission and division of tasks within civil security. This will also be an opportunity to reconsider the tasks of Civil Protection within discipline 1 and consolidate its role in coordinating discipline 4. The public contract and procedure for that study started at the beginning of 2021. The tenders were opened on 2 September and are now being examined with a view to the rapid award of that public contract. Of course, the service provider to be selected must have the necessary time to carry out the research in a good and quality manner. About five months are allocated to this. We therefore expect the results of the study in spring 2022, so that, together with, among other things, the evaluation of the flood learning committee, we can move forward in order to review the crisis management and the structures and organisation of crisis management and to keep an eye on future crises that could arise in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic611x.u100	Madam Minister, I think it was worth discussing this last question. I found your answer at least very enriching. I myself, as mayor of a flooded small town, have had something to do with civil protection, firefighters and the military. To reach Limburg, Civic Protection has to drive quite a long way from Brasschaat, but it is also really undermanned, according to the conversations I had. I visited the Ravels Fire Weather Network Congress a few weeks ago. That was a very interesting network moment, where, of course, the flooding and civil protection were also discussed. I myself did not form a personal view of how the transdisciplinary cooperation between Defence, the police, Civil Protection and the fire department should be optimised, but in my discussions with fire brigade commanders I learned that the tasks carried out today by Civil Protection can be divided into three categories: part of the tasks carried out by fire brigades in Limburg are often so, because civil protection is quite far away from us, which has historically always been so, another part of the tasks is carried out mainly by the police, for example, cleaning up drug labs or pot plantations, and finally the logistical tasks, in which civil protection is really strong. However, as I said, there are not enough men today to carry out these tasks optimally. It is interesting to keep that approach in mind when discussing Civil Protection in the future. I understand there's a very interesting study coming up. It is also important that you consult with the Minister of Defence on how transdisciplinary cooperation can work better in the future in the field. Interesting things can be said about this in the learning board.
