ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic413x.u1	Mr Dermine, I would like to begin by congratulating you on your new haircoup. We have seen a different version on social media, especially with the birth of your daughter. Fathers and daughters, nothing gets in the way. That's the most intense band there is. I have a little girl of my own. Congratulations. I will proceed to the order of the day, because your daughter will grow up in a society that you will help shape. The drive will be all the greater. I would like to talk to you today about the resources from the European Recovery Fund, of which you are the administrator. We have already asked questions about this. You will of course reply that the plans are not yet final and that this will only be the case when the final project is delivered to the European Commission in April or later. However, in addition to the general answer, I have noticed that occasionally you give some hints of the shutter light, talk through and information, hence the question about migration. Mr Yoleen Van Camp asked Secretary of State Sammy Mahdi whether he and his services could also use the European recovery funds. His answer was affirmative for the digitisation projects part. It concerns the digitisation of the processes in the administration for Asylum and Migration and the digitisation of a kind of return system. Is that information correct? In the current state of affairs, have projects relating to digitisation been included for the Foreign Office or the Commissioner-General or the other asylum services? What would be the indicative amount eligible for this? Is there any other jars going that way? I had also asked you a question about the Brexit Fund, which France is now preoccupied with, but it has apparently been referred to Minister Wilmès. I would, however, like to say that I would also like to encourage your vigilance on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic413x.u2	The pleasant news you started had escaped me. I would also like to congratulate you, Mr Secretary of State. Mrs. Gijbels is not present.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic413x.u3	First of all, congratulations, Mr Secretary of State. Our group has a card for you, even in French! We would have liked to have given that to you personally, but that will be for the next time, when you bring the sugar beans. All madness on a stick, back to the order of the day. At the end of next month, you will have to advocate our recovery plan to the European Commission. Time is running out, and I suspect that your work in this area is approaching the final stage. During the previous topical debate, you were able to tell us some vague lines, but no concrete projects yet. Even though we were already able to get to know the federal projects, we are still hungry. For example, you said that in your plan you would focus on reducing the digital divide and improving cyber security. You would also like, in cooperation with the telecom partners, to improve our digital infrastructure in order, for example, to allow the introduction of 5G. We do not immediately find projects on this subject in the documents. So it all sounds promising, but how will you get our economy back on track, including investment in the Brussels public area and the modernisation of our rail network? We're not gonna find anything about that right away. In an interview last year, you also said that every euro that the government invests will also pay off by another way. I asked you what you would do if that beautiful thought didn't become true. You didn't answer me at the time, and that's why I'm asking the question again today. In what way will the planned investments benefit our economy? As far as some projects are concerned, you will certainly be right, but for other projects we do not immediately see the possible payback effects. How do you see that? Finally, what is more general about the resources from the recovery fund? Are the proposals really in a final phase? Has there been any further consultation with the European Commission? Can it confirm that we are on the right track with our plan? It would be a pity if we were given less money than we are entitled to, because our projects were not chosen correctly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic413x.u4	Mr Secretary of State, I have a very brief question. According to the government agreement, further digitisation of public services will be carried out. That is, of course, a good thing. The Minister for Pensions also emphasises inclusive digitisation and administrative simplification in its policy statement. Is federal relay money released for pension projects related to inclusive digitisation? What is the amount envisaged?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic413x.u5	Mr Secretary of State, I would like to ask a number of questions in connection with the European relay money. It concerns investment projects. What was the European Commission's response to the first proposed projects? What was the feedback from the states? In the previous session, you made it clear that you would submit a revised list to the Consultation Committee in mid-March 2021 to return to the European Commission with a final knock-off list by the end of April. Is that where you're on schedule? Mid-March 2021 has now passed, so I suspect that this list can be submitted to the Consultation Committee. Can you share the draft list with our committee? When will you set that up with the Consultative Committee? If the list has already been discussed, what was the feedback? Where else will you send me? As we know, mandatory reforms are linked to the relay. Could you also explain the proposed reforms further? I'm gonna miss some input from you there. What feedback did you receive from the Commission? Do the proposals take into account the specific recommendations of the European Commission in recent years? In what way exactly does that happen? Are you open to an actua debate or an exchange of views in this committee, explaining the projects and reforms?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic413x.u6	Mr President, Secretary of State, by 30 April 2021 at the latest, Belgium will have to submit its national plan for recovery and resilience to the European Commission. The consequences of the covid-19 are important, and we know the amounts that could be used, to the tune of 5.9 billion, for this recovery plan in order to inject them back into the Belgian economy. On 12 January, you asked for the opinions of the Central Economic Council (CCE) and the Federal Council for Sustainable Development (CFDD) on the strategic operations of your draft plan for recovery and resilience. In the CFDD's response, particular intention should be given to small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) in investment projects. However, on the basis of the information available to us in Parliament, we consider that this objective, aimed at supporting this local economy which generates jobs for the self-employed and SMEs, is not fully fulfilled. In La Libre Belgique, Dorian de Meeûs, an editorialist, even claimed that this recovery plan was not one. Mr Secretary of State, I would therefore like to hear you explain this recovery plan and what will accompany it, i.e. recovery policies that are probably more directed towards key economic players, those who have really been more affected than others by the covid-19, the self-employed, small SMEs and the Horeca and event sectors, the contact trades, the trades. What are you doing in your discussions with the European Commission on this subject? Can you tell us more about the recovery policies that will accompany this recovery plan, since, from my point of view, it cannot be presented as taking over all the recovery policies? There are also no tax measures, whereas France, Germany and other European countries have planned tax cuts in their policies and in their recovery plans. What other measures are in the pipeline in terms of recovery, Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic413x.u7	Mr Secretary of State, I come to my second question. In the newspaper L'Echo, you said you think cybersecurity is a priority. That's good news, because The Newspaper announced a tsunami of cyber attacks in our country. What can your portfolios Relance and Science Policy add to the innovations within the competence of your colleague Michel, namely Digitalization and more specific cybersecurity? Which projects are part of this? You also noted that administrative simplification is essential for you. This is also the responsibility of your colleague Michel. What can your portfolio add to administrative simplification within the federal government? What can Science Policy add to this? What is possible on relays for digital solutions within administrative simplification? Which projects are part of this? How is cooperation going with your colleague Michel? After all, the quartet of competences Relance, Science Policy, Digitalisation and Administrative Simplification can clearly bring a lot of synergies.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic413x.u8	Mr President, Secretary of State, in order for investment projects to be eligible for EU subsidies, they must be coupled with structural reforms aligned with the country-specific recommendations issued in the framework of the European Semester. I would therefore like to ask you about these structural reforms that Europe is imposing on us to give us money. In particular, the Council recommends strengthening active labour market policies and limiting opportunities for early exit from the labour market. We know the concrete liberal measures behind this technocratic vocabulary. There is therefore a need to be a little concerned about this. With regard to this issue of reforms, we learn that Belgium has sent the European Commission a 200-page document detailing these structural reforms. It is, of course, deplorable that Parliament has not received these documents. This is not the first time, Mr Secretary of State, that I complain about a certain opacity of the documents issued under this recovery plan. So far, we haven't received anything. Depending on the press, this document would include commitments to pension and career reform, an increase in the employment rate of older persons, a reduction in the burden on labour through extensive tax reform, among other things. However, according to the same press, the Commission's initial reactions show a certain scepticism with regard to this 200-page plan from Belgium. Mr Secretary of State, when will you finally make public, both for the population and for Parliament, the documents relating to the recovery plan, including those addressed to the European Commission and those eventually received from the European Commission? Secondly, what is the Commission's sceptical reaction to the 200-page document submitted by Belgium? Thirdly, in view of the pension reform mentioned in the press and which would be contained in this 200-page document, what are the Belgian commitments in this area? What are the European Commission's responses to these commitments? Fourthly, how does the government intend to respond to the European Commission's remarks?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic413x.u9	Mr President, I apologize to the interpreters for my lack of knowledge of the rules on helmets. I hope everyone can hear me now. The summons I had received indicated that the meeting would be held exclusively by videoconference. Otherwise, I would have been happy to go to Parliament, since my offices are right next door. It is, in fact, always more pleasant to see each other in the face, especially since I received a card of congratulations on the occasion of the birth of my little girl a few weeks ago. Thank you. These are always moments of great family happiness! Mr President, I shall begin by addressing the general question about our methodology and the state of play following the discussions we had with the Commission last week. In the second part of my answer I will address the specific questions, including the many questions about different aspects of the digital projects in our planning. First of all, I would like to inform you of the process, because the last time we had the opportunity to exchange was on February 3rd in committee. A lot has happened since February 3rd, including the birth of my daughter, but this is not the main point of the discussion. What have we done since then? If you remember correctly, a first agreement was reached in the consultation committee on 12 January on the strategic directions of the plan and the distribution of resources between federated entities. How were we going to break down the $5.9 billion? Then, at the beginning of February, we reached agreement within the federal government on the projects identified in the stimulus plan and projects to the tune of 130% of the total amount, or 130% of the $1,250 billion allocated at the federal level. On February 5, we received a list of 130% of these projects from the federal government, but also from all the governments of the federated entities. They have submitted this list to us, which we have included and handed over to the Commission. On 5 February, all the sheets relating to the 89 investment projects of each of the entities were delivered to the European Commission, and this is also important to the advisory bodies with which we cooperate. As I understand it, Mr. Van Hees blames us for listening both too much and not enough to the European Commission. Reforms must indeed be submitted within the framework of the Commission's famous Recovery and Resilience process. On 15 February, in other words, two weeks after our last interaction, we submitted a document of about 200 pages which contains some elements of reform that we have submitted to the European Commission. At this stage, these elements of reform are not surprising, first of all, because they are elements of reform that are included in the list of Country Specific Recommendations that the Commission made to Belgium in 2019 and 2020; secondly, because these Country Specific Recommendations were known at the time of the drafting of the government agreements. Indeed, it is essentially those of 2019 that are significant as those of 2020 were written in the context of a health crisis. They are therefore very light. They consist of saying that the crisis should be resolved as soon as possible, which is not a substantial element of reform. We have therefore submitted to the Commission the relevant elements of various government declarations, whether at regional or federal level, to engage in a discussion with the Commission on the areas of reform on which it wishes to see us working in particular, beyond what was contained in the government agreements of the various governments; knowing that the Commission is obviously aware that we are going to embark on road maps for the implementation of these reforms, but not on the actual implementation of the latter within the deadlines set for the drafting of the recovery plan. The document containing the list of 89 projects for 130% of the six billions and the reform document are the basis for discussions which are now under way with the European Commission, but not just with the Commission. Since mid-February, we have started a relatively broad consultation process both to enrich this plan, to finalise the selection (from 130% to 100% of the amounts) and to exchange with the Commission to be sure that it is in line with the Commission's expectations. Who are we working together in this process and it is important to mention it because this is very important in the work we do? Most of us share this interest in broad consultation so that a plan can attract broad support and a strong revival. We have an advisory committee with the Central Economic Council and the employers' and union representatives, with the Federal Council on Sustainable Development, who provide us with opinions on the documents. We are also working with the Institute for Gender Equality in analysing the impact of gender inequalities on different projects and measures. We are working with the Social Integration PPS for impacts on the most vulnerable audiences, with the Plan Office for a serious and rigorous approach to assessing the macro-economic impact of the various projects and the impact of the CO2 trajectory of the various projects, as well as a series of interactions with the EC both during technical sessions dedicated to the different themes and at the same time at the level of interactions at a more political level. The aim is to arrive at the beginning of April with an integrated version and a new version of the plan incorporating both projects and reforms and which will be submitted to the EC in early April after its validation by the Consultation Committee and all the governments of our "beau" country, the approach being inter-federal and including the projects and reforms of all governments. That is why it is necessary to reach a comprehensive agreement in the Conciliation Committee before sending the document to Europe. Since this document will have received, at that time, overall approval from the various members of the ECC and will be consolidated with 100% of the amounts, plus 130% of the projects, I propose, if this committee agrees, to submit to you the version which will be sent to Europe at that time. This will allow us to schedule a special session in April to discuss this draft, which will be submitted to the European Commission on 30 April, so that we can still incorporate the comments and comments that would be made in the final version of the document. Today you ask what return has been given by the European Commission. The latter insists very strongly – for all the Member States, as my colleague Vincent Van Peteghem, who was in the ECFIN committee yesterday, confirmed – on two fundamental aspects. On the project side, she insisted that projects should be more detailed at the operational level, with milestones (milestones) of achievement and objectives (targets) as detailed as possible to enable implementation as quickly as possible. In a recovery policy, we must be able to deploy the means very quickly after the crisis, i.e. by the end of 2021, in 2022 and 2023. On the reform side, the Commission has asked us to reduce the scope of reforms, but to be a more precise step in certain ways and timetables. We are therefore working in this direction and these comments will be incorporated into the second draft which will be submitted in early April and which we could share with Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic413x.u10	Secretary of State, I ask you to close.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic413x.u11	With regard to the specific issues of digitalization, there are 380 million in the Federal Ministry of Digital Affairs. These are Justice and CPS digitization projects and cybersecurity projects. This is a priority of the recovery plan. Let me turn to Mr Loones' specific question. I can confirm that EUR 20 million is currently being allocated to a project to digitise asylum and immigration management processes. In response to Mrs Gijbels' question, there is a ten million project for the digitisation of BOZAR and its impact in Belgium, Europe and the world. Houtmeyers and Verhelst, there are 90 million projects at the federal level in the current state of cybersecurity. These are projects initiated by ministers De Sutter, Verlinden, Dedonder and Van Quickenborne. Mr Van der Donckt, I confirm that there are also 60 million for digitisation projects relating to public social security institutions (IPSS), in particular with projects for collaboration between the various federal public services and INASTI. Mr Ducrame, more than 80% of the amounts will have a direct or indirect impact on the large and small enterprises in this country. I think it is important not to confuse targeted sector-specific crisis exit measures that will specifically aim at helping, in a transitional phase, the horeca sectors and SMEs that have suffered particularly from the crisis and are in a very difficult situation today, and the recovery plan projects that aim to reinvest in order to meet structural challenges of the economy, whether in terms of digitalisation or environmental transition – even if they are intimately linked. This government, which has your party in its ranks, is working on projects to have sector-specific measures in the very short term in order to help the recovery from the crisis of the sectors SME, horeca and cultural that have been heavily affected. There is a need to differentiate between Phase 1 – sectoral measures – and Phase 2 – the measures of the recovery plan to meet the structural challenges of the economy in terms of digitalisation and environmental transition in particular.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic413x.u12	Let us stick to the deadlines. After all, there is also the Secretary of State's offer to come back in April. We can certainly go into his offer with the committee to go into more detail about the plans.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic413x.u13	Mr President, I see my two favourite PSs on the screen, Mr Dermine and Mr Dermagne. It's good to see them. Mr Dermine, I now return to the order of the day and thank you for your answers. I have correctly noted the investments in migration and digitalisation. Meer algemeen stelt u: "For reforms there will be few surprises." On the other hand, you indicate that there is a whole debate going on with the European Commission on reforms, but also 'pour finaliser la selection des projets'. Those are your words. It would be useful to bring that debate to Parliament a little faster after the whole discussion in the Conciliation Committee has been completed. As is the case in the Land Parliaments, it would fit over the federal envelope to link back to Parliament more quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic413x.u14	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your explanation. What you're giving is an absolute added value. This is not entirely on the lists that we have been able to look at ourselves. It is therefore a good thing that we have now learned that there is certainly money available for cybersecurity and digitalisation, among other things. Of course, this is not entirely in line with the transparency you promised in your policy statement. It would be nice if we were to be briefed on this earlier and more in detail. At least I look forward to the follow-up in April.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic413x.u15	Mr Secretary of State, with regard to transparency, I note your appointment for early April. I hope that the documents will be transparent, because I have the impression that you are applying the principle "before the hour, it is not the time; after the hour, it is too late". So let us hope that this transparency is on the table when we have to discuss it. Secondly, you blamed me for listening too much to the European Union and, at the same time, for not doing it enough. That's obviously not what I said.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic413x.u16	I had no doubt, Mr. Van Hees.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic413x.u17	You talked about a paradigm shift and a click on the European Union side. Yet that's not what I notice. Besides, you're saying yourself that we're taking back the old recipes of 2019. Of course, there is a suspension of the liberal austerity policy in terms of fiscal straitjacket. However, the European Union takes advantage of this stimulus plan to impose its liberal reforms, which usually go through the same straitjacket. For this reason, I have the impression that we are still in the same framework and that the Commission is using the pretext of this recovery plan to that end.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic413x.u18	Mr President, if the next time we discuss the issue of the recovery plan with the Secretary of State, he still gives us so little information, that he comes with a helmet, but then a big one! I really find such answers to be answers from old politicians, those of reminding me that my party is part of the government. Frankly, I know that! Is that going to make me a little less critical of the recovery plan you're wearing? No, because this recovery plan, Secretary of State, today has a painful effect that we do not have the impression that it is linked to the covid-19 crisis. We have the impression that it's more like a "like this" recovery plan. You tell us that we must not confuse two parameters, the structural measures we are taking and the more targeted measures that will have to be taken elsewhere. In a number of other European countries more targeted measures have been announced. Here, we do not see that the players in our economy who have suffered the most from the impact of the covid-19 – such as the event, the journey, the contact jobs, the Horeca, the culture and what I still know – are affected by the recovery plan. It's nonsense. I would also like to have a little more details on the elements of pressure that were emitted from the European Commission in relation to what you described as a "reduction in the scope of projects". This is already something that was indicated by the EAC's opinion at the beginning of January. He stressed the need to avoid the spread of resources on a multitude of projects. So what has been told you by the Commission has already been told you by the Central Economic Council. Can you not, Mr Secretary of State, tell us a little more about the content of this information linked to the Commission's desire to see the Belgian plan reduce the scope of its proposals or reforms in the context of the recovery plan? It would nevertheless be interesting to have a little more transparency on the ongoing negotiations with the Commission on a subject such as this, Mr President, in the context of the discussions we have today. Otherwise, what are we talking about?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic413x.u19	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for explaining the various steps. This gives us some insight, but we would have liked more information on the various projects. The only positive thing for me, although it may also be negative, is that we have been whistled back by Europe because it was not enough. That makes it very clear that we must achieve the Milestones and Targets. Mr Ducarme, you have made a justified point. Perhaps the hard-hit sectors have not been included in the re-launch plan. We would like to understand the various points, but the most important thing now is that the measures are given a clear deadline and have an impact. I believe that the relic will also be somewhat self-evident, but I really hope that we can see these milestones and targets clearly. I advise you to write down 31 March, before 1 April and 15 April, because then there is all the recess. Otherwise, I suspect we'll be informed too late to give any feedback.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic413x.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, we can now begin with the questions addressed to Deputy Prime Minister Dermagne.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic413x.u21	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as a former trade unionist, I am used to my mailbox exploding with questions from the workplace or from trade unionists, but it is strange that my mailbox is exploding today by mails from small middlemen. One of the questions raised is the fact that for months there has been no music in the many thousands of closed cafés, restaurants and fitness shops, nor in the hairdressers at the time of submitting my question. The owners of all these items do receive an invoice from Unisono, the former Sabam, and that is very difficult to understand by many operators. For a catering business, the standard annual account is 605 euros, excluding 6 % VAT. Mr. Secretary, why do runners have to pay for music that wasn't played? According to Unisono, the mandatory closed sectors in principle do not receive an invoice. What can you do for the self-employed so that they do not have to plead their case separately at Unisono? Do you foresee a collective solution?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic413x.u22	Mr President, Minister, on 27 January we discussed Sabam invoices and fair remuneration in this committee. We still get complaints from self-employed people who think they are wrongly billed for music that was not played. In the meantime, Minister, has Unisono been consulted with the interest groups in the compulsory closed sectors? If so, what is the result? What initiatives have you already taken or are you planning to take to find a solution? Has the situation been discussed in the government? If so, what is the government's position on this? Is there also a view of an acceptable new regime which the various sectors affected can accept? Is it true that the compensation of EUR 20 million for copyright is not intended to compensate companies for their payment of the Unisono invoice? Can you clarify that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic413x.u23	We all know that the event sector is one of the most affected sectors by the corona measures. On the road to full reopening and relaxation, slight relaxations were proposed in April, May, June and the following months. That offers hope and perspective. There is a music ensemble that hopes to organise small-scale house concerts in May. They aim for 40 visitors to be sure to be in order with the corona measures and would ask for an admission fee of ten euros. The net yield would go to the band. According to Unisono's simulation tool, however, the copyrights amount to 636 euros because the concert would take place in a 1000 square meter garden. For this purpose, a minimum amount of EUR 600 shall apply. Unisono may reduce this amount by considering, on a case-by-case basis, the exceptions to normal rates. However, they cannot and do not want to ensure that the current exceptions will apply in the near future. This creates uncertainty, which means that many small-scale initiatives will not even be launched. We owe the culture and event sector a clear perspective for the coming months. The number of visitors allowed for a given area will be lower than normal due to the corona measures. Will this be taken into account by temporarily suspending or substantially reducing the minimum levels of copyright only on the basis of the surface area? Will you ask Unisono to develop a framework that will make exceptions to standard pricing during the pandemic the rule, and no longer have to be considered on a case-by-case basis? When in general the copyrights for live concerts are calculated on the basis of gross revenues, we see that events with a small yield have to give up a much higher share of their revenues than large-profit initiatives. That's 8 % versus 3 % in the same category. How is this regulation justified and is there, in your view, a more equal treatment at issue in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic413x.u24	Mr Moyaers is no longer here. He was also in another topical debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic413x.u25	Minister, the last Consultation Committee has provided perspectives on the reopening of the Horeca sector, and I was pleased with that. However, in recent days and the figures, particularly at the level of the hospital sector, have somewhat nuanced these prospects. Horeca is one of the sectors most affected by the coronavirus crisis, as is the cultural sector. However, the Unisono platform claims payment for the musical licence, which is usually used to create a sound background in institutions in the Horeca sector. The sector does not understand the request for payment of this licence, although it remained largely closed in 2020. The platform has already proposed to offer the equivalent of a month of use of this license - this sector also lost feathers in the crisis - but this does not seem sufficient. Minister, while you have just released a €19 million compensation package for copyright and related rights to help the cultural sector, which is very good news, what about this situation in the Horeca sector? Are you in contact with Unisono? Is it possible to find viable and acceptable solutions for both parties? The Horeca sector deplored this situation, but about ten minutes ago, I received an email from the managing director of the GAM (Guide des Artistes de la Musique) who wanted to temper some of the comments. Is it possible to find viable and acceptable solutions for both parties?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic413x.u26	Minister, we had a debate on this subject a few weeks ago. New, however, is that Horeca Brussels and the Neutral Syndicate for Self-employed have filed a group complaint against Unisono. From 4 May to 31 December 2020, Catering and Business could count on a one-month copyright solidarity contribution. That agreement was concluded with UNIZO, among other things. In the meantime, however, the catering industry has been closed for quite some time and we can only see that a one-month solidarity contribution is very little. I would also like to stress that the importance of the contributions to Unisono should not be underestimated. After all, they are very important for another sector which has also been very badly affected. However, it cannot be the intention for one sector to be heavily affected to pay for another. We are already asking for a great deal of solidarity from these sectors and there must be other solutions. At the meeting on 27 January, Minister, you said in this committee that you were aware of talks between Sabam and representatives of various sectors, with a view to obtaining an additional gesture for the second period of containment and closure. You were still very optimistic about the outcome of this consultation. In the meantime, however, a group complaint was started. Minister, how did the negotiations end? In view of the group complaint lodged, a solution was not found there. Have you had any further consultations with the organisations involved? Is the meeting still going on? Which slopes do you see to come to a solution?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic413x.u27	Mr President, Minister, today's topical debate on Unisono clearly shows the continuing concern and uncertainty that the sectors are experiencing today. In the meantime, it is the third or fourth time I have asked you a question about this. We often talk about the catering industry, but also other sectors that are closed are obliged to pay that contribution. You have previously stated that you would engage with a number of stakeholders in order to find a solution. Unisono has granted a one-month solidarity discount on the contribution to be paid, but I would call that a charity. In the meantime, the Brussels Catering Federation and the NSZ have filed a group complaint against Sabam in order to find that those fees would not be payable during the mandatory closure. What has been the outcome of the dialogue between you and the stakeholders? What's taking so long? Why do we have to come back to this point so often? Is there a reduction, suspension or remission of the annual fee? In the meantime, Unisono says that those who have been closed for three months can rely on seasonal exploitation, but I think that this is very little known in the affected sectors. Will there be a compensation from the government for the catering operators if they still have to pay for it? I am talking about more than a symbolic gesture. Unisono says she hasn't sent the invoices for the time being, but they will be there soon and will eventually have to be paid. What other initiatives have you taken as Minister of Economy?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic413x.u28	Minister, it is clear that there are two parties. Everyone is in trouble, that is clear: both the hospitality and non-medical contact professions as well as the musicians. Both will receive support for the closure or non-performance imposed. At the hospitality department there will still be invoices coming in. I wonder if there are any other factors coming into the authors' minds. Both groups receive income compensation, but one still receives invoices and the other doesn't. In other places copyrights are still collected, because music is played in shops that are open. That's an income, too. However, I do not know exactly how that balance is put together and who it is the biggest victim. Both are victims, that's obvious. We have also recently heard that a group complaint has been filed. Can you briefly explain what measures have already been taken? Are you working on additional new solutions? Do you think that the parties have already received sufficient support in a different way? Is there still consultation with both actors so that this can be resolved and solidarity between the sectors can be found, rather than the current major disagreement? What steps do you take and what do you intend to take?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic413x.u29	This is a topical debate, so I am offering other Members the opportunity to take the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic413x.u30	Minister, all my colleagues have already described the situation well. I am therefore not going to provide any further information. You indicated that you were discussing this situation within the government because the Unisono platform is demanding the payment of licences to the Horeca sector. Both sectors are in difficulty. The Ecolo-Groen Group would like to know what the possibilities are and whether you can find a viable and acceptable situation for both parties. This is of particular interest to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic413x.u31	Minister, the first time I asked you about this was in November. A little like what my colleague Depraetere said, you seemed to me at the time quite optimistic about how to get out of this case. You haven't done it yet. Today, I am pleased to have introduced the amendment of the Code of Economic Law in 2018 because it now allows class actions for the self-employed. This allows the Horeca and the NIS to legitimately put pressure on this situation because they are asked to pay for months of closure during which the music was not broadcast. There is still a great injustice there. Mr Lacroix spoke of insurance in preparation for the hearing this morning and there was agreement that there was an injustice with respect to premiums. It's the same type of file for Unisono. It's not just the Horeca. It is the sports halls, the contact trades, all these shops that have been closed. We really expect you to find a quick solution in this matter. Indeed, it's a case that's been hanging out for months. Areas that are on their knees and closed cannot be asked to honour this type of bill for periods of forced closure. This must apply, of course, not only today, but also yesterday. I really hope we can get back to the optimism you had on this issue in November.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic413x.u32	It is indeed not easy to understand that closed catering and other items have to pay for music that they do not play. This creates a problematic situation. From a legal point of view, however, the amounts are due. As I said in previous answers to parliamentary questions, this is because of annual contracts and because of regulation. A commercial gesture by the collecting societies is not self-evident either. They are also in a difficult position. Unisono has consulted with the various professional federations, including those of the beauty parlors and the operators of bowlings. Unisono also has regular contacts with the Catering Federations, with Unizo and with the UCM. As you know, on Friday 12 February, the government agreed to EUR 20 million of support for artists. After all, the artists were hit twice. On the one hand, they lose by canceling concerts and other cultural events, fees and royalties for their performances. On the other hand, the forced closure of the catering industry reduces the income from copyright. Compared to 2019, there is a loss of revenue of more than 20%. It has therefore been decided to support the artists in two ways. First of all, as you know, the federal government has agreed on an amount of EUR 1.74 million for collecting societies. This amount corresponds to the use of music in the workplace in federal institutions for the four fiscal years from 2018 to 2021. This is the balance of a historical dispute between the federal government and the copyright and related rights societies. In addition, the Government has also decided to contribute EUR 19.1 million to these companies. This is to cover part of the losses of copyright and related rights in 2020. Minimum and maximum thresholds have been set for payments to ensure that support is as appropriate as possible for each disadvantaged artist. The envelope is linked to an obligation for management companies to speed up payment to rights holders. The final objective is to provide a total of €38 million as soon as possible to the various rightholders - the federal government's 19 million as a lever. This amount must, of course, be supplemented by an equivalent and accelerated payment of duties. Mrs Dierick, at the heart of the matter, no agreement was reached on aid to the catering industry to pay the Unisono fees, on the one hand because the sector can count on other aid measures and, on the other hand, because there are legal and practical problems. In addition, it was possible to terminate the contracts for the year 2021 and conclude new contracts at the time of the reopening. In that case, the fee is adjusted to the number of months of operation. According to my information, 3,000 catering companies have chosen this solution, as recommended by certain professional organisations. Mr Colebunders, you say that, according to Unisono, the invoices are not invoiced to the closed companies, but the invoices are only postponed until the time of reopening. What can I do to help the self-employed? As I have indicated, the proposal has not been accepted to charge the State for three months' hospitality bills. However, I will ensure that Unisono remains in dialogue with the professional organisations to find solutions. As I said in previous answers to parliamentary questions, some adjustments have been made in the meantime. Other adjustments are being discussed. Unisono is prepared to make such an adjustment and expects from the government a compensation corresponding to it. The basic decision on this compensation was taken on 12 February. So the obstacle to an agreement is now gone. It is therefore possible and desirable that discussions should continue. Mr Prévot, you indicate in your question that the platform had already proposed to offer the equivalent of a month of use of this license, since this sector also lost feathers during the crisis, but that did not seem sufficient. You pointed to the difficulty of these rights management companies, which themselves have lost a lot of revenue. I am always hopeful that the ongoing discussions will lead to further progress. I am not of a beat optimism, but I think that the significant financial gesture that has been made by the federal government - more than 20 million euros of measures decided on for artists through rights management companies - will unlock the situation and hope that the discussions will lead to further progress. Contrary to what has been said or written in the press, the negotiations have not yet failed. Unisono is currently gathering information to put a proposal on the table. As Mrs Depraetere and Mr Ducarme have mentioned, there is also a collective action against Unisono. However, according to the information available to me, the introduction of such an action has not been notified to Unisono, which, I hope, also leaves some room for negotiation with a view to finding a solution as soon as possible. As some of you have mentioned, it is not just Horeca and other professions that are involved in this important problem. The voluntary sector is also concerned, in particular sports clubs. For this reason, Unisono also consults with other stakeholders such as, for example, the Leisure Federation, the various sports federations or some dance or bowling clubs, to name but a few. Ladies and gentlemen, the federal government, on the basis of my proposal, has made an important gesture that allows both the support of artists who have seen their income greatly reduced as a result of the crisis, the removal of an obstacle to the resumption of negotiations and, above all, the conclusion of an agreement between the societies managing rights and the federations representing the professions which are particularly affected by the measures taken to combat the crisis and which have had to stop their activities. I therefore always hope that an agreement can be reached in the next few days. In any case, I will do everything in my power to promote the conclusion of this agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic413x.u33	Minister, we have all received an e-mail from Unisono and co. I have received three of them myself and their argument has actually made me even more angry. If you conclude an annual contract, you have to keep it and pay it. They gave some examples in which they considered that this also applied. However, I can give a number of examples where I also have an annual contract and still do not have to pay all year round. Look at the football world that's incredibly difficult. The annual contracts of most football clubs simply continue. We're in an epidemic and everyone needs to get watered up to get out. Whoever leaves the store with an empty shopping cart doesn't have to pay anything. There is therefore no reason to ask for the payment of a license for a period when they were forced to close and no music was played. The NSZ and Horeca Brussels are therefore quite right to take a step further if the consultation is unsuccessful. That's known from IPA. If one doesn't get out, then one gets actions, according to Newton's second law. Does it have to come to the point that the catering industry now has to pay invoices for music she hasn't played? Make sure that the consultation can start again and insist on a solution for all self-employed workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic413x.u34	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. It is good that some nuance has been brought into the debate. We understand the annoyance that exists at the hospitality and hairdressers. It's never nice to have to pay for something that one doesn't use or didn't need. That feels very unfair. We also understand that the cultural sector has been severely affected and that they have no perspective yet, but it is important that there is mutual respect between the two groups. It is good that there will be a dialogue and people will sit around the table again. As a competent minister, you have an important role to play in involving the various parties and in keeping the dialogue going. You have good hope that an agreement will be reached soon, so I hope that the end of this discussion will be in sight and that we will soon have a good understanding. We'll follow up on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic413x.u35	Mr President, Minister, unfortunately I have not received an answer to my question. I have highlighted another aspect and perhaps it did not fit in with this debate. My question was about the fact that the event sector is gradually starting up by organizing events where they use a large area for few spectators because of the covid measures and the problems involved, namely surface-based pricing. That is another aspect of this problem. It is also important to highlight this aspect if we want to provide the event sector with a perspective to launch such events in the coming months. I will put my question again in writing in order to get an answer to that aspect too.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic413x.u36	Minister, thank you for your answers. I have been questioned by many people, including the horeca sector, which has difficulty in having to pay for a service that has not been rendered. I have heard from you that, contrary to what has been said, negotiations are still under way. The platform had proposed to offer the equivalent of a month but this is obviously insufficient for the horeca sector. Let us beware that the amounts made available by the federal government will enable a balanced agreement to be reached in the negotiations. We must take into account the enormous difficulties of the Horeca sector and certainly not oppose two sectors. These sectors suffer and need to be supported. I hope that these negotiations can lead to a consensus that will suit both sides.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic413x.u37	Mr President, Minister, from a legal point of view we have to pay the annual contract, which is, of course, correct. I understand the legal reasoning, but we all feel that this is very unfair. We have also seen many other sectors over the past year, which have also been very badly affected and which have also made efforts in the context of this solidarity during the Corona crisis. I think about the brewers, for example. They have also made a great deal of effort in the hospitality business. The owners of buildings have also made a lot of efforts over the past year at the expense of their own income. Of course, that is not good for anyone, but that is the situation in which we find ourselves. Unisono doesn't do much good for himself. You talked about 3,000 catering stores, a lot of catering stores will terminate their annual contract. They will be closed for at least four months this year, I hope that will remain so. I cannot imagine that this is a better solution for the cultural sector. It is, of course, a good thing that additional support is provided for this sector. I can only thank you for this initiative. I hope that you will continue to work on the consultation. I hear that's what you're up to. It is really very important to ensure that the efforts we have called for over the last year by all those entrepreneurs are not destroyed, because this is felt to be very unfair. That would be very unfortunate. There's got to be a solution. It's a good thing we're still having conversations. I am sure we will come back to that in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic413x.u38	Mr President, Minister, we have been holding this debate in this committee since June last year, when the motion for a resolution was already on the table. Mr Ducarme, who is very concerned today, was then the minister responsible for these matters. He didn't come up with a solution at the time either. The same applies to the people of the majority who are concerned here today, but themselves belong to a party that provides ministers who do not offer the solutions. It is said that there is still a dialogue going on at the moment. This encounters a great deal of incomprehension, not only from the catering industry, but also from the many other sectors affected. Legally, the Unisono contribution may be due, but I find Sabam's style particularly painful in this respect. Basically, we should have canceled our contract and we should have been unlucky. One has to pay for something that one does not use at all. The music of these artists was not played and thus does not open any right. There is therefore no need for effort. Ladies and gentlemen, perhaps we should look at the Sabam annual accounts from the past to see how much millions of euros were in the account at the time. For Sabam, everything just keeps running, like there's no dirt in the air. Artists must continue to receive their compensation while the catering operator whose business is closed sees the costs rise. That's a strange vision of Sabam. Minister, I hope that you will finally be able to provide light at the end of the tunnel in the coming weeks. After all, we have been holding the current debate for almost a year now. It is yet another topical debate. Finally, give the catering industry a perspective and clarity so that they know where they stand.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic413x.u39	Mr President, Minister, it is a very difficult debate. That's obvious. We're not getting out easy. It's very difficult to make the bill for both sides. Help is given to both groups, invoices are also received or missed income is reimbursed. I really hope that with the support given an agreement can be reached. However, it is logical that a catering operator does not understand why he receives an invoice for a non-performance service. He can also not receive payments from customers when his doors are closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic413x.u40	Would you like to replicate any other members? [[No.]] In that case, we can conclude the topical and urgent debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic413x.u41	Mrs. Jadin is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic413x.u42	Minister, following the recent hearing with the banking sector, we heard that Batopin, the consortium of four large banks that will roll out a network of neutral ATMs, wants to rationalise, as it is so well called. Batopin wants to reduce the number of ATMs from roughly 6,000 to 2,000. One sells that in a hurrah mood as a better plan with more spread of vending machines, but it's actually a huge saving operation. One of the four banks in Batopin is Belfius, a government bank. This new localisation plan aims to ensure that 95% of the population has access to a bank machine within a five-mile radius. In this way financial services can be guaranteed to a certain extent. There is a pitfall in that, because if we simply draw a circle with a radius of five kilometres, this will not necessarily improve the accessibility and proximity of a particular ATM. Indeed, in many rural and even urban municipalities, that radius of five kilometres will not guarantee it. In Zelzate, for example, the municipality I come from, 5,000 people are completely cut off from financial services. There is no bank branch anymore for the 5,000 people living in Zelzate-West. If Batopin rolls out his plan in Zelzate, the second smallest municipality of East Flanders, then the accessibility of a bank machine will not improve. In a bird's eye all the corners of Zelzate can be reached within five kilometers, but the municipality is cut in half by a canal and the bridge over it is open twenty times a day. So if you want to pick up money, you are sometimes on the road for twenty minutes to half an hour. So it is not only the distance criterion that is important, Minister, but also the accessibility, hence my questions. Belfius is still a public bank, where social services should be a core task. Will you, as Minister for Economic Affairs, ensure that not only the distance criterion is taken into account, but also the accessibility criteria to avoid situations such as those outlined just now? Will you also ensure that social services are not reduced? Will you, if necessary, use the guide to the fifteen-minute rule, according to the concept of the fifteen-minute city, in which essential social services must be available within 15 minutes on foot or by bike?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic413x.u43	Mr President, Minister, the concern about the disappearance of banking machines is acute in our country. Both local authorities and consumer and senior citizens' associations mobilize each week to deal with the situation. During the plenary session on 4 March, you spoke about your contacts with the Batopin and Jofico platforms, which bring together different banks wishing to pool their distribution networks. You told us that you supported the message of a necessary consultation with local authorities and consumer associations. Minister, Batopin announces that it will allow 95% of the Belgian population to have access to a distributor within a radius of 5 km. What is this percentage today? Knowing that Batopin will have to announce a first part of its plan for the deployment of distributors' networks in March, how will it integrate the fruits of its meeting with local authorities and associations? Are there any guarantees as to the scope of this consultation? Are the Batopin and Jofico networks willing to have their deployment plans validated through the federal or regional governments? Have you discussed this possibility with them? What initiatives do you intend to take if the plans of the two platforms do not meet the expectations of local authorities and consumer associations?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic413x.u44	Minister, the debate is certainly touching this committee. The trend towards the closure of bank offices and also the disappearance of ATMs continues unabated. We therefore see a further centralisation of banking offices, but this is often detrimental to older people and disabled people, as they experience a more detrimental proximity. In addition, we see that bank charges in general, not only for manual operations, continue to increase systematically, while the level of service is falling further. Some of the population is in danger of falling out of the boat, and we must prevent that. The hearings that took place a few weeks ago did not really reassure me. Minister, what steps has the government taken to deal with the problem of the disappearance of bank offices and ATMs in addition to the pending parliamentary initiatives? As a minister, what is your position on the ever-increasing cost of banking compared to the declining level of service? Have you discussed this with the banking sector? What are your views on the Batopin and Jofico projects? In the Batopin project, there is a spread of ATMs to one vending machine every five kilometres. Do you think that's enough? What have you done specifically to ensure good proximity for older people, disabled people and other people in society?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic413x.u45	Mr Minister, this is another debate on two issues. There is a discussion about vending machines and another discussion about the banking offices. I hope your answer will deal with the two aspects. My question is more about the banking offices. As you yourself said at the plenary session of 4 March, there is no provision today for ensuring the physical provision of services for banks. I also note from your policy paper that you are concerned about the impact of the digital divide on the protection of the basic banking system. That is why I have the following questions for you, Minister. Could access to physical banking services be covered by the basic banking arrangements? What are the difficulties with such a piste, if any? Are you willing to give your commitment to work on maximum rates for the physical services provided by banks? Do you believe that such maximum rates should be based on the weak capacity of older people and other people with low digital literacy and not on the profit-making of banks? In a recent opinion, Bpost indicated that it wants to participate actively in a solution to the disappearance of bank offices. Is a scenario in which bpost will play a central role also considered today? Will the banks operating only digitally also be involved in the regulation of minimum physical banking services, otherwise an easy escape rush will be offered which will ultimately be at the disadvantage of the group we want to protect?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic413x.u46	Mr. Chair, Minister, the number of ticket distributors has been decreasing steadily since 2010. In 2019 alone, there were 409 fewer distributors. An increasing number of communes or neighbourhoods in large cities are no longer equipped with distributors. This affects the social link and affects local commerce, not to mention the consequences for people who do not control digital payments. ING, Belfius, KBC and BNP Paribas Fortis want to develop a new common network of vending machines managed by Batopin. The aim is to guarantee 95 % of the population access to a distributor at a maximum distance of 5 km. But, looking more closely, it turns out that this initiative aims to remove two thirds of the ticket machines. It would increase from 7,100 ticket distributors currently to 2,000 to 2,400 in 2024 in 650 to 750 sites, compared with 2,500 currently. The criterion of the maximum distance of 5 km is not sufficient. Accessibility via public transport or on foot must also be taken into account. In densely populated areas, a ticket machine should be available in 15 minutes on foot or by bicycle. Attention must also be paid to socio-economic inequalities: an analysis carried out by Le Soir in November 2018 concluded that there was a positive correlation between the number of banking agencies per capita and the level of wealth of a given area. Minister, do you confirm the positive correlation between the number of banking agencies per capita and the level of wealth in a given area? As Minister of Economy, do you not find it up to you, and not to banks, to define the parameters of the network of ticket distributors? Since the accessibility of ticket distributors is already problematic at present, what are you going to do to at least prevent any decrease in the number of ticket distributors in the coming years? Finally, as a shareholder of Belfius, what will be the state's requirements for this bank with regard to ticket distributors?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic413x.u47	Do other Members wish to join the topical and urgent debate? [[No, no, ……]] Mr Deputy Prime Minister, in that case I will give you the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic413x.u48	Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your various questions, as Mr Vanbesien pointed out, about a general problem and more specific problems, namely both the coverage of our country's territory by the various agencies and ticket distributors and the access of a population that does not master digital tools to basic banking services. I will try to respond to these two elements as I answer. As you know, as many of you have recalled, we have already dealt with these issues in plenary session on 4 March. Batopin is developing its plan for the deployment and location of distributors, the first part of which is expected to be unveiled very soon this month, if there is no delay in its work. The gradual selection of locations in this common network of distributors has begun at Batopin. As you know, as part of this project, participating banks have set themselves the target of giving 95% of the Belgian population access to a distributor within a radius of no more than five kilometres. I think that, like Mr. De Vuyst referred to this, it is also necessary to take into account the specificities of the territory and geography in this context. It is not possible to stop drawing a circle with a radius of five kilometres. Consideration must also be given to certain obstacles, difficulties and realities on the ground. As you know, Batopin's objective has been repeated several times in your committee during the recent hearing in Batopin and Febelfin. It was announced that the first aircraft would be operational by mid-2021. As announced, I pleaded with Batopin that there should be consultation with local authorities, either directly or through regional governments responsible for the supervision of local authorities. I believe that it is in the interests of all, the population and the various municipalities concerned and in the head of these operators Batopin and Jofico, to ensure that these distributors are placed in the best places and that they are accepted both by the population and by the local authorities. Some of these infrastructures will require planning permits in particular. A procedure will be necessary to ensure that these new infrastructures find their place in the territory of these different municipalities. As a bank owned by the State at 100%, Belfius has an exemplary role, in terms of the accessibility of ATMs, but also more generally, around the digital divide. The fact that Belfius is not doing anything about this may be a little exaggerated. The bank participates in the Batopin project and has therefore committed itself to increasing the accessibility of ATMs. Next to the Batopin project, there is also joint venture Jofico which includes banks Crelan, Argenta, Axa, vdk and bpost Bank. In this context, the banks will no longer have their own ticket distribution network, they have entered into a contract for the leasing of these distributors to a third party, which will be responsible for the maintenance and placement on the premises chosen. Banks will determine the location of distributors, but this must be done in good intelligence and in collaboration with regional and/or local authorities. Both the Batopin and Jofico projects are private initiatives in the banking sector, and I am, like you, careful that the stated objectives are the objectives achieved on the ground and that we take into account the difficulty of some people to get to these ticket distributors. I assure you that I will be careful to ensure that the dialogue takes place and that the coverage of the territory is effective as these two projects are deployed. The seventh bpost management contract, currently under negotiation, also has an important role to play in this area. bpost is committed in its current management contract to ensuring the presence of ticket distributors in all municipalities where this service is not offered by another financial institution. In my view, this is an essential point that will have to be renegotiated by the federal government under the new bpost management contract. It is essential for me that this sufficient coverage of distributors throughout the country be ensured, either under the two initiatives mentioned above or under the new bpost management contract. These initiatives are of course interesting and useful. However, they are only part of the solution to the problem of the accessibility of ATMs. They are not enough to address the digitisation of banking services. The introduction of a universal banking service would, in my view, make it possible to respond to the more general problem of digital exclusion brought about by the ever-increasing digitalisation of banking services. It would also be, and this has been mentioned by Mr. Van Lommel, a response to the increasing cost of a range of basic transactions invoiced by banking institutions. In my view, this banking service must ensure that payment account holders are able to manage their account other than online and at a reasonable price. The universal banking service would therefore consist of a number of mandatory minimum banking services linked to a payment account. As I have already had the opportunity to tell you, discussions are currently under way with Febelfin at the level of my firm and those of my colleagues Eva De Bleeker and Vincent Van Petheghem. Negotiations with the sector should lead to concrete solutions to the problem of the digital divide. My colleagues and I want a solution to be found in July this year. It may be a little too early today to go into the content of the protocol in greater depth. But I assure you that the discussions are going well, and that we have set a relatively tight agenda to ensure that, as I have just said, a proposal can be tabled in July of this year again.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic413x.u49	Thank you very much for these answers. We're going to the replicas.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic413x.u50	Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensive answer. I remember two important things. You have said that you will also take into account the specific characteristics of municipalities and certain areas, where the accessibility or proximity of ATMs must also be taken into account, not just the radius of 5 kilometres. I think it is very important that you have said that. I also remember that you also believe that Belfius should continue to play its role as a social service provider. That is also very important. Several colleagues have already said it. We must not assume that everyone is with the story of digital payment. We have to make sure that people are with us, but we cannot ignore the fact that we are still not living in a cashless society. A lot of traders have problems with that. Many traders say that people use Bancontact devices improperly by paying more to collect cash. Seniors also feel limited in their ability to withdraw money. They become dependent on family or friends to collect money or make purchases. This really is a social problem, Minister. I hope that you will use your influence on Belfius, but also on Jofico and Batopin, and urge them to take care of that service and at least ensure that it remains intact and even expands so that people do not fall overboard. Minister, after your answer, I am in a good mood. I am counting on the banks to take account of the accessibility criteria and to ensure that this social service is available within 15 minutes of cycling and walking.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic413x.u51	I'm glad you're friendly when you come to this committee. You may come more.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic413x.u52	Mr Minister, we must remember that banking desertification is not a new phenomenon. It is to be welcomed that with this government and through your reaction, you have decided to take the bull by the horns, especially in relation to the last part of your answer concerning the universal banking service. This is obviously a matter that we will be following very closely with my colleague Vanbesien. As far as distributors are concerned, I hear your answer and I hear your wishes in relation to Batopin and Jofico regarding deployment guarantees. I understand that, through these various projects, we cannot achieve the strengthening of a two-speed Belgium, with desertification in rural areas and in neighbourhoods close to the centres, which would strengthen the digital divide. At this point, we still have no guarantee. I invite you to continue your reflections on this subject. I think there are other examples at European level, particularly in the Netherlands, where they have managed to be out of the box, to consider solutions that allow this deployment and allow for a better association of citizens and local authorities. To be followed. With regard to the role of bpost, I agree with you that the seventh management contract is a fundamental element in relation to this debate, but of course bpost cannot compensate for the full role of banks. It is to the banks that we are also addressing today, given all the investment that the public authorities have made, in particular to save them when they need them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic413x.u53	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed reply. I understand the banks make their accounts at the end of the ride. In fact, we must be careful not to let certain people in our society fall out of the boat. For the sake of clarity, I am not opposed to joint initiatives that would solve the problem in one way or another, such as the Batopin project or the Jofico project. The government often has to intervene as little as possible, but this is something in which the government has to help determine the parameters, because 5 kilometres is very far for certain people, especially when we talk about rural municipalities. I'm from the Kempen. There I often see how big the problem is getting, even in my city of Turnhout, where bank offices are systematically disappearing, along with the vending machines, which then become centralized elsewhere. It is no longer a national problem, it will also become an urban problem in the long term. I understand that the negotiations are currently under way. Those negotiations must also be given every opportunity. I should like to make it quite clear that we will see light at the end of the tunnel in July. I hope that you will be able to come back to the committee with a good result.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic413x.u54	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Ladies and gentlemen, there are several initiatives in this House today and in the banking world about the availability and distribution of ATMs. The attention has been drawn to this. I do not have the impression that the banks' response is sufficient today, but the debate will continue. We now come to the debate on the physical banking services. During hearings, Febelfin gave figures. According to the Federation, there are still six times more banking offices in our country today than in the Netherlands. In fact, Febelfin says in a hidden way that in the coming years it will continue to deteriorate considerably in our country. We must pay attention to this today and start making agreements with the sector. We should also consider the role that the government can play, whether or not via bpost. At the same time, we must also agree on the prices charged for physical banking services. After all, they are in danger of getting out of the way. They absolutely need to be restrained, because this is about a vulnerable group of people. This debate is therefore certainly not closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic413x.u55	Minister, my enthusiasm is not as great as that of my colleague De Vuyst. We learned in the press yesterday that three ING agencies were going to close in the Charleroi region. Last month, there was also a closure at ING in Anderlues. I will read you from the letter that ING sent to its customers announcing this closure: "As you have seen for many months, the Self Bank of Anderlues' agency is very regularly squatted and defiled. Also, for obvious reasons of safety and hygiene, we are forced to close the agency's Self Bank." ING does not lack cynicism to explain the reason for the closure, while on 8 December 2020 it already announced the closure of 62 agencies in 2021. This letter illustrates the bad faith banks can show. I therefore believe that a vigorous intervention by the public authorities in this matter is more than desirable.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic413x.u56	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It's a very important theme. I must honestly say that the hearings on this matter have not really reassured us. There must be an agreement between the government and the financial sector rather quickly in order to bring some peace and quiet. For us, it is very important that this banking service remains accessible and cheap. We believe that a good geographical distribution of ATMs is essential in order to maintain this accessibility. The affordability of banking services must also be guaranteed. In terms of affordability, there are certainly still challenges to the clarity and transparency of the costs charged by banks. A comparison tool already exists, but it is completely unknown to the consumer. We think it is important that it becomes more familiar. We must also pay great attention to the digital trend. We certainly do not want to halt this digital trend, we actually embrace it, but nobody should fall out of the boat. There must therefore be consultation with senior associations, for example, and with the financial sector, to ensure that this digital transition is prepared and that no one falls out of the boat. We hope that an agreement can be reached quickly between the government and the financial sector and that all these aspects are included in it. We will follow that up and look at it quite critically, because for us proximity is very important.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic413x.u57	Mr President, Mrs Houtmeyers, I am aware that it is difficult for SMEs to participate in public procurement. A large percentage of contracts are awarded to large companies. For your second, third and fourth questions, I refer to Minister David Clarinval, who is responsible for SME policy. The specific public contract for a framework agreement for communication and marketing campaigns has made it possible to implement the different principles and recommendations of the charter. In order to make contracts more accessible to undertakings and thus to favour competition, several measures were incorporated into the contract documents. For example, there is the principle of division into lots: the contract was divided into four different lots. The aim is to attract companies specialising in certain types of communication assignments. I am also thinking specifically of young companies that often specialise in new forms of communication. There is also the principle of proportionality of selection conditions. For this contract, the requirements for the technical and professional skills of enterprises were laid down in such a way as to allow SMEs to participate in the public contract. For example, only three references of EUR 10,000 per reference were requested for the last parcel in terms of technical competence. As regards the principle of the publication of the contract, the contract was announced through the mandatory channels, e-Notification at the Belgian level and Tender Electronic Daily (TED) at the European level. In addition, contact was made with the Belgian Association of Communications Offices, requesting that the public contract be distributed to all its members, including many SMEs. The selection phase for this assignment is currently under way. A total of 36 companies have applied. About 15 companies have applied for only one plot. Consequently, the public contract has led to a very large participation of large and small enterprises. An overview of the companies that have been awarded a public communications contract over the past five years by the various FODs is requested through the FOD BOSA and can be delivered in writing later. For the duration of the framework agreement, federal contracting authorities may conclude individual contracts for the execution of their own communication campaigns. For example, this is essential for the FPS Economy. With campaigns, the FPS ensures better consumer protection, for example with the campaign "Don't fall into the trap" against scams or the campaign on the Brexit.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic413x.u58	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your explanation. In practice, we hear that the same companies are often selected for public procurement, even if the tender is issued and many new companies are able to participate in it. However, it continues to be a limited legacy of companies. That is why I would have liked to have received that list. It is not quite clear to me which FOD should I consult?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic413x.u59	It's about the FOD BOSA.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic413x.u60	Then I'm sure we'll get that information. I hope that new companies can be selected for this campaign, that they can take their chances and also get opportunities.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic413x.u61	Mr Vicaire, the SPF Economy already makes available a web application called NACE Search, which allows to search for NACE codes both on the basis of the tree structure of the NACE nomenclature and by keyword. In addition, an explanatory note on the meaning of the codes is also provided. The NACE Search is accessible to all on the SPF Economie website, but also to the company and its agents when using the My Enterpise application, which allows you to view, update and request adjustments to the data entered in the Banque Carrefour des Entreprises. Business counters can provide businesses with all the relevant information on NACE codes when they register or change their activities in the Bank-Carrefour des Entreprises (BCE). Moreover, as with any ECB data, the central contact of the SPF Economy and the ECB's helpdesk are available to answer the various questions. The contact data are mentioned on each page of the FPS Economy website. The Economic Inspectorate regularly monitors the inclusion of business activities in the ECB. The officers of the Economic Inspectorate may send a warning to the undertaking carrying out activities for which it is not registered, draw up a report with a proposal for a transaction or forward it directly to the Public Prosecutor's Office. In the event of a prosecution, the infringement companies are liable to a fine of between €208 and €80,000.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic413x.u62	Minister, thank you for your answers. Before asking the question, I had looked on the ECB's website and had not found it. What about this time of crisis, when many self-employed people find business solutions until their main activity can resume? For the time being, self-employed people must juggle with NACE codes and they clearly need access to this information.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic413x.u63	Debates of the European Parliament 55013705C by Mrs Buyst was withdrawn. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van den Bergh's 55013766C is deleted. Debates of the European Parliament 55013837C by Mr Van Hees was withdrawn. Debates of the European Parliament Ms Moscufo's 55013922C was also withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic413x.u64	Mr President, Minister, some time ago the Consultation Committee decided that the hairdressers in our country could reopen on 13 February and the other contact appeals on 1 March, albeit under the necessary conditions. This is good news for the sector of non-medical contact professions, which generated no or little income for months. Hopefully their time of uncertainty will finally come to an end. However, we must not forget that there is still no clarity for many other sectors. Cafés, restaurants and hotels now have the perspective of May 1, if the figures continue to evolve. However, the future remains a major question mark for the cultural and event sector. Tourism and travel are also confined to the interior. Behind these sectors are all people who, after one year of corona pandemic, have their hands in their hair. Voka already launched a call to the Consultation Committee. Delegated director Hans Maertens literally said: "We ask for a normalization of the economy and of society. We are entitled to a clear reopening agenda." That is why I have the following questions, Minister. Can you acknowledge that the uncertainty for the sectors cited has been slow enough? Would you like to take steps to offer a future perspective to all sectors that are still partially or completely closed? I am thinking of the event sector, but also of the fitness centers. Are you prepared to draw up a roadmap so that every sector knows what it is up to? In the light of the current rising figures, can you guarantee that the sectors that are currently open can also remain open? I'm thinking about the hairdressers, the shops and the other contact professions. Are you thinking of reopening the catering industry at different stages, as happened with the non-medical contact professions?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic413x.u65	Mr President, Mrs Houtmeyers, it is true that many companies and sectors are in uncertainty about the reopening. That is why it is important to offer their prospects. The uncertainty is, of course, linked to the evolution of the epidemiological situation. The Consultation Committee outlined the first steps of the reopening plan, taking into account the need for caution but also the need for perspective. Subject to the evolution of the epidemiological situation, the event and cultural sector will be able to welcome outside 50 people on 1 April, with, of course, respect for the current protocol. Outdoor theme parks can be opened on the same date, of course also with respect to the applicable protocol. However, recreational and tourist trips to and from Belgium remain prohibited until 18 April 2021. Many other sectors are now counting on 1 May for both outdoor and indoor activities, subject to the evolution of the epidemiological situation and subject to compliance with the protocols in force with additional precautions. I'm thinking ventilation, custom protocols or quick tests. These are the following sectors: home delivery and outpatient trade, culture and events, annual markets, flea markets, carnival, fitness, association life, sport, home care, catering inside and outside. The GEMS expert group was invited to draw up, under the coordination of the Commission, an action plan to implement these measures and steps by 19 March.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic413x.u66	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am looking forward to that road map, on which a lot of people are waiting with me. I also hope that the sectors that are now open will remain open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic413x.u67	Minister, it was announced that you would stay until 4:30 p.m. Is that still valid?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic413x.u68	Mr President, I have to leave at 4:45.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic413x.u69	It's settled, that's what was on the agenda. But some members are asking me the question, to be sure. We'll continue until 4:30 p.m. We will see, but it is clear that we can work until that time. Mrs Dierick was just present for her question No. 55014008C, but not anymore. I shall therefore turn to the next question, which is Question No 5, by Mr Beazley, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Mrs Gilson's 55014106C, who is not present either.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic413x.u70	Mr Minister, I have recently received your written reply concerning the packaging of aid granted to large companies. As a reminder, our questions were as follows: "Like other European countries, do you think it appropriate to link the aid granted to large companies in the context of the crisis measures and the recovery plan with the maintenance of employment, the payment of taxes in Belgium, the non-payment of dividends or the non-payment of money in tax havens? Apart from the solutions put in place in our European neighbours, there are other possible avenues, such as refusing aid to companies with comfortable profits or making aid conditional on investment guarantees in the energy transition. What do you think of these proposals? What are you going to do about it?" Your answer was as follows: "The evaluation of these remains in any situation a prerequisite. In this particularly sensitive area, the social partners and the different levels of power will of course be associated with their respective levels and competences. However, it seems to me that it is no longer necessary to hesitate to condition aid for compliance with social and environmental standards." So my questions are as follows. Can you tell us in concrete terms how you will no longer hesitate to condition aid for compliance with social and environmental standards? You seem to want to involve the social partners and the relevant levels of authority in assessing the measures in place. Can you tell us more? We are, of course, in favour of consultation. But do you really think that it should be time to evaluate the measures? Do you not think that the many abuses in this area demonstrate the need to act quickly? In the government agreement, we could read that "the government excludes any access to support and stimulus measures for companies active in tax havens that cannot prove a legitimate financial or economic necessity". Where are we at this level? How have you already translated this measure or how do you intend to do so?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic413x.u71	Mr President, Mr D'Amico, I am of course of the opinion that aid must be conditional on compliance with social and environmental standards. I am therefore paying attention to this aspect of things when the government adopts new measures. In concrete terms, as regards the wage subsidy or rather the support measure granted to the travel sector, several conditions have been laid down by myself and have been followed by the government: a condition for maintaining employment, a ban on the distribution of dividends and an obligation to train workers. However, the primary objective of the measures we are taking is to protect individuals, namely workers. We must therefore ensure, particularly in the context of this crisis, that support measures are accessible and that counter-productive effects are avoided. Workers should not suffer the negative consequences of too strict a conditioning. So the question is not as simple as you seem to suggest, but it must indeed be a particular point of attention. As I have told you, the social partners are regularly consulted, particularly on the question of the various aid schemes. The social partners unanimously called for the prolongation of temporary coronavirus unemployment under the same conditions as those applicable today. This also allows me to make the transition with the other part of your question. As I was saying, as Minister of Labour, I am making sure, when possible, that is, when the deadline allows, to seek the opinion of the social partners on the measures adopted by the government. In this context, the social partners may propose changes, including better conditioning of measures. I am, of course, very attentive to the positions and expressions of the social partners. I would also like to point out that aid in our country is relatively well targeted, compared to other countries. For example, it is enough to compare our aid measures with those decided very recently in the United States, where all households will receive the same financial aid, whether they are rich or poor, in need or not. But we must also realize, as you mentioned in your question, that targeting and conditioning aid, as we do in Belgium, also takes more time for the administration. In the current period of crisis, of course, we must strike a balance between the conditionality of aid, its targeting and the need to act as quickly as possible for the benefit of our companies and their workers. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to commend all the work that has been done by our various administrations during this difficult period. They have been and are still under severe stress, but they have managed to deliver the various aids to companies and their workers as quickly as possible, in accordance with the measures taken. You have recalled the passage of the government agreement which is actually aimed at ensuring that no more aid is granted to companies active in tax havens. This remains an important focus. For the practical implementation of the measure, I would like to refer you to my excellent colleague, Vincent Van Peteghem, who is competent in this field.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic413x.u72	Minister, I thank you for the elements of your response that are enlightening. Yesterday, in a recent Tax Justice Network report on tax evasion, I read that Belgium ranks sixth in the tax haven index for companies. This ranking demonstrates the role of some EU Member States, including Belgium, in tax evasion. There is therefore an urgent need for action in this area. Failure to grant aid to large companies making payments to tax havens would certainly help.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic413x.u73	I apologise for my delay, Mr President, but I had a question in the Committee on Mobility about the location of speed pedal users on the highway. In fact, this question is about the same problem, but it is about a lot more vehicles for slower road use than just the speed pedals. The Law of 2 May 2019 provides that motor vehicles which by mechanical force do not exceed the speed criterion of 25 km/h, such as ordinary electric bicycles, speed pedals, monowheels or electric steps, are not subject to the insurance obligation, with the exception of Class A mopeds. According to the Constitutional Court, this infringes Articles 10 and 11 of the Constitution, in so far as motor vehicles which do not run faster than 25 km/h are excluded from the insurance obligation, without taking into account the mass of those vehicles. The example of the bulldozer and other construction machinery was applied for this purpose. On 28 January, the plenary adopted a draft law on various economic provisions, which requires compulsory insurance for vehicles intended for purposes other than the carriage of goods, such as construction machinery. In the run-up to the ruling of the Constitutional Court, therefore, there was already an initiative to address this. This will take account of large mass vehicles, such as construction machinery, which will in future have to take out compulsory car insurance even if they can't drive faster than 25 km/h. However, it remains unclear whether the exemption from the insurance obligation will continue to apply to an electric bicycle and not to a moped that can drive at the same speed, hence my questions, Minister. What effect does the judgment of the Constitutional Court have on motor vehicles which, by mechanical force, do not run faster than 25 km/h such as electric steps, hoverboards and electric bicycles? Should they not or should they not take out compulsory car insurance for civil liability? In your view, is a legislative initiative necessary to comply with the judgment, with clearer criteria, such as the mass? Will you take an initiative? If so, can you explain this further?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic413x.u74	Mr President, Mr Van den Bergh, the Constitutional Court has indeed ruled that this exception to the obligation to provide insurance infringes Articles 10 and 11 of the Constitution, because the mass of motor vehicles is not taken into account. However, the provision has not been destroyed, which means that it does not disappear from our legal system. It concerns a ruling in the context of a question referred for a preliminary ruling and, consequently, the judgment only applies to this case. However, the ruling has a broader impact. Where a judge is now confronted with the article declared unconstitutional by the Court, the standard in question should be disregarded. At a time when the standard is in danger of being declared unconstitutional, the provision becomes precarious. The ruling therefore has a potential impact on all motorised propulsion equipment, provided they do not exceed the mechanical speed of 25 km/h. I am thinking, for example, of an electric bicycle, an e-step or a hoverboard. I recommend that you contact the insurer to find the best liability cover on a case-by-case basis. It goes without saying that there is a need for legal certainty and clarity. For a legislative initiative to be taken, a thorough analysis of the judgment and an impact analysis are necessary. I'll have it made in the next few days.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic413x.u75	Mr Vice-Prime Minister, your answer confirms our feeling that an uncertain situation has arisen. The referral of the users of those vehicles to the insurance companies is already a signal that the exemption is not 100% certain. However, I doubt whether the insurance broker is the best person to give advice on this. Minister, I call on you to take a legislative initiative quickly in order to stop the uncertainty. That seems to me to be the most important thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic413x.u76	Debates of the European Parliament 55014114C by Mrs Vanrobaeys is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic413x.u77	Minister, the planned obsolescence is fuelling overconsumption and overproduction, thus contributing to the increase in waste and the increase in pollution and waste of raw materials and energy. Since 1 January 2021, France has obliged firms to place on electronic products a note out of ten that translates with a color code the ease or not to repair them. This note is defined on the basis of five main criteria: availability of documentation, accessibility, availability of spare parts, price and a specific criterion by type of device. Are you considering legislation? If so, what will be the deadline? Do you intend to use the French model for which expert working groups determine the repairability index of devices?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic413x.u78	Dear colleague, the repairability of a product begins from the very beginning of its design phase. This step is essential in order to facilitate the re-use, dismantling, repair and re-conditioning of the product, with the aim of optimising its use and extending its service life and thus enabling its dismantling, the reuse of its components and the recycling of materials in a logic of circular economy. Downstream, clear consumer information is needed to compare the repairability of different products. In order to be fully effective and to inform them at best, this repairability scale will have to be combined with a communication on the lifespan of products or the accessibility of spare parts, in particular. These aspects are reflected in our draft federal action plan for the circular economy. We propose to develop a methodology for informing the consumer by the producer. It would cover repairability and guarantee for specific product categories, in accordance with the European generic standard on repairability (EN 45554) under the eco-design directive. Repairscore is one of the tools to achieve all these goals and it deserves to be studied, especially in the light of the French example you cited. With this in mind, we are currently studying French law in depth. This is Act No. 2020-105 of 10 February 2020 on combating waste and the circular economy. We analyse it in order to determine which measures should be adapted and included in the draft plan of action for the circular economy. This action plan is currently being developed and is expected to lead to a concrete proposal next autumn. We will have the opportunity to come back and enrich this plan through our exchanges and discussions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic413x.u79	Minister, thank you for your answer. I am pleased to hear that you are working on this issue. The time has come to combat the programmed obsolescence that can be assimilated to a hostage-taking of the consumer, not to mention the waste and pollution that it generates. The introduction of labelling in the form of an index of repairability, even if it may bear another name, will, I believe, allow some pressure to be exerted and thus some competition between manufacturers. This competition may be exercised for the benefit of the environment and the final consumer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic413x.u80	Minister, I had actually addressed this question to Minister Van Peteghem, but she was referred to this committee, so I suppose I will get a very good answer. Breaking and entering the PC or smartphone are among the top three criminal offences that are committed today. In the province of Limburg alone, the parquet that was taken away from citizens in 2020 was calculated about 25 million euros. Those are numbers for diversity. It leads to family dramas of good citizens seeing their hard-earned savings disappear forever abroad and it poses risks to our local economy. I understand from a reply from Minister Van Quickenborne that there are talks with the financial sector to install a system where fraud and phishing transactions can be detected more quickly. Specifically in the context of phishing, money mules would be exposed more quickly by that system and the system could ensure that stolen funds are blocked and returned to the victims in good time. I have the following questions, Minister. Are you involved in these conversations? Can you give me a little more explanation of the system that we want to develop? Has any timing been set to make the system operational? Finally, it is striking that perpetrators strike much more often just before the start of the weekend. The banking sector then falls silent, making blocking money much more difficult. Do you see opportunities to protect citizens better from this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic413x.u81	Mr Moyaers, I hope you are not disappointed that you will receive an answer from me. The FPS Economy is not involved in the discussions on the development of the application to which you refer. I am not involved either, so I cannot give you any additional information. That said, phishing is a real social problem with serious consequences for its victims. There is a need to further raise awareness and combat this type of fraud directed at the general public. In the short term, there will be consultations between the cabinet of Secretary of State De Bleeker, the administration and my cabinet. There we will discuss what actions will be taken to sensitise the population about phishing. A collaboration with Febelfin will also be considered. I would like to point out that my administration has already taken many initiatives on phishing. Several campaigns have already been launched and there is a lot of information about scams on the website of the FPS Economy. In order to better assess the extent of the problem, the FPS has already developed a hotline.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic413x.u82	Let it be clear that you do not disappoint me as a person. For your answer, I feared a little because you are not really involved. In particular, I understand that I must continue with your colleague Mrs De Bleeker and ask her some follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic413x.u83	It is indeed important for fire insurance to take account of the presence of solar panels, so that the material damage to those solar panels is covered. The price of a fire premium shall be determined, inter alia, on the basis of the value of the property. There are two different systems to estimate the value of a property, namely an expertise at home by a representative of your insurer or an evaluation schedule. In the case of a new application for fire insurance, the value of the capital to be insured is often determined on the basis of a questionnaire. It is therefore very important that a prospective insurer correctly fills out the questionnaire. The questionnaire may or may not take into account the presence of solar panels. If no questions are asked about solar panels, they are automatically insured. That has always been the case in practice. Under an already concluded fire insurance agreement, the policy holder is obliged to communicate new circumstances to the insurer, such as the placement of solar panels. That communication allows the fire insurer to adjust or terminate the fire insurance contract if necessary. Whether or not the damage to solar panels is covered always depends on the contractual terms of the fire insurance agreement. I will ask the industry that the insurance intermediaries make their customers aware of the risk, so that the risk is properly described and they are aware that it is mandatory to notify any risk change.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic413x.u84	Mr President, Minister, thank you for the enlightening answer. There is a great deal of uncertainty among the people who place solar panels on their roofs, so I thank you for your attention and for asking for better information.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic413x.u85	Minister, a while ago an article appeared in the Flemish newspaper De Tijd showing that some recognized bailiffs sell their letterheads to debt collection agencies, which the collection agencies try to motivate people to pay faster. De Tijd received e-mails showing that a particular letterhead was used 2,724 times by a collection agency in one month. The collection agency asked the bailiff's office to deliver the invoice for that purpose. The National Chamber of Court Bailiffs had already noted that it was particularly difficult to lift those facts and did not at all agree with that way of working. The Brussels bailiff, who is responsible for the article in De Tijd, informs his lawyer that through the collection agency's platform, he will handle the final phase, which is the full management, from the exchange of letters to the actual collection of the funds on his third-party account, for his account. All the letterheads have his name on them, including the account number and telephone number, as well as his fax number and the e-mail address of the bailiff's office. A flat-rate fee will be charged for this. 2.043 euros plus 429 euros will be charged for sending those 2,724 letters with the bailiff's letterhead. According to other bailiffs, this would be a suspiciously low cost if those injunctions were also dealt with effectively by the bailiff himself. This suggests that it is more about reselling the data. The Economic Inspectorate stated that she never became aware of bailiffs who apply such a practice. However, the National Chamber of Court Bailiffs stated that its disciplinary committee has already imposed a penalty and that there is also a judicial procedure in progress. In order to be able to act more quickly and efficiently, the National Chamber of Court Bailiffs also makes an effort to establish an independent disciplinary court. Mr Minister, can the Economic Inspectorate take proactive action on this issue? The Economic Inspectorate indicates that it has not received any complaints, but the figures for one month are significant, suggesting that there is a problem. Do you believe that an independent disciplinary court, as proposed by the National Chamber of Court Bailiffs, can provide a solution?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic413x.u86	Mrs Depraetere, monitoring the compliance of collection agencies with the legislation is a priority for the Economic Inspectorate. The inspection plans proactive checks at collection agencies in 2021, in addition to the investigations based on notifications. The investigation powers of the Economic Inspectorate under the Law of 20 December 2002 do not apply to lawyers, bailiffs or judicial officers. They are expressly excluded from Chapter 6, Articles 11, 12 and 13, which regulates the detection and detection of prohibited acts by the FPS Economy. The supervision and control of lawyers and bailiffs shall be governed by the Judicial Code. Lawyers must be a member of the Order of Lawyers and bailiffs of the National Chamber of Bailiffs. Those organs can take disciplinary sanctions. If the examination of the Economic Inspectorate shows that a collection agency carries out a friendly recovery in the name of a lawyer or bailiff, the court shall be informed, in application of Article 29 of the first book of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The supervision and control of lawyers and bailiffs are not within my jurisdiction. So I cannot comment on the establishment of an independent disciplinary court. For this I refer to the Minister of Justice, Vincent Van Quickenborne.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic413x.u87	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is good that there is also a proactive inspection at the collection agencies and that the Economic Inspectorate will use this. In fact, the control of the bailiff offices is not within your jurisdiction. There's a bill ready for PS, sp.a. and CD&V to change that. I think this case shows that it is important that the FPS Economy is competent to carry out checks with the bailiffs and the collection agencies. A level playing field and equal controls for all.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic413x.u88	Mr Minister, anyone looking for a home in an urban environment these days inevitably comes into contact with the closed-circuit bidding system. This practice is currently very common among brokers. In a short time, this system of buying a house has made a lottery and ensured that real estate prices are rushed to the heights. As a potential buyer one is forced into a straitjacket. Those who want a house have no choice but to play the game. Unfortunately, a lot is not to be gained as a potential buyer. Real estate agents very often give up a minimum price instead of a asking price. One viewing day is also announced in advance on which a limited number of potential buyers gets 15 to 30 minutes to visit the house. Now, during the corona pandemic, those rules are even stricter. Who comes first, first served, because after the day of view, potential buyers get one or two days to make an offer under closed cover. They will have only one chance to make that offer, which also means that there is no room for discussion or negotiation, and that people do not know what others are offering, nor how wide the negotiating margin is. This ensures that the price is very high. The only thing one can rely on as a buyer is the information of the broker. I do, however, receive signals that it is often misleading or not transparent. For example, houses are sometimes put up for sale below the estimated market value to attract many potential buyers and then a bid is created, which often means that houses are sold at a much higher price than the initial demand price. Buying a house in this way is no longer a matter of searching and negotiating, but rather of gambling and being lucky. Whoever offers the most may be eligible, but often for a much higher amount than what was originally requested. I have two questions about this. Did the FPS Economy already receive complaints about these practices? Do you, as a minister, consider that a change of law is necessary in order to better protect potential buyers?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic413x.u89	Mr President, Mrs Depraetere, the Economic Inspectorate has so far received one report on such practices in 2017. A real estate agent must behave correctly towards prospective buyers. He also has an information and advisory obligation. The practices you list can therefore be addressed through the provisions on unfair commercial practices, in particular misleading and aggressive commercial practices. There is therefore no need to amend the law in that context.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic413x.u90	Mr President, Minister, I am surprised that there was only one report in 2017. After all, we get regular stories about it. There is indeed a lot of legislation for brokers, indicating that this is an unfair commercial practice. However, we must note that there are too few controls. That will undoubtedly be because there are few complaints about it. However, it appears to be becoming more and more common practice. So the problem certainly exists.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic413x.u91	Mrs Muylle is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic413x.u92	Minister, Mrs Van Bossuyt, according to the text of the Royal Decree of 9 March 2003, owners of old lifts have until the end of 2022 to modernise their lifts from before 1958. A delay of another two years is in preparation, but only for lifts of historical value. For other lifts prior to 1958, the deadline of 31 December 2022 shall be maintained. The deadline has been postponed several times, but this has had little effect. What does have an effect on the number of modernizations are the control campaigns of the FOD Economy and the FOD WASO. These campaigns were launched in 2015. Since then, we have seen a clear rise. Granting delay will not solve the problem, but shift it to the future. We know that from experience. In the case of historic lifts, a further delay is justified. It is not always possible to reach the deadline by the end of 2022 for various reasons. The regions still need to take stock of the heritage-value lifts. Specific technical solutions for the different types of lifts are still to be submitted. There is a shortage of skilled labour to carry out the renovations. The delay must be accompanied by measures to resolve these problems. This requires consultation with the Länder. In 2019 it was agreed that owners, associations and regional partners for heritage would make alternative proposals for modernisation. The FPS Economy would then discuss these proposals with the external technical control services as facilitator. So far, the FPS Economy has not received a proposal. The FPS will contact the Regions in the very short term to determine which lifts are involved and which alternative solutions are possible for each type of lift. At the end of March, a meeting is scheduled with the Flemish Heritage Company. For the other regions, the data are quickly recorded. Consultations will also be held with the inspection firms, Agoria and the owners' associations. With regard to the lift in Ostend, an investigation is under way on the correct application of the Kinney method in carrying out the risk analysis. In the current state of the investigation, I cannot and must not give any more information on this matter. The inspection firms, the sub-committee and the elevator manufacturers each have their own tasks, as described in the Royal Decree of 9 March 2003 on the security of lifts. The inspection firms carry out periodic inspections and a 15-year risk analysis. They also check whether the adjustments achieve the level of security required by the Royal Decree. The lift manufacturers shall propose and apply sufficiently safe solutions after validation by the inspection firms concerned. The Subcommittee shall organise consultations between the safety services of lifts, the representatives of the monument protection services and technical experts in the field of old lifts. It provides advice on prevention measures and modernisation of historically valuable lifts, on the basis of concrete dossiers. The subcommittee is not intended to grant an exception to the security obligation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic413x.u93	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your partial reply. Even though I referred to my question, I remember what was in it and you did not answer some of it. That was about the changes in a brochure about the lighting in the elevator. This is an amendment from 2018, which makes it very difficult for historic lifts with a high heritage value, while it has less impact towards safety. To be honest, this suggests that the historical aspect and heritage value of these lifts are not taken into account. Then I come to the questions to which you have replied. The deadline of 31 December 2022 will therefore be extended, if I have understood you correctly. That would certainly be a good thing in itself, so that the owners of these lifts can fulfil their obligations. There will also be a wide range of consultations. Where does the fear of that Kinney method come from? No one will question the importance of ensuring the safety of lifts. However, we must also look at the historical and heritage aspects of these lifts. They are unique, so we have to keep them, but they must be safe as well. We must take the safety aspect into account, but not go through it in a way that would allow only modern lifts to respond. I therefore hope that it will be looked at in a proportionate manner. It would be a shame if we had to break down those beautiful historic lifts.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic413x.u94	Mrs Depraetere, I am currently in consultation with the insurance sector. A commercial concession by insurers does indeed seem desirable. Some insurers have already taken the initiative to meet all their policyholders or only those who are seriously affected by the crisis. Think of a partial refund of the premium, premium rebates or profit sharing. For example, an insurer has granted a two-month premium discount. Other insurers apply a fare per kilometre. I strongly recommend the insured to let the competition play. According to the FPS Economy, this has led to a reduction in the premium for motor liability of about 20% over 15 years. I also asked the insurers to show greater solidarity with their policyholders. That's in their own best interest, I think. The insurance companies will not soon forget that they have been properly treated by their insurance companies. However, it is uncertain whether it is feasible to adopt a uniform measure. Account will have to be taken of European and Belgian competition rules, insurance technology, prudential rules and differences in the financial situation and portfolio of insurers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic413x.u95	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. It may indeed be in the interests of insurers to show greater solidarity. We have already discussed certain sectors in this House which show a little more solidarity than others. We see abroad that many initiatives are being taken in the insurance sector, including in our neighbouring countries. So it is absolutely possible to do something more. We discussed in committee this morning that the insurance sector will be heard here soon. This will certainly be the subject of discussion. We look forward to your initiative on this matter, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic413x.u96	Debates of the European Parliament 55014541C by Mrs Jadin will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic413x.u97	Mr President, Mrs Lanjri, thank you for your question. The maximum increase in the premium for hospitalisation insurance by applying the medical index depends on the premium originally laid down in the insurance contract. The higher the initial premium, the higher the price increase by applying the medical index. A maximum amount for the increase in the premium is therefore not to be determined. I would like to stress that the medical index is a maximum. An insurer may therefore also decide not to adjust the premium fully or not to the medical index. The adjustment of the premium to the medical index is not a unilateral increase by the insurer. The insured person has accepted the adjustment of the premium to the medical index at the time of conclusion of the contract. Only when the contract contains an indexation clause can the premium be indexed. The insured person may terminate the hospitalisation insurance at least three months before the due date in accordance with the cancellation provisions, except in the case of mutual agreement. However, I recommend that hospitalisation insurance should not be cancelled too quickly. The insurance becomes more expensive and more difficult to take out as someone gets older. It is therefore better to examine with the insurer first whether other solutions are possible to reduce the premium.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic413x.u98	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. Firstly, I note from a number of examples that I get from practice, that things do not always work out as they should. For example, you state that the medical index has been agreed. That's right. Sometimes this index is included in an annex, but it still applies a higher amount than the one in the annex, which in itself is a strange thing. Secondly, those three months' notice is indeed a logical principle. The insured person must be able to cancel three months before the due date. That is not possible, however, if he or she only finds out on the due date that there is a price increase. In that case, it will not be possible to cancel three months in advance. And then the insurance companies refuse the cancellation and the insured person again hangs on to it for a year. In itself, it doesn't make any sense. I do not know whether you can indicate who the persons concerned might be able to address in such cases of abuse or incorrect application of the law.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic413x.u99	I propose that we take one more question. After all, it's 4:30 p.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic413x.u100	Mr Minister, the Council of the European Union has finally decided to approve the draft directive on the Country-by-Country Reporting. I am familiar with this text because, during the former parliamentary term, I sat in the European Parliament and myself was rapporteur on this dossier. This is an important issue because it helps to combat aggressive tax schemes, whether legal or not. Any installation designed to limit a company's tax bill should be visible. Net turnover, pre-tax income, number of employees, taxes paid, etc. should be available. These data will be made public for each country in which these multinationals are active. Mr Minister, in view of this progress which is important in the fight against fiscal crime and in view of the forthcoming negotiations on this subject, I would like to ask you the following questions. Since you participated in the Council meeting which approved this text, can you take stock of this meeting and the motivation of the other Member States? What do you think about possible improvements to the text? Once adopted, should Belgium not put a double stop to transposing this directive, given its importance and the many tax scandals that we have already experienced in our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic413x.u101	Mr President, thank you for your question. I will not allow myself to comment on the quality of parliamentarians, but in any case we are ending with a subject which is indeed important and which has finally seen a major step forward at the last European Council. The Portuguese Presidency of the European Union has indeed succeeded in obtaining a qualified majority to allow Europe to finally take this step further in the fight against fraud and tax evasion by large companies. It took almost five years of discussions and a final political debate in the competitiveness sector of the Council of the European Union, where I represented Belgium, to achieve this progress. You are well aware of this for being a rapporteur when you were a member of the European Parliament. Tax transparency is widely supported in European public opinion, I think. This public opinion no longer accepts that some escape the common rule because they are more clever or better advised than others. Today, in practice, SMEs are taxed where they actually operate, and multinationals are taxed where the tax rate is most attractive to them. This is both an obvious injustice and a distortion of the internal market whose legitimacy is weakened. Belgium therefore fully supports the Portuguese Presidency, which, on the basis of the compromise reached in the Council, will now enter a trialogue with the European Parliament and the European Commission. The compromise text which is on the table responds satisfactorily to a major expectation by Europeans. Belgium supported the efforts of successive presidencies and could have supported the addition of more ambitious elements, particularly on the EUR 750 million threshold. The room for manoeuvre in the Council is, as you know, narrow and unfortunately does not allow more ambition at this stage of the discussion. On the other hand, Belgium takes note of the revision provided for four years after the entry into force of the Directive. On this occasion, we will pay particular attention to ensuring that issues relating to the scope of the directive and the information to be disclosed are dealt with rigorously and transparently. I will certainly be working with my colleague the Minister of Finance to ensure that this directive is transposed as soon as possible. Indeed, I am convinced that, when opacity recedes, tax justice advances. Thank you, honourable Member, for your attention and for your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic413x.u102	Mr Deputy Prime Minister, thank you very much for your reply and your energetic intervention in the Council. I still have some friends there, who give me information. I know you've been very attentive and energetic. As you said, this is an important issue that has broad public support. It is not normal at present that our self-employed, our companies and our employees continue to pay taxes and that the richest of us and the multinationals continue to fraud. This case will have to be followed carefully. The 750 million threshold will have to be revised in a second stage and the transposition will have to be effective in order to achieve more rigour and transparency. I'm counting on you for that. Let us know that my political group will always be behind you for greater transparency, in the interests of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic413x.u103	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Gilson's 55014106C will be cancelled.
