ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u1	Mr President, Minister, the question that has been put is now somewhat dated. The question was asked as a result of the incident in which a plane with a flight route between two European cities was obliged to land at Minsk airport in order to hold a Belarusian opponent. There were convictions from all over the world, both from Europe and from the American President Biden. A first set of sanctions has already been pronounced against Belarus. I have further questions about this. First of all, have you contacted the Belarusian ambassador directly? My first question is therefore that of bilateral contacts. Secondly, will there be sanctions other than that first series? It is particularly important that this does not affect the Belarusian population. This is always a difficult balance when it comes to sanctions. I understand that a lot of companies are in the hands of people from the Belarusian government. In this way, the government is more affected than the population. Are there any sanctions in place? European Union airlines were urged to stop flying over Belarus. Are these provisions mandatory? How can they be enforced? What are the consequences for air traffic? Still related to air traffic. There is a ban on Belarusian airlines flying through European airspace and access to European airports is denied to them. What is the impact of this on Charleroi Airport?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u2	Madame Minister, on 23 May 2021, a Ryanair flight from Athens to Vilnius was intercepted by a Belarusian fighter by order of the Belarusian dictator Lukashenko. The civilian aircraft was obliged to change its course and fly to Minsk to arrest opposition headpiece Roman Protaseevich and Sofia Sapega. The man risks the death penalty in Belarus. The UN has requested guarantees on the safety of Protaseevich and Sapega and an independent investigation. The images released by Belarusian state television are not reassuring. The forced confessions of serious crimes are therefore completely invalid. Many world leaders and organisations have demanded their immediate release. The European Council also issued sanctions against the Belarusian regime on the day after the event. However, Germany's Minister for Foreign Affairs, Heiko Maas, has also threatened with a spiral of sanctions if Belarus does not release the prisoners. He announced that a new set of targeted sanctions against individuals and companies close to the Lukashenko regime would only be the start of economic and financial action against the regime if it did not change course. I have a few questions about this, Madam Secretary. Can you explain the conclusions of the European Council? Why was it decided to separate the hijacking by the Belarusian regime from the strategic analysis of EU-Russia relations? What international sanctions can be imposed against Belarus? What European sanctions are still possible to increase pressure on the Belarusian regime? Do you follow your German colleague's point of view? Will you argue in the Council for a tightening of sanctions if Protaseevich and Sabega are not released? Was the event also discussed in NATO? If so, what did NATO decide? How's the hijacking investigation going? Has that investigation been started yet? Did you summon the ambassador of Belarus? What message did you send?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u3	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen have already outlined the situation, so I will not repeat it. My questions are largely outdated, as action has already been taken at European level. I will therefore confine myself to the questions that are still relevant on this issue, in addition to the questions raised by my fellow Members. Madam Minister, can Belgium, in the light of the situation that is taking place, increase its diplomatic commitment and protection with regard to human rights defenders in Belarus? What options do you see for that? The Foreign Affairs Council discussed the option of economic sanctions and the European Council endorsed them. Could you clarify the exact scope? President Lukashenko survives only through active support from Russia, which is also reflected in the fact that some of his most important state-owned companies are supported by certain oligarchs. Experts actually agree that Belarus cannot be addressed without taking a position on Russia on this issue. What is Belgium's position on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Reynaert. Could you check your microphone's connection? It complicates the work of the interpreters? That would be nice for the rest of this meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u5	Madam Minister, I refer to the question that has been put.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u6	It's yours, dear François!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u7	Madam Minister, since my colleagues have already referred to the facts, we will not dwell on them. We are in the presence of an act of aerial piracy. I don't have any other words. This act is all the more unacceptable because it aims at a flight between two countries of the European Union and because its aim was to kidnap a Belarusian political opponent. Of course, all these issues are a little dated, since sanctions have been decided since then. Nevertheless, I note that the international NGOs and the European Union speak with one voice on this issue, which is therefore an absolute consensus. The President of the European Commission, Mrs von der Leyen, described the incident as totally unacceptable and stated that any violation of international air transport rules must have consequences. Following the European Council resolutions of 24 and 25 May, several economic sanctions and a blacklist of persons and entities were drawn up against the Belarusian regime. Pending the results of the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) investigation, it is clear that a firm and determined position must be maintained by democracies around the world. Minister, since the sanctions came into force, have you contacted the Embassy of Belarus? Are discussions about a potential release of Roman Protasevich possible? What guarantees can we obtain regarding the treatment of the young journalist by the Belarusian authorities? One of my colleagues said that the video in which he appears is rather alarming about his physical condition. Pending the results of the ICAO investigation, should we not appeal to the United Nations authorities to put pressure on the Belarusian regime? Finally, as regards the new European sanctions against the regime, should we not call into question the Eastern Partnership in which Belarus shares economic interests with the Union, in order to force its hand in order to obtain the release of Mr Roman Protasevich?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on Sunday 23 May a Ryanair flight between Athens and Vilnius was diverted to Minsk because of the alleged presence of a bomb on board. A Belarusian fighter aircraft accompanied the civilian Ryanair flight to the landing in Minsk. Activist Roman Protaseevich and his Russian friend Sofia Sapega were taken off the plane and arrested. Roman Protaseevich is 26 years old and played an active role as editor of the press body Nexta. In that position he has emerged as a very pronounced critic of the Lukashenko regime. Already in 2017 he came into the sight of the Belarusian authority. He is on a terrorist list in his country and is also prosecuted for three protest-related so-called crimes. His partner Sofia Sapega is also active against the Lukashenko regime through her blog on the social medium Telegram. Immediately after the forced re-routing of the aircraft, the European Union issued a statement condemning the actions of Belarus and calling for the immediate release of Roman Protassevich and Sofia Sapega. The European Union has also requested an international investigation to determine whether international aviation rules have been violated. At the European Council which followed on 24 and 25 May, the Heads of State and Government of the European Union described the forced landing of Ryanair's aircraft as an unprecedented act. They called on the authorities of Belarus to immediately release Mr. Protassevitch and Ms. Sapega. They also called for an international investigation by ICAO and decided that additional sanctions should be imposed on individuals and entities, including economic entities. They also called on European Union airlines to stop flying over Belarus and on Member States to ban Belarusian airlines from flying over their airspace and landing at European Union airports. On 4 June, the legal actions necessary to ban flights from the European Union to Belarus were completed. The ban on flights by the European Union officially came into force on 5 June and also concerns Belgium. Belarus's aircraft and airlines can no longer take off from, land there or fly over the European Union. As far as our country is concerned, on 27 May, the Belarusian airline Belavia had already voluntarily suspended all flights between Minsk and Brussels South until 30 October 2021. In the other direction, the European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) requested on 2 June that the Member States of the European Union no longer use Belarus' airspace for safety purposes. The European Council of 24 and 25 June again considered the question of Belarus. In its conclusions, the Council reiterates its call for the release of all political prisoners, including Roman Protassevich and his companion. I note that on June 25 the transfer to house arrest of Roman Protassevicth and Sofia Sapega was reported. As far as traditional sanctions are concerned, I shall first look at the packages of sanctions that were already in force. These three packages were announced on 2 October, 6 November and 17 December 2020. They concern key politicians and government members, including President Lukashenko himself, top officials, judges, executives of the criminal authorities, prominent figures from the company members and companies linked to the regime. The restrictive measures include a travel ban, a freezing of assets and a ban on making economic resources available. A total of 88 persons and 7 entities were already on the EU penalty list. They are considered responsible for the repression and intimidation of peaceful demonstrators, opposition members and journalists following the August 2020 elections. A fourth sanction package was adopted at the Foreign Affairs Council on 21 June. It concerns 78 individuals and 8 entities. The aim of this package is to increase pressure on the Lukashenko regime and to encourage a change of behaviour, namely the cessation of repression, the dialogue with the opposition, the organisation of democratic elections and the release of political prisoners and citizens detained without trial. It focuses mainly on representatives of the judiciary, on members of the direct entourage of Lukashenko, on business friends and on managers of major economic entities and of the security apparatus. That package also sanctioned seven individuals and one entity following the incident with the Ryanair flight and implementing the conclusion of the European Council of 24 and 25 May. The first concerns the persons involved in the forced landing and arrest. In addition, sectoral economic sanctions were introduced on 24 June 2021. This is a far-reaching measure, which the EU rarely takes. He deals with the technology of monitoring Internet and telephone communications, petroleum products, potassium chloride and tobacco products. Access to EU capital markets is also restricted. The substantial new sanctions are a very strong signal to the Lukashenko regime. Its rapid acceptance confirms the unanimous EU rejection of recent events. Moreover, as has been said, further sanctions are being prepared. The Belgian approach is that sanctions cannot be an end in themselves, but should be aimed at changing the regime's behaviour. Moreover, it is important that sanctions do as little damage as possible to ordinary people. At the bilateral level too, our country has responded quickly and firmly to the events of 23 May. I spoke on the subject from that very day and the Ambassador of Belarus was summoned to my cabinet the day after the events. The following messages were relayed with insistence: to steal and land an aircraft in order to arrest a political opponent are unacceptable actions in addition to the fact that they raise issues of aviation safety. In addition, it was requested that Roman Protassevich and his companion be immediately released. For Belgium, these latest developments illustrate the oppression of the regime against the democratic opposition and the numerous human rights violations that are taking place in Belarus. Belgium remains mobilized to monitor the situation in international forums, including the OSCE. The Belarusian authorities were again urged to find a democratic solution to the current crisis, to engage in dialogue with the opposition and to hold free and transparent elections. In his reply, the Ambassador of Belarus indicated that his Government was ready to support a possible international investigation, but stressed that Roman Protassevich was, in his view, a criminal under Belarusian law. The Ambassador regretted the sanctions already in place. The NATO Council also issued a statement clearly questioning the Lukashenko regime and condemning forced landing in the strongest possible terms. For its part, NATO demanded the immediate release of Protassevitch and all other political prisoners, the ban on the overflight of Belarusian airspace by the airlines of NATO allies and the ban on Belarusian airlines from entering the airports of NATO member countries. Access to NATO headquarters for Belarusian nationals has been restricted. A review of the Alliance's partnership with Minsk is being evaluated. I shall now turn to the general political situation in Belarus and to the Belgian and European sanctions. Since the fake elections on 9 August 2020, the European Union has acted against the widespread repression against the civilian population. The EU made several statements, sanctions were imposed and the democratic legitimacy of Lukashenko was no longer recognised. There is little hope for a rapid political solution. However, the OSCE's current chair-in-office from Sweden is still willing to mediate, even though the offer was never accepted and has no support from Russia. Opposition leader Svetlana Tichanovskaya has repeatedly launched appeals to the regime to engage in a dialogue to find a way out of the political crisis, which fully supports our country. In response, the regime stated that the leader of the opposition is now regarded as a member of a terrorist movement and will be prosecuted as such. I was able to speak directly to Mrs Tichanovskaya during a bilateral meeting and also when she attended the Foreign Affairs Council on 21 June. We have talked about the delicate balance to be struck between sanctions that affect the regime and the need to spare the population as much as possible. I have confirmed our support for the Belarusian people. The situation in Belarus continues to deteriorate. Lukashenko continues the intimidation and repressive practices. New laws allow the security service to arrest citizens with even more arbitrariness and violence. The violations of human rights by the regime are numerous. Support for civil society and the population through emergency aid must be intensified in order to withstand repression. Economic aid which benefits the population and not the regime must also be continued. In all these areas, concrete steps have been taken in recent months. On 11 December 2020, the European Commission adopted a €24 million aid programme, called "EU for Belarus", which directly benefits the Belarusian population, in particular civil society, young people, small and medium-sized enterprises. This programme is in addition to the €3.7 million EU emergency aid mobilised in 2020 for victims of repression and independent media after the presidential elections in August 2020. On 28 May, the European Union published a comprehensive economic support plan for a future economic Belarus. This plan, which totals €3 billion, reflects the European Union's willingness to support the Belarusian population in the short, medium and long term. Once the democratic transition is launched, the European Union will activate a package of measures that combines grants and loans to attract public and foreign investment. The aim is to help the country stabilize its economy, reform its institutions, increase the resilience of its economy and social fabric in order to unlock its potential for economic growth and stimulate job creation. As you can see, the priority is to focus our actions on supporting the population. In this context, it is important to maintain at a minimum the Eastern Partnership of the European Union with Belarus, which includes visa-issuing measures. Unfortunately, the Lukashenko regime announced on Monday that it was suspending its participation in the Eastern Partnership in response to the adoption of sectoral sanctions. The Belarusian Ambassador to the European Union was also recalled for "consultations". As you can see, this issue is still evolving. At the political level, Belgium is particularly involved in various international fora. Our country is one of the 17 States to have invoked the Moscow Mechanism within the OSCE. The report of this mechanism fully documents the human rights violations and electoral fraud that took place during the elections in August 2020. It contains a series of recommendations for the attention of the Belarusian government. It confirms, on the basis of personal testimony and documents, the falsification of the elections, the massive and systematic violations of human rights and abuses committed by the security forces and the Lukashenko regime. It deals with excessive violence, torture and ill-treatment, including rape, in a climate of total impunity. Since August 2020, more than 2,000 complaints of torture or other inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment have been filed in police custody or during detention. The number of prosecutions against political opponents, human rights defenders or mere indignant demonstrators is close to 900, while the number of persons arbitrarily detained on political grounds continues to increase. There has been no official investigation into human rights violations committed by law enforcement agencies in Belarus. Launched at the end of March, the International Accountability Platform for Belarus is a continuation of the Moscow mechanism and recommendations to the international community. This platform, supported by a large number of countries, including Belgium, will collect documentation that can be used in any national and international judicial proceedings. It is important to emphasize the complementarity of this platform with the mandate of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights. Belgium also participated actively in UN Security Council meetings on the situation of Belarus in September 2020 and in the meeting on media freedom in Belarus in January 2021. A debate on the human rights situation in Belarus took place at the September session of the UN Human Rights Council on the initiative of the EU. In this context, the High Commissioner for Human Rights published an oral interim update of the human rights situation in Belarus in September 2020. Belgium made a national declaration during both debates to emphasise the need for an independent, transparent and impartial international investigation into allegations of torture and other serious human rights violations. In November 2020, the third Universal Periodic Review of Belarus took place within the Human Rights Council. Belgium made recommendations on the abolition of the death penalty, the release and rehabilitation of all political prisoners and respect for the exercise of the right to freedom of expression and peaceful assembly. With regard to Russia's role in this crisis, the Russian Government has fully supported Lukashenko. The regime is becoming increasingly dependent on Russia economically and financially, which has no interest in encouraging Lukashenko to moderate. As early as autumn 2020, President Putin stated that Russia has obligations towards Belarus under the Union Treaty between the two countries. After their meeting in Sochi on 21 May, on which little detail was leaked, Belarus received the third disc of $500 million from a combined state loan of $1.5 billion. The Kremlin commits this loan to clear Belarus's existing debt to Russia and to refinance other bilateral loans. The relationship between Putin and Lukashenko could never be regarded as excellent. It cannot be ruled out that Russia is at the same time discreetly carrying out a fatting process to keep pro-Russian candidates who could replace Lukashenko. Belarus is important to the Russians as a military anchor point at the borders with NATO countries. This will be visible this autumn when the joint military exercise Zapad 2021 takes place on the territory of Belarus. For Moscow, the conflict in Belarus is part of the greater confrontation with the West, hence Belgium, like the NATO and EU partners, is calling for a de-escalation and a stable and predictable relationship with Russia. There are currently 38 Belgians in Belarus. A majority of them have dual nationality. They have all been spared from repression. A number of Belgian travellers are currently staying in the country. Citizens who do not participate in political events do not expose themselves to the increased risk of insecurity. There are currently no complaints about security incidents because of our Belgians. As regards Mr Cogolati's question concerning the reception of Belarusian refugees in Belgium, I invite him to address him to the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, Mr Sammy Mahdi. That, ladies and gentlemen, is what I could say in answer to all your relevant questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u9	Madam Minister, you did indeed give a very full answer, and thank you very much. Everything you have said and listed shows more than clearly that there are serious human rights violations in Belarus and that there can be no rule of law at all. With regard to the possible proclamation of additional sanctions, which you have also mentioned, I think it is very important that the population be spared, as they are already more than enough victims of the ruling regime. Residents should not be punished again for the regime under which they have to live. With regard to the role of Russia, your answer shows how difficult and complicated the situation really is. Maintaining a dialogue with Russia is important, but frankly, I think that the circumstances are making this increasingly difficult. In a conversation I heard someone say that the contacts with Russia can no longer be called dialogues, but only talks. This seems to me to be a good reflection of the way in which Russia is now being treated and perhaps needs to be dealt with. The fact that Russia is playing an increasingly important role does not necessarily mean that Lukashenko is being supported. In the context of the elections, we also see a different pro-Russian candidate being put forward. We also see, in the area of migration, that Russia is beginning to abuse its role in the region there. I think that for many different reasons we all have an interest in following the situation very closely. Your reply also makes it very clear that you are doing so, for which I am grateful.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u10	Madam Minister, thank you for the very comprehensive answer. It is clear that Belarus has greatly exceeded the red line, it was really an act of aggression from a third state. No response or conviction can be severe enough for us. This event must also make it clear that a strong European foreign policy is needed. Lukashenko believes that he is immune to the consequences of his crimes, and we cannot and must not accept that. The citizens of Belarus also need the European Union. The sanctions announced are a very clear signal and additional sanctions are being laid down, which is extremely important. We must continue to increase the pressure and I heard in your reply that this will happen. The credibility and security of the EU are at stake here. Thank you for the strong follow-up to this problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u11	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. An authoritarian approach never ends at the borders of an authoritarian regime. Sooner or later, the oppression and instability that characterize such regimes affect us, and that is exactly what happened to the hijacking of that plane in this particular case. This shows that we are also not safe if the human rights situation in Belarus does not fundamentally improve. Security is not sustainable without freedom and oppression does not end at borders.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u12	Mrs Reynaert, the echo is so important that the interpreters cannot understand you. Would it be possible for you to change places so that the sound is better?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u13	Is the problem solved now?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u14	No, interpreters can't hear you better and can't do their job. I propose that you close your reply here and try to find a more suitable place for the continuation of the commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u15	I'm gonna go find another room, but if you don't mind, I'd still like to come back to Russia. As the Minister has clearly outlined, the situation in Russia and the interconnectedness of relations is an important focus. I also read the conclusions of the European Council of 24-25 June 2021. It states that the European Council asks the European Commission and also the High Representative to consider their respective measures in relation to Russia itself. I also think it is important that Lukashenko's main state-owned companies are fundamentally supported by Russian oligarchs who have parked their assets here in the EU and occasionally reside here. It would be a clear signal if they were also on the licence list.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u16	Madam Minister, it is good to hear that all Belgians residing in Belarus have been spared from repression. With the EU sanctions, a signal has been given to Lukashenko that the current policy, which suppresses political opponents and does not respect human rights, cannot continue. As a counter-reaction, the Belarusian ambassador was recalled from Brussels and Belarus also suspended its participation in the EU's Eastern Partnership. It will still be a long road with undoubtedly escalations and tensions, but everything must be done so that the Belarusian people can again have the right to fair and free elections in which they can elect their President.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u17	Minister, thank you for your long, detailed and detailed answer. I particularly appreciate that you did not evade the question of Russia and its influence on Belarus and its role in Mr Lukashenko's actions. I think it is absolutely necessary to continue following this dossier and not to rely on the temptation of the fait accompli on which Mr Lukashenko obviously plays: after all, it is only one or more individuals, we may forget them. No, it is a matter of not forgetting them and not forgetting the act of air piracy and kidnapping that has been committed on European air territory. Thank you in advance for your follow-up on this important issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u18	Minister, for my part, I believe that everything has been said by colleagues. I thank you for your proactive and energetic multilateral action on this Belarusian issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u19	Mr President, Minister, on Spain and in particular on the Catalan issue, you were in Madrid on 2 June 2021, where you had a number of meetings, including with the President of the Spanish House of Commons or Parliament and also with your fellow Minister for Foreign Affairs. A memorandum of understanding has been signed to strengthen political dialogue and bilateral relations between Belgium and Spain, as we read in the press. I would have liked to ask you a number of questions about this. Firstly, all communication was scrupulously stated that it was specifically about relations between Belgium and Spain, but that it was not so much about what exactly happened in Catalonia as about President Puigdemont who is still here with us on our territory and therefore not about the Catalan issue. A press conference was scheduled with you and the Spanish Foreign Minister, but it was suddenly cancelled. This seemed to coincide with the fact that the Court of Justice had just adopted a position on the same day, namely that the Catalan exiles who sit in the European Parliament should be granted their immunity back. So it's a little weird. On the one hand, there is communication that the Catalan issue has not been addressed. On the other hand, something is happening around the Catalan exiles and a press conference is being stopped. So my first question is what is the right thing to do. Has there been talk of Catalonia or not? In the meantime, things have changed. Catalan political prisoners have been pardoned but no amnesty. Do you think this will strengthen the dialogue between Catalonia and Madrid? Is it not high time for the European Commission to take action to ensure that those involved sit down at the table and speak to each other among equals? Since 2018, Spain has not allowed the diplomatic representation of Flanders. The Flemish diplomatic representation is simply no longer welcome in Spain. I assume that, if you wish to improve relations between Belgium and Spain, you have also raised this issue and that this will change in the future. Is that the case? Is the Flemish diplomatic representation welcome again or not? I'd like to call you not to be naive. The famous Catalan economist Mas-Colell is threatened by the Spanish Court of Auditors, who wants to take away all his assets from him. 33 Nobel Prize winners stand up for him. The former representative of Catalonia in France died. She was threatened, too. They also wanted to impose a penalty payment on her. Now I just found out this afternoon that her daughter will be called upon to pay the penalty. So the daughter has to pay a penalty for her mother, who died. That's the crazy Spanish inquisition. Madam Minister, I hope that you will not remain blind to this and work very actively on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u20	Thank you, Mr Loones, for your question. Try to respect as much as possible for speaking time, because we have a very busy agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u21	Mr President, I withdraw my question. After all, everything is perfectly expressed by Mr Loones.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u22	Mr President, I refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u23	What are your views on a possible inquiry by the European Commission into violations of the rule of law in Spain, as regards political prisoners, given that the Commission is now working on procedures to investigate violations of the rule of law?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u24	Mr President, I hope the sound is better now. Madam Minister, in addition to the questions that Mr Loones has already asked, I would like to ask you the following. In addition to the signing of the Memorandum of Understanding, there were other questions on the Catalan issue, but also on the Mercosur Agreement and on the Presidency of the Council of the European Union 2023-2024. What does the Memorandum of Understanding say? Have you stressed that the Belgian court will decide in complete independence whether or not to extradite to Spain the Catalan politicians residing in Belgium and against whom an arrest warrant has been issued? When will the Belgian diplomat, who is the general representative of the Flemish Government, receive his diplomatic status which was revoked in 2018? What is Belgium's position on the Mercosur agreement? What was your message to Spain about this agreement? With a view to the Presidency of the Council of the European Union, Belgium and Spain wish to coordinate priorities and interests. What are the priorities and interests that Belgium and Spain will jointly defend?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u25	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to place this visit in the right context. At bilateral level, relations between Spain and Belgium are very well developed. These relations do not date from yesterday and go far beyond bilateral contacts at political level. For example, there are important economic links, a continuous exchange between our peoples and cultural and educational links. At European level, we are going to work together as part of the preparation of the Presidency of the European Union in 2023 and 2024 with the trio that Spain, Belgium and Hungary will form. More generally, the positions of Belgium and Spain are often similar and defend the same position on strengthening multilateralism on the international stage. It is in this context that I have decided to visit Spain. It seems to me appropriate now to give new impetus to our bilateral relations. My meeting with my Spanish counterpart was an opportunity to address in depth current issues, both bilateral, European and international. At the bilateral level, we discussed how to strengthen our relations through the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) we signed. We also exchanged views on the responses of our two countries to the pandemic. In addition, I have proposed that Spain be the invited country for a future edition of the Europalia festival. At European level, we have discussed, as indicated, the preparations of our respective EU Council Presidencies, on which we will work as a trio. We also discussed the EU's trade policy, particularly towards Mercosur. I recalled the Belgian position on this issue. We also discussed a new Asylum and Migration Pact. Secondly, we have raised a number of topical international issues on the situation in the Middle East. Spain and Belgium share a desire to actively promote the conditions that make a peace solution possible. With regard to Western Sahara, I recalled the importance of mediation under the auspices of the United Nations. Finally, we prepared the next NATO summit and discussed disarmament initiatives. With regard to the Catalan question, which seems to be mobilising some of you, and which I have indeed been able to address in Madrid, I would remind you that my remarks in this committee on 4 May are factual and not political. Spain is a rule of law which is not subject to any procedure based on Article 7 of the Treaty on European Union. I have also pointed out that, on the basis of the principle of separation of powers, it is not for me to comment on ongoing legal proceedings. So we did not talk about a specific case in Madrid, either about Mr Puigdemont or about other specific cases. Belgium respects the decisions of the Spanish courts and expects the same respect for its own decisions in the framework of good bilateral judicial cooperation. The Catalan question is an internal Spanish problem for us, which must be resolved within the framework of the Spanish Constitution. In Madrid, moreover, I have repeatedly stressed the importance of dialogue. My Spanish interlocutors have informed me of certain initiatives that are precisely part of an approach to dialogue, for example the announcement of a forthcoming meeting between Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez and the Catalan regional president Pere Aragonès. The Spanish Government is also considering a revision of the Penal Code with regard to sedition, which could result in a reduction in prison sentences related to this type of offence. Finally, I note that the Spanish Government has formally forgiven nine Catalan women prisoners for their involvement in the organisation of the referendum. You also had a question about the contents of the Memorandum of Understanding signed during my visit. The aim of this MoU is to create a new dynamic in bilateral relations between Belgium and Spain. This will take the form of regular political and administrative consultations, including bilateral ministerial meetings and meetings between senior officials, in order to develop and deepen cooperation at bilateral, European and multilateral level. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that the FPS Foreign Affairs has signed memorandums of understanding and political consultation with many countries. This was recently the case with Italy, for example. There were also interesting questions about the press conference. There was no press conference. You don't have to go get weird explanations all over the place. There was no press conference simply because Spain did not want it on internal policy issues which, according to the information I have received, have absolutely nothing to do with the Catalan question. Mrs Van Bossuyt, Mr Loones, you asked me about the question of the representation of Flanders in Spain, at least in the written text of your questions, not in your oral questions. That matter has not been discussed. There was no request from the Flemish Government to intervene in this respect. We are therefore not aware of the intentions of the Spanish authority in this regard. One of Mrs Van Bossuyt's questions concerns the state of play of the so-called Article 7 procedure on the rule of law in Poland and Hungary. The General Affairs Council last discussed it in September 2020. The Benelux countries then spoke with one voice to reiterate their concerns about the lack of positive developments in the two Member States. In the absence of physical meetings, hearings were no longer held after December 2019, when Hungary was questioned about its efforts to strengthen the rule of law. The Portuguese Presidency is planning a hearing with Hungary and Poland. We have also heard a lot from the media. However, the questions raised by a possible inquiry by the European Commission concerning violations of the rule of law in Spain are not addressed. As far as Mercosur is concerned, I can confirm that I was able to discuss this issue with my Spanish colleague. In general, and not surprisingly, Spain is in favour of a rapid conclusion of a Mercosur agreement, which, apart from the commercial aspect and the benefits of internal market access for our European companies from Madrid, is also seen as a geopolitically important agreement. My colleague, who had just returned from a trip to Latin America, where she visited Brazil, Paraguay and Ecuador, told me in particular that she was concerned about the increasing influence of some of our trading competitors in that region. It is therefore important for Europe to approve the Mercosur agreement as soon as possible, otherwise we could lose influence and market share in the region to the benefit of other players. I have reiterated Belgium's position on this agreement, in line with what I have said several times in this House. I have therefore stressed, among other things, that the agreement in its present form cannot count on our support and that Belgium is still deeply concerned about the social and environmental standards contained in it and about the cumulative effect of the trade concession on our sensitive sectors, including agriculture. Finally, I stressed that the additional protocol which the committee is working on should, in our opinion, have the same status as the agreement itself and ensure that social and environmental standards are binding and enforceable. Mrs Reynaert, we also had the opportunity to discuss briefly the preparation of our Presidency strio of the EU Council in 2023-2024, with Hungary as well as our two countries. It is still too early to discuss in detail which priority points will be included in our joint programme, but it is clear that we share the intention to make full use of the Council to make progress on the various legislative dossiers being dealt with at the time we take over the Presidency. We have agreed to keep each other regularly informed of our preparations and to continue working within a year to formalise a common agenda of the trio. I have also stressed that our Presidency will be special in the sense that it will come to the end of the European legislature, which can give us the opportunity to carry out a broader reflection as a trio in order to define certain trends or priorities for the next European legislature. From this point of view, we will be following closely the work of the conference on the future of Europe, which I hope will also produce ideas.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u26	Madam Minister, you may not know, but at the time you were in Spain, we had a committee for European affairs here with the Prime Minister. That is where I myself asked him the questions about Spain and the cooperation agreement that would be concluded. The Prime Minister was very clear about it. He at least indicated that some questions could be asked about the state of the rule of law. Moreover, we have seen the Prime Minister's recent statements on Hungary. In it he says that the European Union is not an ATM but a union of values. We are more than just pennies, we are also a union of values. I always notice that this point is being made in relation to a number of countries, but not in relation to Spain. What struck me today is how you define the term rule of law. I find that quite shocking. In fact, you said today that it is all right if there is no Article 7 procedure against a Member State. Then there is the rule of law. Madam Minister, I would like to remind you that there is an economist who is in danger of being ruined by the Spanish state. He is defended by 33 Nobel Prize winners for economics. The representative of the Catalan embassy in France would be ruined, but she died in the meantime. Now they're going to prosecute her daughter, as I said in my question. You say you are not aware of the Flemish representation in Spain. I'm sorry, but it's your job to be aware of that and to talk about it when you're in Spain. The fact that the Flemish political representative is sanctioned by Spain requires your intervention, that is your job and your role. Let the European Union be an effective Union of values and not just an ATM, but for all European Member States, including Spain.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u27	Mr. Loones, I have a lot of appreciation for people who are passionate about doing what they do. What I appreciate less is your intention process. I gave you a detailed answer on what we did. In the report you will be able to read what I said and not how you understood it, because that is two different things. It is also a matter of respect not to put words in my mouth that I did not say. You mentioned my job, too. What I do will certainly not be perfect, but it is certainly better than you make it appear, but that is normal in your role as a member of the opposition. When I take such a trip, we always contact the different states to know if there are any questions. That was not the case here. I have answered your questions in full.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u28	Madam Secretary, I don't have the habit of putting words in someone's mouth. Let us indeed read the report. I believe, however, that you said: 'There is no Article 7 procedure against Spain and this country is therefore a rule of law'.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u29	No, that's not exactly what I said. You will be able to read that in the report. Between a cause and an effect, it is not quite the same in French or Dutch. You're going to read the report, it's factual. It's factual, there's no Article 7, that's one point. It is factual, Spain is, in our view, a rule of law.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u30	Madam Secretary, do you think Spain is a rule of law, or is it not? You say yes and you refer to the fact that the Article 7 procedure does not apply. The essence is that the credibility of the entire European Union is undermined. We do not put things in order and do not assess all the European Member States in the same way, and that causes people to revolt against the European Union. As a result, we are losing our credibility. When the High Representative visits Borrell in Moscow, he is laughed at because he himself cannot put his own house in order in the European Union, because he himself is a Spaniard and does not name the things he should be appointed. The European Union is a union of values and should be for everything, for everyone and for every Member State.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u31	Madam Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. I share your view on respect for the rule of law in Spain. Today it can be seen that the government of Pedro Sánchez is continuing the mission of reconciliation between Catalonia and Spain in the broad sense. This mission is carried out in the spirit of the Spanish Constitution, forged on the principle of balance and which has built one of the most decentralized countries in Europe, in which regions such as Catalonia have autonomous police powers. Although there are still things to be improved everywhere in Belgium or Spain, it remains true that the current government is on the path of reconciliation and negotiation with Catalonia, unlike its predecessor, the government of Rajoy, which is rather authoritarian and has broken the democratic resistance of some Catalans. As for the comparison on the values between Spain, Hungary, Poland or the states of this acabit led by an extreme right or even an extreme right conservative, I find it totally inappropriate. I would like to stress with pleasure and conclude my speech that it is always curious that the N-VA asks the Federal State to defend Flanders' interests abroad, whereas they themselves seem to be at least federal supporters of the autonomy they claim for Flanders! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u32	Madam Minister, during your visit a wide range of comments were raised, but you could at least have referred to the issue of Catalan political prisoners as a signal. I'm going to deal with the Catalan issue. Nine Catalan political prisoners have recently been pardoned in Spain. But that doesn't apply to Carlos Puigdemont. Moreover, there is a substantial difference between pardon and amnesty. By pardon, an already pronounced sentence is waived, but the prosecutions that are still pending are not stopped. So it's only about people who've already been convicted. Puigdemont and the exile ministers in Belgium have still not been convicted. As long as they are not condemned, they cannot enjoy mercy. If Puigdemont were to return to Spain, he would be imprisoned and convicted, and only then, if Madrid wills, can he be pardoned. Spain only pardoned it because the criticism of its human rights violations against Catalans, among others, was compounded by the Council of Europe. By pardoning them, they respond to that criticism without losing face. Amnesty continues. And admit that Spain has indeed gone too far in its policy of persecution. It is therefore a missed opportunity, Madam Minister, that you did not even bother to raise the Catalan issue. No, you simply choose to turn the Catalan page.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u33	Madam Minister, thank you very much for your reply. Much has already been said about the Catalan issue. I shall confine myself to one point. I think it would be a good signal that Spain will send a signal and that the general representative of the Flemish Government will get his diplomatic status back, because he is a Belgian diplomat after all. A Belgian diplomat who loses his status with the direct result of parliamentarians' statements, that seems to me to be a bridge too far. It would be a good signal if diplomatic status were to be returned. As far as the Mercosur agreement is concerned, thank you for defending the Belgian position. I understand that Spain and the Latin American countries are under a lot of pressure from mainly China, although you did not mention that country, which also wants to conclude trade agreements. Thank you for making it very clear that Belgium will not approve the agreement as it stands. It is important to continue to defend the position of binding and enforceable labour and social rights and environmental standards.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u34	Mr President, in order to make things a little bit better, I would refer to my written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u35	What opportunities do you see to ensure that Hungary finally complies with the EU's values and standards and withdraws them?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u36	Mr President, Madam Deputy Prime Minister, I will sum up my question by reminding you that we have already had an opportunity to discuss the matter in plenary, and that I also asked the Prime Minister two weeks ago. Today, I would like a clearer answer from you to the following questions. Is Belgium prepared to go to the Court of Justice of the European Union alone if the Commission does not go so far? Is it also prepared to bring the matter before the High Court of the Council of Europe, the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, alone or with the other 16 Member States involved?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u37	Madam Minister, unlike a number of other colleagues, I do not have any emotional questions on this issue, but rather a technical question in the light of the multiannual financial framework 2021-2027. My question was therefore addressed to the Minister of Finance, but was sent to this committee. However, the Minister of Finance is responsible for the draft legislation on that multiannual financial framework. Why this technical budget question was sent to this committee is a mystery to me, but there are more things in this House that I do not understand. Mr Lacroix has already referred to the question to the Prime Minister in plenary two weeks ago. The Prime Minister then felt that the European Commission should act as a guardian of fundamental rights by activating the rule of law mechanism. The European Commission does not agree with this. According to a spokesperson of the European Commission, the rule of law mechanism or the conditionality mechanism can only be used in cases of legal action which directly harm the European budget or the protection of the EU's financial interests. The Commission spokesperson was very clear and said that on this basis the EU sees no connection between the Hungarian law and the conditionality mechanism. The European Commission therefore states that the rule of law mechanism can only be used in the event of legal actions that harm the European budget or the protection of the EU's financial interests and not, as Prime Minister De Croo claimed in plenary, in the event of a law that is democratically voted by a Member State in the national parliament. Can you clarify the use of the rule of law mechanism, Madam Secretary? Who is right here, the Prime Minister or the European Commission?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u38	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen have already outlined the context of the new anti-Igbtqi law introduced by Hungary. At the initiative of the Benelux countries, led by Belgium, a letter was sent to the European Commission asking that the Commission challenge the law before the European Court of Justice. 17 countries have already joined. That is a good and strong signal, but no further steps are being taken at Council and European Council level to take sanctions against the Hungarian Government. The European Commission has already sent a letter to the Hungarian Government expressing its objections to the legislation. That is a first step towards a formal notice of formal notice of formal notice. The Netherlands, France and Denmark are thinking of making a complaint themselves and therefore initiating proceedings with the European Court of Justice. Belgium has traditionally been a champion of the rights of lgbtqi. Will Belgium agree to this? What do you think of the option of extending the scope of the current Article 7 procedure to the Igbtqi issue? What scope do you see for strengthening the current Article 7 procedures? This procedure can only be applied by unanimity. Do you think it's time to change that procedure? What do you think of the European Commission's attitude to await the application of the rule of law mechanism to the ruling of the European Court of Justice?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u39	Madam Minister, some of the questions I addressed to you in plenary last Thursday have not been answered. Firstly, there are levers that we have at national level, namely the suspension of certain bilateral agreements or official relations with Hungary. Belgium remains an important trading partner for Hungary, with Belgian investors among the top ten foreign investors in Hungary, with 300 investment firms based there. I am also concerned about the action for failure to fulfil obligations which Belgium could bring before the European Commission for its opinion, without having to wait for a common position between the Member States, but also about the support to be given to Hungarian civil society. Minister, was the Hungarian homophobic law discussed at last Thursday's European Council? What decisions have emerged? What is the status of the Article 7 procedure of the Treaty of the European Union launched in September 2018? Do you not fear that the follow-up to this procedure will be undermined by Slovenia's resumption of the presidency of the European Union on 1 July, knowing that Prime Minister Janez Jansa has taken care not to criticize his ally Viktor Orban, considering that "new unnecessary divisions" should be avoided? What progress has been made in implementing the conditionality of European funds to respect the rule of law as provided for in Article 6 of the Regulation of 16 December 2020? Does the European Union Member States which have signed your initiative intend to bring an action against Hungary for failure to act before the Court of Justice of the European Union? Do you confirm that Portugal will join this initiative on 1 July? Therefore, will these 18 Member States be able to refer the matter to the European Court of Human Rights, as permitted by Article 33 of the European Convention on Human Rights? Twenty eminent university professors recall this very accurately, in a very recent carte blanche. If the Commission did not finally act on its own, does the Belgian Government intend, as Article 259 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union allows it, to refer the matter to the European Commission for its own opinion and then to the Court of Justice? What is the status of the analysis of the impact of the Hungarian law on free movement? Is the suspension of official relations envisaged by the federated entities, as, for example, the Wallonia-Brussels Federation has done with Poland? Is there any consultation with federated entities in this regard? Will the bilateral agreements of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation in the field of teaching the French language, culture or research be maintained? You also said last Thursday that the sanctions mechanisms would not target the Hungarian population.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u40	Mrs. Rohonyi, can you conclude, please?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u41	Therefore, in addition to the safeguards contained in European law, how does your government intend to support Hungarian civil society in practice? Finally, this will be my very last question: what economic and commercial levers do you intend to operate?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u42	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in my view, much of this has already been answered in plenary last week. At any rate, I would like to take this opportunity to assure you once again of my full determination to defend this fundamental issue. As you know, the Hungarian Parliament has adopted a law that stigmatizes and discriminates against LGBTQI people. It violates freedom of expression, which is unacceptable. European values are the cement of our Union and we do not accept an à la carte Union. I've already said it and I'm saying it again. Following the adoption of this law on 15 June, I immediately initiated the drafting of a joint declaration by the Benelux countries. This declaration has since been co-signed by 17 Member States. This number could continue to evolve in the coming weeks. In this declaration, the co-signatories call in particular on the Commission to make use of all the tools at its disposal to ensure full respect for Community law, including by bringing the matter before the Court of Justice of the European Union. On 23 June, I personally wrote a letter to the President of the European Commission to express our deep concern about this law and to assure it of Belgium's support in the proceedings that will be initiated. The issue was also discussed last week in the European Council, where a large majority of Member States, namely 19, voted against the law. The President of the Commission has confirmed to the Heads of State or Government that it will use all possible remedies if Hungary does not amend the provision in question. In concrete terms, the European Commission has already sent a letter of formal notice to the Hungarian Minister of Justice, which clearly states that certain provisions of the law, if they enter into force, would be contrary to European law. I repeat that this is not yet the case. The Commission asks the Hungarian Minister for an explanation before 30 June and will not hesitate to take action if the law enters into force. I fully support this approach of the Commission, which acts as guardian of the Treaties. I believe that a parallel procedure by the Member States is not appropriate at this stage. However, it is clear that Belgium and the like-minded other countries want to pursue this matter to the end. We believe that this issue will ultimately have to be brought before the European Court of Justice. We will therefore continue to conduct this fight on this fundamental issue in the various ad hoc European international fora and at the appropriate time. I now turn to the question on the procedure of "Article 7" with regard to Hungary. This procedure, launched in 2018 by a resolution of the European Parliament, covers, inter alia, the freedom of expression and the rights of persons from minorities. It is therefore already possible to address the situation of LGBTQI people in Hungary in the context of the hearings provided for in the procedure. That is precisely what we, together with my European colleagues, did during several hours of debate at Hungary's last hearing in the General Affairs Council on 22 June. It is true that the "Article 7" procedure is a heavy undertaking which, because of its technical constraints, in terms of the majority required, does not at present lead to sanctions. However, Belgium believes that this exercise should be maintained as long as infringements of the rule of law and the values of the European Union continue. A change in the rules of Article 7 would require a unanimous amendment of the European Treaties, which is therefore not a realistic option at the moment. You also referred to the statements made by a Member State on Article 50. It is true that each Member State of the Union may, in accordance with its constitutional rules, decide to use that Article and withdraw from the Union. It is therefore a choice of the Member State concerned. Personally, I am convinced that this is not the right way forward and that, in addition to the necessary infringement procedure, we should, in particular, continue the dialogue with the Hungarian Government in order to try to convince it of the validity of our arguments and at the same time make clear what we consider to be a red line. In view of the importance of the issue, I have preferred to present them personally to the Foreign Affairs Council in the presence of my Hungarian colleague, rather than summoning the Ambassador to Belgium. The Hungarian embassy's agent in Brussels presented a written statement on the law to my cabinet on 24 June. On that occasion, Belgium's position was reiterated. I am also asked about possible measures to be taken by the federated entities. I cannot, of course, prejudge these. There is also the question of the possible use of economic and commercial levers. First things first, as I said this morning for another file. In my view, the procedures currently under way must be able to succeed first. In reply to your questions concerning violations of law by EU Member States and the conditionality mechanism, I can tell you the following. Following a compromise reached at the European Council at the end of 2020, the Regulation establishing a conditionality mechanism for protecting the EU budget was adopted. The mechanism entered into force in January 2021. However, the conclusions of the European Council require the European Commission, in consultation with the Member States, to draw up guidelines on how it will implement the Regulation. If an action for annulment of the Regulation is brought, as Hungary and Poland did in March 2021, the European Commission will not submit the final guidelines for the Regulation until the Court of Justice of the European Union has given a ruling on the appeal, so that all relevant elements of the judgment can be taken into account. The European Commission is actively working on the guidelines and has already submitted a first draft to the Member States on 14 June. However, it will have to await the outcome of the action for annulment brought by Hungary and Poland before submitting and implementing the definitive guidelines for the application of the Regulation in question. The arguments put forward by Hungary and Poland in their appeals are essentially the following: the absence of a legal basis in the Treaties enabling the European Commission to make the granting of funds subject to the principles of the rule of law, the regulation affects the powers of the Member States, a breach of the general principles of European law, mainly legal certainty, due to the lack of objectivity and clarity of the conditions under which the mechanism can be invoked, and a breach of Article 7 of the Treaty on European Union, since the Regulation constitutes a special application of that Article. The ten EU Member States, including Belgium, are taking part in the procedure before the European Court of Justice in support of the Council. Both Parliament and the Council have submitted their defences. The Court has granted the application for an accelerated procedure. A ruling is expected in autumn 2021. A hearing will take place in mid-October where the Member States can put forward their arguments. Belgium has strongly supported the adoption of this mechanism and is determined to defend it before the Court together with the Council and other Member States. On the question of an appeal to the European Court of Human Rights, it is a body primarily responsible for the appeals of litigants. Inter-State remedies are indeed possible but extremely rare and often involve bilateral conflicts or disputes. In case that is not clear, I repeat that we do not exclude anything. What is excluded is to allow the situation to float as it currently does, but this is not the case since the European Commission has seized the case. We wish to allow the European Commission to complete the procedures which it considers useful to start, on the basis of which we will take a new attitude.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u43	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I heard a very different tone from your answer to the previous question. You are talking about red lines and the Union is not one of them à la carte. In any case, the imprisonment of democratically elected politicians should also be a red line in the European Union. Love is love; we hear that more often these days, but unfortunately that is not yet the case in every Member State of the European Union. We can only regret that and indeed we must consider what can be done about it. I agree that we must first allow the European Commission to play its role. After all, the European Commission is the guardian of the Treaties. Let's see what comes out of it. However, on the basis of conversations with a number of people, I fear that it will not be so easy. At present, we see a central role for the Court of Justice in the current cases. That is Article 2 of the Treaty on European Union, which lays down the fundamental rights on which the Union is based. As Mr Reynaert has already pointed out, although the Igbtq rights are not mentioned literally, we may be able to place them under human rights. In addition, there is the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, but its application is not evident either as a Member State implements Union law. So I am very curious how the court will deal with this. I look forward to the arrest. I was a little surprised why you have not yet summoned the Hungarian ambassador. In an earlier debate, we talked about the incident with Belarus, for which you asked the Ambassador, even the day after the facts had taken place. The Hungarian ambassador was even on Seventh Day last Sunday. I do not see why he should not accept your request or your invitation. It is also important to raise the issue at bilateral level. Unlike colleagues who might argue for economic sanctions, I think it would be quite absurd for us to punish our companies and our people for a somewhat absurd piece of legislation that is being adopted in other countries of the European Union. In my view, we must now wait for the further steps of the European Commission and the Court of Justice to see what we can do.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u44	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask each of you to respect the time allowed to speak because our agenda is very busy. The meeting will be long since the Deputy Prime Minister told us that she could answer your questions until 7:30 p.m. In any event, I would like us to move forward in our work.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u45	Mr President, I shall therefore try to be brief. Madam Deputy Prime Minister, first of all, I would like to thank you for the quality of your answer. I understand that inter-State remedies are extremely rare and relate to bilateral cases, which does not seem to be the case here. You do not rule out anything, but you want to give the European Commission the chance to go through its resources and expertise in this area. I can follow you. However, it is true that if the European Commission delays taking decisions that fall within its competence, you will have to take the initiative, together with the Prime Minister, as the Deputy Prime Minister in charge of European Affairs and Foreign Affairs of Belgium, to go to the Court of Justice of the European Union on behalf of Belgium, to refer the matter to the European Court of Human Rights and, perhaps, to convince other Member States to join you. Indeed, it is human beings who are suffering and being discriminated against. There is therefore no question of an abstract file. I know your motivation on the subject. But at some point, you will have to stop what is happening in Hungary, without waiting for a lack of unanimity on a decision that could be taken. Indeed, I fear that states such as Poland and Slovenia will not allow us to get to the end of this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u46	Madam Minister, I will not comment on the substance of the matter, which I leave to my colleagues in the committee here. For me, this is certainly an internal Hungarian matter. I would like to repeat the answer to my technical financial question as to whether the Prime Minister or the European Commission was right. From your answer, I would point out that the Commission was ultimately right to invoke the rule of law mechanism within the framework of the multiannual financial framework. So it was actually a little muscle roll from the Prime Minister in plenary. At present, other avenues are apparently being pursued, which may be feasible, for example the procedure through the European Court of Justice or the Article 7 procedure, which is documented.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u47	Minister, thank you for the quality of your detailed answers. I understand the reasoning that the first step in the action must be for the European Commission (EC). I also hear your firmness not to leave this Hungarian law without consequence if, of course, the EC could not take the initiatives we hope to take. I also hear and agree with Mrs Van Bossuyt when she explains that, in fact, the Treaties were not prepared for such a situation. It's serious! I believe that many interpretations of this Hungarian law as a violation of universal rights would seem necessary. This is a suggestion that could be put to our colleagues in the European Parliament. We will remain attentive to this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u48	Madam Minister, first of all, I would like to thank you very much for your very clear and very detailed answers to all my questions. On one point, I would like to go into more detail, following on from what Mr Lacroix said. Indeed, the European Commission is usually the guardian of the Treaties. If there is a problem with European law, we always look at that European Commission first. It is significant that three Member States wish to activate Article 259 of the Treaty, if necessary. A full procedure must be followed. If a Member State wishes to lodge a complaint with the European Court of Justice, it must submit it to the European Commission, which then gives a reasoned opinion on the complaint. It could already be a clear signal that, when the procedure is launched, a group of Member States will announce to the European Commission a complaint if it does not progress. Perhaps that could be considered, all the more so because it is already happening in other Member States.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u49	Minister, thank you for your answers. I would also like to thank colleagues for having been so numerous indignant about this situation and for demanding strong action. Contrary to what has been said by some of my colleagues, two weeks ago, it is not only now that the Orban government has crossed the red line with this homophobic law. For a long time now, the Orban government has crossed the red line, from violations of LGBT rights to freedom of expression, association and freedom of the press. Since 2011, since the amendment of the Hungarian Constitution, this government has been attacking LGBT rights. Therefore, this homophobic law was inscribed in the stars. That's why we called you again, Minister. We needed guarantees that this time the Orban government will not get away with it. I hear the levers that are at our disposal. It is true that, at European Union level, our actions are more or less limited, even with Article 7 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, given the number of allies Mr Orban enjoys within the European Union. I am thinking not only of Poland but also of the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Slovenia, which takes over the presidency of the European Union. I didn't hear you about that. There are also Articles 3 and 4 of the Treaty of the Union on the conditionality regime for European funds which are limited to a risk to the financial and non-democratic interests of the European Union. And then there is the judicial lever that I suggest you activate without further delay because I think it is the most interesting lever for us today. We all know very well that Mr Orban will not change his law. There is a referral to the Court of Justice of the European Union. At the level of the European Commission and on our own initiative, we really must not be afraid to act on this lever. There is a lever on which I did not hear you when I asked you the question, it is the referral to the European Court of Human Rights. This track is particularly interesting because it can succeed. The European Court of Human Rights condemned Russia in 2017 for a similar law.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u50	I'm asking you to close.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u51	The European Court of Human Rights condemned Russia in 2017 for a law similar to the one Hungary has just enacted, believing that it was precisely encouraging homophobia. This would allow us to strongly recall that there is no Europe à la carte, but only one Europe, the Europe of values that must be respected in order to enter the European Union but also to remain there.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u52	Mrs Rohonyi, thank you for ensuring that you remain on time. You have exceeded your speaking time by almost a minute, and many of us are asking questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u53	Madam Minister, the law adopted in Hungary is indeed particularly serious, and you had the opportunity to speak on this issue in plenary last week. You reminded us of Belgium's strong commitment to combating all forms of discrimination, including discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity. You have told us here how you started drawing up a joint statement by the Foreign Ministers on Hungary, followed by 17 Member States of the European Union. I am, as you know, particularly proud that our country, through you, was thus able to initiate such an initiative. I agree with you that the values that underpin the European Union are not negotiable à la carte. In the blue sky of freedom and tolerance, the colors of the rainbow indeed have their place, and to make shine the freedoms, our freedoms, the freedoms of all, is a daily work, a long-term work. The situation shows us in Europe, it is contrasted and every day we have to put the work back on the job, if we have to, in the long run, by seizing the Court of Justice of the European Union, but I know that I can trust you in order to move this cause forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u54	I refer to the question that has been put.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u55	Informal discussions were held in Geneva from 27 to 29 April under the auspices of the Secretary-General of the United Nations. The leaders of the Greek Cypriot and Turkish Cypriot communities participated. The Foreign Ministers of the Guarantor Powers, Turkey, Greece and the United Kingdom, were also present. The purpose of the meeting was to examine the extent to which the conditions had been met in order to allow for a formal resumption of negotiations on the reunification of the island. The European Union, which is in principle at the negotiating table as an observer, was not invited this time. Turkey and the Turkish Cypriot leaders opposed this. As you pointed out in your question, the Turkish Cypriots and Turkey have changed the parameters of the negotiations unilaterally over the past year. The presidential elections of October 2020 in Northern Cyprus were won by Ersin Tatar. Unlike his predecessor, Ersin Tatar is in favour of independence. His two-state solution is contrary to the UN Security Council Resolution, which sets out parameters within the framework of a "bizonal and bi-Community federation to be established with political equality between the two communities and with legal personality, sovereignty and one citizenship." Belgium's position is therefore that the existing parameters of the negotiations contained in the Security Council resolution must be respected. However, the parameters can be changed if both parties agree. Compromises between Greek and Turkish Cypriots will always be respected. Following the meeting in Geneva from 27 to 29 April, UN Secretary-General António Guterres had to establish that the positions of the two parties were not sufficiently close to allow an immediate formal resumption of negotiations on the reunification of the island. He intends to organise a new round of informal talks in a few months' time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u56	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. One of the reasons why the talks have been tough is the fact that Turkey and Turkish Cyprus are always putting forward the two-state solution. Last year, during a visit to Turkish Cyprus, Turkish President Erdogan spoke openly loud language to Europe. Erdogan has not changed his mind: he wants two independent states in Cyprus and thus excludes reunification. At the same time, he said he was tired of the diplomatic games about oil and gas supplies in the eastern Mediterranean. Such statements are of course not conducive to the negotiations and possible discussions in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u57	Mr President, Madam Minister, last year the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons (OPCW) published an investigation attesting that the Syrian regime had used sarin and chlorine in Latamné in March 2017. Pressure has risen a little bit in recent weeks after the release of a second OPCW report incriminating Damascus, this time for a chlorine attack in the city of Saraqeb in 2018. Damascus reportedly failed to respond to OPCW requests to declare the weapons used and to disclose its stockpiles. On 21 April, of the 193 member States of the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, 87 countries voted in favour of the suspension of Syria's rights for its alleged use of chemical weapons, 15 countries voted against, including Syria, Russia, China and Iran and 34 abstained. Syria will now be deprived of the right to vote at the Annual Conference of Member States, will no longer be eligible for the Executive Council and will no longer be able to hold any position in the organization. Minister, has Belgium positioned itself on this matter? If so, how? Have NATO partners expressed a common position on the Syrian regime's use of chemical weapons?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u58	Mr. Cogolati is not present. The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u59	Mr President, I did not hear if Mr Cogolati was present.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u60	He's not here because of illness.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u61	Mr President, I will see how to organize myself. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. The presidential elections in Syria at the end of May were not legitimate because they did not comply with UN Security Council resolution 2254. They did not take place in a political process aimed at ending a conflict, nor in accordance with the criteria for holding free, fair and democratic elections. The High Representative for Foreign Policy of the European Union, Mr Josep Borrell, made it clear in a public statement that these presidential elections were not democratic because, among other things, all Syrians, including refugees and people from the diaspora, could not participate. Belgium publicly supported Mr Borrell's statement. Normal diplomatic relations with Syria can only be restored after a process of political reform. At present, a number of embassies, including those of the Member States of the European Union, are still operational in Damascus. Bulgaria, Cyprus, the Czech Republic and Hungary are present in Syria through embassies. Another group of countries had opened an embassy with local staff and regularly conducted diplomatic missions from Beirut. Our main neighbours, whether France, the Netherlands or Germany, do not have any diplomatic representation there, just like our country, since the closure of our embassies at the beginning of the conflict in Syria. In addition, the number of Arab countries moving to Damascus is increasing. It is these same countries, like Egypt or the United Arab Emirates, that advocate regional normalization with ties with Syria, including within the Arab League. For Belgium, a credible transition process leading to a lasting political agreement can lead to the strengthening of our diplomatic ties with Damascus. This condition is not met today. Diplomatic contacts with the Syrian regime are currently limited to the minimum and established in cases of strict necessity. In a limited number of consular cases, contact with the Syrian authorities is necessary for proper follow-up. As host of the European institutions, Belgium must also maintain a number of administrative contacts with the Syrian mission to the European Union. However, there has been no political contact with the Syrian authorities since the closure of the embassies in 2012. Our country co-sponsored the decision suspending Syria's rights and privileges, first in the OPCW Executive Council in which we currently sit and in the Conference of States Parties of which Belgium is Co-Chair. Belgium has actively encouraged other States to support this decision. The broad support with which this decision was voted by the EU and NATO countries but also more broadly reflects the international community's willingness to sanction Syria for non-compliance with its obligations as a State party to the Chemical Weapons Convention. Our action cannot, of course, stop there. The perpetrators of such war crimes must be punished for their actions. To this end, the General Assembly of the United Nations has established Syria's impartial and independent international mechanism. Belgium is one of the major voluntary contributors to the IIIM of approximately $1.6 million and has worked successfully for funding from the regular budget of the United Nations. I also refer to the recent joint forum initiated by the French Foreign Minister, whom I have co-signed with 16 other ministers. In it, we strongly condemn the use of chemical weapons in Syria. We strongly oppose impunity and call for the prosecution of those responsible for these serious crimes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u62	I thank the Deputy Prime Minister for her clear answer to the Belgian and NATO positions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u63	I'm doing the same.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u64	Mr. President, Madam Deputy Prime Minister, my question is dated April 23, 2021. On 19 April 2021, the European Union's foreign ministers discussed in video conferencing, in particular on Russia, and expressed concern about the deterioration of the relationship with Moscow. The Head of Diplomacy of the European Union, Josep Borrell, said that, at the end of the meeting, he deplored the continued deterioration of relations with Russia. And since April 23, 2021, I don't think the sun has returned. The French president, Emmanuel Macron, is also said to have announced a break in the policy of dialogue with the Kremlin. He would have said that it is important to clearly define red lines with Russia. And this is about Alexei Navalny, the situation in Ukraine and also Belarus. Minister, what position did Belgium take on Russia at the meeting of Foreign Ministers on 19 April 2021? As my question is a little dated, could you update your answers a little bit?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u65	Mr President, together with Christophe Lacroix, we are forming a binome this afternoon on these various subjects. My questions also concerned this famous list of inamic countries of Russia and the massive presence of Russians in the Arctic.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u66	Colleagues, the list of incidents with Moscow has grown considerably in recent months. Russia, both as regards its internal developments and as regards its action on the international scene, has been at the heart of our concerns at the last meetings of the External Affairs Council of the European Union. The European Council considered this issue on 24 and 25 June. It confirmed the current approach of firmness towards Russia but also of selective engagement when it is in the interest of the European Union. At the Foreign Affairs Council on 19 April, Ministers discussed two ongoing issues concerning Russia. The state of health of opposition leader Alexei Navalny was the subject of a joint statement calling on the Russian authorities to give him immediate access to doctors with his confidence. European ministers also discussed the expulsion of 18 Russian diplomats by the Czech Republic following the involvement of Russian military intelligence officers in the explosion of a Czech ammunition depot in 2014. Our country supports the decisions taken by the Czech Republic. With regard to Russia's list of inamic countries, Moscow announced on 15 May that the Czech Republic and the United States were included in the list. The European Union deplored this measure and called on Moscow to reconsider its decision in order to avoid a further deterioration of relations that had already been put to the test. The European Union and Belgium consider that the Russian allegations are unfounded and that this decree is incompatible with the 1961 Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations. On the issue of the Arctic, on 20 May, the second meeting of the Foreign Ministers of the Arctic Council was held in Reykjavik. Ministers from the eight Arctic States were all present, and the European Union was present as an observer. The role of the Arctic Council as a platform for peaceful cooperation in the Arctic has been confirmed. The joint declaration focuses on the sustainable economy, social development and quality of life of local and indigenous people in the context of climate change and the deterioration of the ecological situation. After Iceland, the presidency of the Arctic Council returns for the next two years to Russia, which announced the following three priorities: social development, environmental protection and economic development of the region. In your question, Mrs Jadin, you also refer to the intensification of Russian military activities in the area. Despite the constructive atmosphere within the Arctic Council, Russia and the United States continue to be concerned about their respective military presence. In this context, the United States has recently renewed and strengthened its defence cooperation with Norway. Although military and security issues are not covered by the Arctic Council, Russia has proposed a gradual resumption of consultations among the Chiefs of Defence of the eight Arctic countries. These consultations took place at regular intervals in the past but were interrupted in 2014 due to the Russian occupation of Crimea. The Arctic is also more often on NATO's agenda because of increased geopolitical competition in the region. At this stage, it is mainly about sharing information and monitoring developments in the region. The Alliance is aware of the considerable potential impact of developments in the Arctic on the security of the euro area and should therefore be given the necessary attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u67	Madam Deputy Prime Minister, I agree with you that, in relation to Russia and its decisions, we must react with the utmost firmness and vigilance and, above all, that we must offer a united European front. I am very pleased that, like your European counterparts, you consider the Czech Republic to be an unfriendly country in the eyes of Russia to be a totally unfounded act. As with China, we must not give in to the sirens of temptation - to which some might give in - whenever the interests and freedom of the EU can be called into question by powers such as Russia. We have to stand up, as you said. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u68	Madam Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your answers on the Russian side. I agree with Mr. Lacroix. Union is the key to the EU and must also demonstrate it on the international stage, which will give it even more credibility in the future. It is very good that the EU has reacted in such a way to the Czech Republic's inclusion in a list of inamic countries. On the second part, that of the Arctic, I would also like to thank you for your answers. The general evolution is worrying and we would be well advised to follow it with great attention, namely that of the progressive militarization and the forces in place in this region of the world. Together with my colleague Jasper Pillen, I intend to table a motion for a resolution on this subject. There will be still room for discussion in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u69	Madam Deputy Prime Minister, I speak to you about your competence for general policy. In the coalition agreement, we read the government's ambition to prepare for the next state reform. So there's a lot of work on the table. I always find it interesting to see exactly how that will be handled. One of the ways to make that tangible is to know how many people and resources are put on that file. I put the question to the relevant ministers, Mrs Verlinden and Mr Clarinval, who answered the question for their cabinet. They did refer to the fact that this was the responsibility of the whole government. They told me that every cabinet of the Deputy Ministers has freed people who are working on that state reform. That is why I am asking you this question, Madam Secretary. You are the last in my round of questions, for which I apologize, because I had to postpone the question a number of times. Madam Secretary, how many people are working in your cabinet on the state reform file?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u70	Mr President, Mr Loones, I did not know that you had asked the question to the other ministers. In reply to your question on the follow-up to the discussions and preparations for future institutional reforms, I can tell you that several staff members of my policy cell and my General Policy Cell will continue to work on this issue. This can be explained by the transversal nature of the themes to be studied in the various subjects. We do not intend to call on external experts at the moment. With the current composition of my team, we should be able to ensure the necessary follow-up. No additional funding is therefore provided for the recruitment of an external expert.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u71	Madam Minister, it is a similar answer to that of all your other colleagues. Most of the time, your other colleagues say they're asking the cabinet lawyer to follow up. You say everyone follows you a little bit. I just want to remind you that, if everyone is competent, there is a risk that no one will become competent in the end. That is why I ask you to follow it closely, also because the government agreement not only talks about the ambition to prepare a new state reform, but also to ensure an asymmetric policy now. Normally, you have already been contacted by your fellow ministers in order to be able to deal with a number of issues differentiated for Flanders, Wallonia and Brussels, where necessary. For your specific area, I am thinking of the cooperation agreement and diplomatic representation. They belong very clearly to your portfolio. That is why I would ask you to put in place sufficient man or woman power here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u72	Mr Loones, as far as the competence of foreign affairs is concerned, I have already had personal contact with my fellow Prime Ministers to see how far they stand. We also know that this was a working point that was started a few years ago. So we're not starting from scratch. We take this seriously, of course. Everyone will have to make an effort to reach an agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u73	Mr President, Mrs Ponthier, the focus of foreign trade has been on the regions since the state reforms of 1980, 1992 and 2002. They are also the first responsible for attracting foreign direct investment to our country. Attracting the investment of Chinese Alibaba was therefore first and foremost philotized by the Agence wallonne à l'Exportation et aux Investissements Etrangers (AWEX). The federal government and the federal diplomacy have supported these efforts, at the request of the Walloon Region. As you may know, there was also an active interest from our neighbouring countries in attracting the investment. The Chinese interlocutor in the file was the company Alibaba and not the Chinese state. As regards the espionage risk associated with the company Alibaba, the FPS Foreign Affairs does not have a mandate to carry out such investigations. However, the services do not fail to draw attention, in their contacts with both the regional authorities and Belgian companies, to the risk of espionage on them and to certain Chinese practices arising from the social credit system, which you spoke about. It also addresses the obligations imposed on Chinese companies by their government. Thanks to its logistical assets and multimodal platforms, Belgium has important asset cards for foreign investors. By nature, Belgium is committed to good connectivity with countries inside and outside Europe. However, our country is aware that China is trying to extend its influence to third markets and even to Europe through the Belt and Road Initiative, a flagship initiative of Chinese foreign policy with a geopolitical and economic impact. The federal government didn't sign a MoU with China on the Belt and Road Initiative and doesn't intend to. Belgium is committed to the European approach to connectivity based on sustainable social, environmental and tax standards, which should ensure a level playing field for our economic operators. With regard to the consular benefits you are talking about, Mrs Ponthier, all applications for visas are dealt with in accordance with the rules of art, within the time limits laid down by law. For more information on this, I refer to the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration. Alibaba and its affiliates linked to Liège airport were nominated by the agency AWEX for the fast track list, which contains some 200 Belgian and Chinese companies that can avail themselves of a simplified visa procedure. Since the outbreak of COVID-19, the consular post for essential travel visas has requested a letter of support from Awex for the Belgian inviting authority. The persons concerned do not benefit from any other consular benefits. Our embassy in Beijing delivered 23 visas, 28 in 2019 and 4 for 2021. The Consulate General of Belgium in Shanghai delivered 20 visas for essential travel for this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u74	Madam Deputy Prime Minister, you refer to the regions for a number of aspects of the problem, and that is, of course, also partly true. The powers are partly regional, but the Belgian authorities still have a responsibility. The support of Belgian diplomacy is also reflected in this dossier. There are many concerns. Initially, the Belgian government in globo rolled out the red carpet for this Chinese internetreus, which has very close links with the Chinese government, read: the CCP. You say it's not about the Chinese state, but those ties are very tight. They initially talked about a win-win situation, but in the meantime, the euphoria of that time quickly replaced justified and predictable concerns. The concern for job losses is inherent in international e-commerce, as it exhausts the local economic fabric. Soon it became clear that we were actually rolled by the Chinese government, not least by the number of jobs that were quickly adjusted from the initial 900 to 300. Moreover, the realization that through the implementation of the logistics hub of Alibaba in Liège, we have opened the doors to espionage and unauthorized data flows. We simply cannot deny that. The responsibility of the Belgian government in this respect is immense and crucial throughout the whole story. The Chinese espionage activities, the transmission of Belgian customer data to the Chinese Central Bank and thus the Chinese government are now perfectly possible. There's absolutely nothing you can do about it. Speaking of a naive Beijing policy, this government is pursuing. China is becoming increasingly aggressive and, in our opinion, Belgium has once again fallen into this mirage that was told to them. We find this extremely regrettable.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u75	Mr President, I have a purely practical question first. I have heard that Madam Secretary will stay until 7.30 p.m. I still have a whole series of questions. So I would have liked to stay in your company and her company until 7:30. Unfortunately, it is nothing personal, however, my daughter has for the umpteenth time twisted her foot. It's said that girls aren't wild, but she's already broken one foot and one shoulder. My son hasn't broken anything yet. Yesterday she did it again and so I have to go to the doctor later at 5:30 p.m. So my collaborator will translate my questions that are addressed between my current question and 7.30 p.m. into a written question. Thank you, therefore, for your understanding. I now turn to my question about the corona certificate. Madam Minister, the question that has been put has already been partially obsolete. In the meantime, everyone knows what the corona certificate is and who can get it. Nevertheless, a number of points have not yet been fully answered or clarified. I would like to ask you a question about that. Firstly, does Belgium believe that people who have been vaccinated with Chinese and Russian vaccines should also be able to access our country? A second question concerns recognition, including outside the European Union, and the possible use of the corona certificate outside the European Union. In the meantime, we know that, if I am right, Norway and Switzerland will recognise the corona certificate as well. What happens to the United Kingdom and, for example, to the United States? Are there negotiations with these countries at European level or even at bilateral level?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u76	Mrs Van Bossuyt, it goes without saying that the conversion of your oral questions into written questions is not a problem, except of course if they are joint questions, in which case you should turn to the Members who have joined their questions for their approval. But I think you know that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u77	Mr President, I do not know what rules the committee operates under. If the questions are attached, I can respond orally. The answers are prepared anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u78	Minister, thank you for your understanding. Mrs Van Bossuyt, you will have an answer which you can consult.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u79	Mrs Van Bossuyt, I will be happy to answer your questions in the best possible way. What you have just asked for is not in your written question, except as regards the recognition of the vaccination certificate. I will try with the information I have today, but I apologize if it is not entirely correct: I will then give you a written correction. The first question is which vaccines can be accepted on our territory. We opt for a European approach and we ask each Member State to do so, but not every Member State does so. Hungary, for example, has used the Sputnik vaccine. So there is a difference there, but first and foremost, we are using as broad a European approach as possible. As far as the recognition of vaccines is concerned, of course, we are asking for the position of the EEA. As soon as the EEA recognises a vaccine, we believe that we should accept it. But again, I speak without having checked with my cabinet, so I will check that again and possibly correct it. We are currently discussing the mutual recognition of the vaccination certificate, or rather the COOVID certificate, which is not just a vaccination certificate, because it is also about the PCR test and proof of recovery. I have heard that on 15 June there was an EU-US summit which agreed to set up a working group to "allow the resumption of travel in a permanent and safe way." I am convinced that the reading and acceptance of such a certificate with the US will be necessary. So there is certainly a will to work on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u80	Madam Minister, thank you for the answer and for your understanding. As I understand it, the EEA is investigating the Sputnik vaccine. We will soon know more about this. For the US, we still have to wait for the result. You did not say whether an agreement was concluded with the United Kingdom on the recognition and use of the corona certificate. I look forward to the explanations you will give us on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u81	Minister, at the end of March, a pact of "strategic and commercial cooperation" was signed between Iran and China in Tehran. Designed for a period of 25 years, it is non-binding and therefore still has symbolic value at this stage. Few elements filtered on its content. However, this type of symbol still counts and it is easy to see a new illustration of Iran's growing tendency to look eastward. At the same time, and after an Iranian presidential election, the Vienna negotiations on the revival of the JCPOA are continuing. A sixth round of discussions ended on 20 June without major progress. On 19 May, European diplomat Enrique Mora, who participated in the debates, said "seeing the contours of what the final agreement might look like." More recently, US Secretary of State Antony Blinken preferred to insist on the "hundreds of sanctions" that would still apply in the event of a return to the agreement, including some of those imposed by the Trump administration. This is an assertion which can be assumed that it probably does not contribute to the serenity of the ongoing talks. In any event, the agreement between Beijing and Tehran shows how important the reactivation of the JCPOA is to the European Union and its Member States. Recall that it was following Washington's unilateral decision to break the JCPOA that Iran gave in 2018 a boost to the reorientation of its diplomacy towards the East, Ali Khamenei declaring that the West was not a trusted partner. Minister, what analysis do your services make of this agreement? What is its impact on the ongoing dialogue in the Austrian capital? How do you assess China's attitude in this context, which is also involved in these negotiations? In general, would you be able to make an inventory of these sites?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u82	Mr President, Mrs Samyn, on the negotiations with Iran on the JCPOA nuclear agreement, Belgium naturally fully supports the efforts of the EU and the E3 to reach a renewed agreement. Belgium also closely follows the negotiations in the Board of Governors of the International Atomic Energy Agency. The signals from Vienna, where the negotiations are being conducted, are cautiously positive. The latest sixth round of negotiations has not yet reached agreement. The period that is now approaching the inauguration of the new Iranian President at the beginning of August may be an opportunity to definitively reconfirm the nuclear agreement. Mr Ebrahim Raisi, who was elected, did not speak out against a new agreement during the election campaign. An agreement and the relief of US sanctions could have a positive impact on the Iranian economy. That could be a motivating factor for the newly elected president. We hope for reasonableness, because the internal economic agenda is of the utmost importance to the suffering Iranian people. In any event, we remain convinced that the JCPOA is the best guarantee that Iran will not be able to develop a nuclear weapon and that a nuclear arms race will be launched in the strategic region. In addition to the nuclear issue, Iran's regional policy must also be discussed, including Iran's involvement in Syria, Iraq and Yemen, but a solution to the nuclear issue seems to be a necessary first step to address the regional problem as a whole. In response to your question about the framework agreement on strategic cooperation signed between Iran and China, as I indicated, a few weeks ago on the occasion of my response to the parliamentary question by MP Annick Ponthier about the same agreement, China is now seeking to secure its strategic interests, including its energy supplies in the Middle East and the Gulf region. In this case, the aim is to set up a broad cooperation plan aimed at raising bilateral relations at the economic, political, strategic and cultural level over a period of 25 years to take the form of a strategic partnership. At the political level, the two countries intend to strengthen their dialogue, cooperation within regional and international organizations, as well as in the defence and fight against terrorism. In the economic field, China and Iran aim for enhanced cooperation in sectors such as energy, infrastructure, transport, telecommunications, science, technology and health. Iran continues to participate in the Chinese initiative on new silk roads. Furthermore, tourism and university cooperation are identified as areas in which both countries can cooperate. China is also convinced of the usefulness and necessity of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPoA). Iran seems to be looking for alternatives to its trade relations with Europe. It is therefore important that we continue our dialogue with Iran on the nuclear issue, but also on other aspects of bilateral relations between Iran and Europe, including trade. After all, Iran will continue to play an important role in the region in the near future, not only through its considerable energy supply, but also through its involvement in the various regional conflicts. Tehran stresses that the plan must be seen as a road map that, as such, does not establish a contractual link. According to Tehran, this is also the reason why the text of the agreement was not made public. Furthermore, China would not want to jeopardize its relations with other actors in the region and would like to maintain a balance in the Gulf, in view of its geostrategic and economic interests. In reply to your question about Iran's threat to the United States and the violation of human rights in Iran, I can tell you the following. The threats to Iranian state television against an ally such as the US are, of course, deeply regrettable, but their impact should not be overestimated either. Unfortunately, it is a rhetorical part of Iranian diplomacy, and it may not be the last time that the Iranian authorities are guilty of it. Some American political circles also speak harsh language about Iran. I believe that the impact of this rhetoric on the ongoing negotiations to revive the nuclear agreement with Iran, the JCPOA, will be limited. After all, both on the American side and on the Iranian side, there is a clear will and a clear interest to ensure that this agreement is once again respected by all parties. As regards the human rights situation in Iran, I can assure you that our country is following it closely. Behnam Mahjoubi's file was also known at my service. Belgium systematically participates in the interactive debate with the Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights in Iran during the Human Rights Council sessions. The most recent interactive debate was held last March. The special rapporteur has presented his latest report in which he expresses, inter alia, his concern about arbitrary detention, the conditions of detention and the rights and guarantees of a fair trial. Belgium gives priority to the enforcement of this mandate and our country supports its extension. During the last Universal Periodic Review of Iran in November 2019, Belgium made three recommendations, of which Iran took note. Our country also supports the UN General Assembly's annual resolution on the human rights situation in Iran. The most recent resolution was adopted by the third committee at the 75th session of the General Assembly last autumn. The International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, which has ratified Iran, also stipulates that all prisoners in custody must be treated with the necessary humanity and respect. For example, Article 7 provides that no one may be subjected to torture, cruel or inhumane treatment and that no one may undergo medical or scientific experiments without his consent. I can assure you that Belgium is addressing the human rights situation in Iran in all our bilateral contacts. The situation in Iranian prisons is also discussed. Finally, since 2011, the European Union has maintained restrictive measures in relation to serious human rights violations in Iran. These European sanctions will be reviewed annually and supplemented, if necessary, as happened earlier this year. These sanctions are therefore still in force, indicating that the situation remains worrying.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u83	Madam Secretary, you are now aware of our attitude towards Iran. However, we continue to question the attitude of the European Union and Belgium to Iran in terms of diplomatic openness. Any relationship, whether diplomatic, political or economic, Iran remains a country that poses threats to Western countries. A country that holds people for no reason, where there is no respect for human rights. It is a country that puts critical votes in prison without pardon or trial, such as the prisoner of conscience Behnam Mahjoubi. He died because the regime didn't provide him with the right medical care. With regard to the nuclear deal, you speak of "carefully positive," but I still hold my heart for the new President Ebrahim Raisi. During his election campaign, he probably didn't decide on the nuclear deal. In the past he did and he criticized it very strongly. What is even more worrying is that Ebrahim Raisi, who bears a great responsibility for the 1988 mass executions against political dissidents and prisoners in Iran, is now in charge of that country. That is worrying for the future of the Iranian people.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u84	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. From a geostrategic point of view, I believe, on the one hand, that these negotiations which affect the JCPoA and, on the other hand, that this rapprochement, this change in Tehran's doctrine which is increasingly looking eastward, indicate that we are perhaps at a turning point and ready to witness a potential reconfiguration of alliances in the region. Indeed, as you said, Iran's interest in China is that Iran is an important step in the silk road that Beijing wants to rebuild. China's interest in Tehran is that it is being strangled by economic sanctions that stifle it, Iran has no choice but to find other partners in the East. Little is known about the content of this cooperation agreement, but some elements are circulating. We're talking about $400 billion in Chinese investments over 25 years. We are talking about 5,000 Chinese soldiers on Iranian territory to protect a whole series of investments that would be made. I still have the impression that the closer Iran gets to China, the more harmful or dangerous it will be for the already very precarious balance of the region. We cannot hope that one thing is that the negotiations on the nuclear framework (the JCPoA) can lead to a balanced agreement that is accepted by everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u85	Madam Secretary, in 2017 I was in Manchester at the party congress of the British Conservatives and then Theresa May was still prime minister. She had a huge cough shower there and I had to think about it when you had a bit of trouble with your voice. At that party congress, Theresa May had just received her C4 from a comedian who had invaded and fell down a piece of decor shortly afterwards. The image was very clear: the Brexit will be a disaster. That has proved to be a reality, and it is becoming more absurd by the minute. There have recently been discussions on a number of fishing grounds. The French want to fish around the Channel Islands and there was discussion about this, on which the British decided to send part of their navy there. Has that been the subject of discussion with your colleagues at the European Assembly? Does that possibly have consequences for our fishermen? I should hope not. That the Brexit doesn't go ideal, we've all seen it, but there are limits to the reasonable.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u86	Madam Deputy Prime Minister, as has been said, since the effective exit of the United Kingdom from the European Union, major restrictions have been imposed by the British on European fishermen's access to the British territorial areas. This may concern our Belgian fishermen, but since we are also European citizens, it actually concerns fishermen from all over the Atlantic coast. You certainly don't know that, but part of my life is very related to the Norman Cotentin since my father has been living there for 20 years now. Besides, this morning you were discussing tourist tips in our beautiful Ardennes, talking about Daverdisse and Redu. I really recommend the Cotentin. There, hundreds of fishermen live a whole economy and a region by their fishing which is more traditional than industrial, sometimes harmful to fish stocks and to the seabed. Since Brexit, these fishermen have been amputated from a very large fishing area since entire coastal miles at the level of the Anglo-Norman Islands are now prohibited. As has been said, incidents occurred in early May, when French and British patrol boats were dispatched to the Islands of Jersey following a demonstration by French trawlers. Madam Minister, are you aware of incidents involving Belgian boats that have occurred in recent weeks, also linked to the new restrictions imposed by the British? If so, what are these incidents? Do you think that these restrictions decided by the British are in line with the withdrawal agreement negotiated with the European Union? Finally, what is the Belgian position in this case? What initiatives have been taken to defend the rights of Belgian fishermen and European coastal fishermen in general?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u87	Thank you, Mr. Moutquin, for your question. After Daverdisse, the Cotentin. We'll see at the end of this question-and-answer marathon where we can still go. Don't hesitate! We'll draw up a list!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u88	I'm sure we're traveling a lot with Mr. Moutquin.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u89	As you know, the fishing vessels are flying the Belgian flag, but the sector falls under the exclusive competence of the Flemish Region. For fishing in the exclusive economic zone, UK licences have been issued to fishing vessels in the Member States of the European Union, without major problems. However, for fishing in their territorial waters, the UK authorities require that the fishing vessels' applications be accompanied by proof that they were already fishing in those waters before 1 January 2021. This concerns both access to territorial waters around the Anglo-Norman Islands and around the British Islands. The first access was a problem only for French fishermen. The second access also poses a problem for a few Belgian fishing vessels which, for various administrative reasons, find it difficult to prove that they fished there before 1 January. This case is followed by the Flemish Region, through the Belgian Permanent Representation to the EU, to the European Commission, which brings together the follow-up of the issue for the EU Member States and succeeds it with the United Kingdom. This indeed led several weeks ago to a protest campaign by French fishermen around the Channel Islands. This led British Navy ships to set course for those islands to maintain public order in those waters. As far as I know, there have been no incidents involving Belgian fishing vessels. These protests have not led to military action and have not had an impact on the proper functioning of NATO. The possible economic repercussions of these administrative difficulties are real for the companies concerned. That is precisely why the competent authorities of our country are taking this issue to heart. However, these problems do not seem to lead to wider economic tensions for Belgium or for the European Union. The services of the FPS Foreign Affairs are in contact with the competent public services of the Flemish Region on these issues. Any diplomatic initiative must be taken at the request of the Flemish Region and in consultation with it if it has exclusive competence in this field.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u90	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. The most important thing in this regard is that the conflict has not had an impact on our fishing industry.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u91	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer and for your careful follow-up. Everything's gonna come back, it looks like. Once there were cod wars between Iceland and the United Kingdom, in 1958, 1972 and 1975. Even then, naval ships were deployed and even a dead man was killed. Hopefully that won't come back.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u92	Mr Moutquin, you will have noticed that the minister, even when she speaks of the Cotentin, does not give Normand an answer, and that is so much better!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u93	Mr. President, I'm going to turn myself into a travel agency. I suggest you go to Omonville-la-Rogue, it is a splendid small village in the Cotentin where many sinners live. Minister, thank you very much for your full answer. Unfortunately, I do not have the opportunity to ask the Flemish Government a question, but I will encourage my colleagues in Groen to do so. I think we are talking about defending our fishermen, for sure, but also about defending a much more family-friendly and respectful fishing model. The latter will suffer, since it is not competitive, from restrictions in the Cotentin fishing areas. I think that will also be the case elsewhere on the Atlantic coast. I believe that this should also make us think about defending this model. Finally, these are also our European values.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u94	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Universal Periodic Review (UPR) dialogue did indeed take place on 5 May: 119 Member States of the United Nations participated and made a total of 308 recommendations to our country. As has already been mentioned in our exchanges of views in the presence of the Director of the FPS Foreign Affairs department in this committee on 25 May 2021, Belgium immediately accepted 218 recommendations. It also decided not to accept 21. These initial indications followed a consultation on 6 May 2021 with the representatives of all the Belgian authorities concerned, federal and federated. Belgium requested a period of reflection for 69 recommendations to be considered by all competent bodies within the bodies envisaged for this purpose. For the majority of them, we are moving towards acceptance except for some which are contrary to the Constitution, Belgian legislation, such as the one relating to euthanasia. Among the 218 recommendations accepted from the day after, the recommendations of Albania and Malaysia for civil society collaboration are indeed included. We accepted them because this dialogue exists upstream and downstream of the Universal Periodic Review and also mid-term between two UPRs. But it goes without saying that such a dialogue exists outside this exercise and that my services are in regular, almost permanent contact with civil society organisations. I am convinced that the same applies to the various other ministers responsible for this matter. A debriefing took place on 11 June with all the stakeholders (civil society, independent public institutions, human rights) who were thus able to be heard by the competent bodies. Indeed, a number of recommendations had already been made in the previous two universal periodic reviews of Belgium, such as the ratification of the Optional Protocol to the United Nations Convention against Torture and the development of a national plan against racism. In both cases, the competent authority is trying to find solutions and we have therefore accepted these recommendations. As I said when I spoke on behalf of our country during the dialogue, Belgium is a federal state. The protection of human rights is thus ensured by different levels of power. Both the Belgian national report and the dialogue are the result of close cooperation between the various Belgian bodies, namely the Federal Government, the Communities and the Regions. Follow-up of recommendations will also require a joint effort. The Group of Experts on National Minorities has been mandated to define the concept of a national minority in the Belgian institutional context. Following consultations held in 2019 between the Group of Experts on National Minorities and Council of Europe experts, it has become apparent that the Advisory Committee of the Framework Convention, which is responsible for monitoring compliance by the States parties to the Framework Convention, is already using in practice a definition of the concept of national minority. It is therefore not assumed that a definition that would be agreed at Belgian level will be really taken into account by the Council of Europe bodies if our country were to become a State party to it. The question of a change of approach was therefore raised. Rather than focusing on the search for a material definition of the concept of national minority, the group is now discussing the possibility of starting from the definition used in Council of Europe practice and to see what reservations should, on this basis, be formulated in order to meet the objective of the declaration formulated by Belgium when signing the Convention. As a reminder, this declaration provides that the application of the Framework Convention should not prejudice our constitutional principles and our laws relating to the use of languages.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u95	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. It is really time, in my view, for this framework convention on national minorities to be ratified. I would remind you that it was signed by Belgium twenty years ago on 31 July. The ratification of a convention after such a deadline is a record. It is really time for Belgium to honour its place as a founding member of the Council of Europe. It has been pointed out, among other things, by a confederal country such as Switzerland, which asks it to ratify this framework convention. I therefore hope that progress will be made towards ratification as soon as possible. Indeed, this situation, which has taken us too long, dishonours us in terms of human rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u96	Minister, thank you for your answers. The question of the follow-up to the recommendations made by individual States to Belgium during its universal periodic review was a real necessity, since it was each time found that the vast majority of the recommendations made on that occasion were the same. With regard to the ratification of the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities, like my colleague Mr Dallemagne, I believe that this situation has lasted too long. We are too much behind the work of the working group on its definition. There was also the need to establish a national plan of action to combat racism or to ratify OPCAT with the establishment of a national preventive mechanism for all places of deprivation of liberty. Most of these recommendations have been made for years, which raises the question of their good follow-up by our country and, in order to ensure it, the best way to do so is to involve civil society fully. You seem to say that this is self-evident and that is why these recommendations have been accepted since dialogue with civil society would already exist upstream. But it must be noted that, in fact, not all the associations concerned are on the same footing, are not coordinated with the same consistency and regularity. I really urge you, Minister, to ensure that these recommendations are fully implemented in practice.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u97	Questions No 55017469C, No 55017896C and No 55018603C by Mr Steven De Vuyst are postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u98	Minister, on 13 May, Armenian leader Nikol Pachinian announced the rape of the Armenian border by Azerbaijani soldiers. Azerbaijan's troops reportedly advanced three kilometres within the Armenian borders in the south of the country. A few days later, we learned that six Armenian soldiers had been captured by Baku troops. This happened a few days after an Armenian soldier was killed in a clash with Azerbaijani soldiers. The situation has remained precarious since last November's ceasefire agreement. This renewed tension between the two sides is worrying. It is essential to use all possible diplomatic means and to avoid further burning in the region. On 27 May, our Parliament adopted a resolution on the situation calling for the immediate withdrawal of troops from Baku, for the release of Armenian military and civilian prisoners still detained. Minister, what information do you have about the Azerbaijani incursion into Armenian territory last May? What information do you have about the six soldiers captured at the end of May and their fate? What information do you have about Armenian civilians and military personnel still detained in Azerbaijan? We were learning a few days ago about the release of 15 of them. Can you tell us more?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u99	Madam Minister, I agree with Mr De Maegd's questions. Together we have drawn up a resolution calling for the release of the Armenian prisoners of war. We do not know exactly how many people are still in prison and whether they were captured before or after the ceasefire. That doesn't make any difference. They are not terrorists as Azerbaijan claims. It's also about family members and not just military. In our resolution, we also ask the government to raise the issue of Azerbaijan in the bilateral dialogue with that country. Another important aspect of the resolution is to ensure the Red Cross' access to prisoners. We also call for continued efforts to achieve a lasting political settlement of the conflict under the auspices of the Minsk Group. Finally, what is the state of play regarding Azerbaijan's forces on Armenian territory?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u100	At the international level, bilateral and multilateral contacts continue with the co-chairs of the Minsk Group. Armenia-Azerbaijan-Russia trilateral contacts have been established by Moscow. In the face of this diplomatic activity, progress on the ground has been limited in recent months. There is no consensus between Armenia and Azerbaijan on how to access Nagorny Karabakh for a field visit by the Co-Chairs of the Minsk Group and a visit by United Nations specialized agencies. The first would provide an opportunity to realize on the ground the political, security and humanitarian complexity of the situation and to revive dialogue among the protagonists. The second would provide an overview of the specific humanitarian needs and elements necessary for the reconstruction of Nagorny Karabakh and its surrounding districts. It should also be noted that the International Committee of the Red Cross and Russia have provided much of the basic humanitarian needs in Karabakh since the end of hostilities. On 5 May, the Co-Chairs of the Minsk Group, through a joint statement, welcomed the release of three Armenian prisoners and called on both sides to complete the process of exchange of prisoners while, in the meantime, ensuring their humane treatment. Through this joint statement, the Co-Chairs of the Minsk Group recalled, in addition to the dismissal of the prisoners, the central elements of their statement of 13 April, namely the communication of any information that could assist in mine clearance, the lifting of restrictions on access to Nagorny Karabakh, the protection and preservation of cultural and religious heritage and the establishment of measures that could foster links between the citizens of the two communities. They reiterated their readiness to contribute to facilitating dialogue between the Armenian and Azerbaijani sides. They reiterated their requests on 28 May, in a context of renewed tensions along the Armenian-Azerbaijan border. Since our last meeting, approximately 18 Armenian prisoners have been returned to Armenia, including 15 on 12 June, in exchange for military maps showing the locations of minefields built by the Armenian army in the Agdam region, which were returned to Azerbaijan at the end of the hostilities. On the other hand, several Armenian soldiers were arrested by the Azerbaijani army at the end of May. Baku claims that they have been apprehended on Azerbaijani territory and have been accused of sabotage, which Jerevan refutes. In my previous intervention on 27 April and on the basis of the Azerbaijani information at my disposal, I reported that at least 62 Armenians were still being held in the Azerbaijani prisons. The Armenian authorities estimate that at least 250 Armenian soldiers and civilians are still missing, possibly 81 of whom are still being held in prison. The search for and identification of the remains is still ongoing. A judicial investigation has been initiated to determine the person responsible for what has been described as gross criminal negligence in the management of the remains. It cannot be ruled out that these Armenian soldiers who were killed during fighting are on the Armenian lists of persons who might be imprisoned in Azerbaijan. It is therefore still difficult to provide precise information on the number of Armenian prisoners still held in Azerbaijani prisons. However, regardless of the exact number of Armenian prisoners in Azerbaijan, it is imperative that they be released as soon as possible, as requested by the Minsk Group. During contacts with Azerbaijani representatives, Belgium has always called for the return of all Armenian prisoners. On 10 June last I had the opportunity to speak with the chairman of the International Committee of the Red Cross, or the International Red Cross Committee, Mr Peter Maurer, about the situation in Nagorno-Karabakh and the prisoners. During that meeting, I reiterated that Belgium supports the steps taken by the ICRC for the prisoners. However, we know that each of the 62 Armenian soldiers held in the Azerbaijani prison has been visited by ICRC officials and has received permission to send a video message to family. On 4 May 2021, the Azerbaijani authorities announced the release of three Armenian prisoners and their return to Jerevan. However, on 27 May 2021, six Armenian soldiers were arrested by the Azerbaijani army along the Armenian-Azerbaijan border. The versions of the facts differ. According to Jerevan, these soldiers were on Armenian territory, while Baku claims they were on Azerbaijani territory. Finally, on Saturday 13 June 2021, a trade took place between Baku and Jerevan, facilitated by the United States and Georgia. Fifteen Armenian prisoners were exchanged against the maps of the minefields that the Armenians had laid along the old front line in the Agdam region. This exchange brings the number of Armenian prisoners released by Baku since the cease-fire of 10 November 2020 to 88. As a result of this latter development, according to Baku, there would still be 50 Armenian prisoners in Azerbaijani prisons. Armenia, for its part, insists that the number of Armenian prisoners is much higher than 50. In his contact with Azerbaijani representatives, Belgium constantly advocates the return of all Armenian prisoners. I now turn to the problem of delimitation and demarcation of borders. Indeed, in recent weeks there has been a resurgence of gradual tension between Armenia and Azerbaijan. On 12 May, Azerbaijani armed forces – between 500 and 600 soldiers – positioned themselves in the Black Lake area. If Armenia accuses Azerbaijan of illegally crossing its border, it believes that it is on its own territory. However, according to the information currently available, no shots were fired. The same phenomenon would have occurred at two other locations along the southern border between the two countries. This underlines, as in other former Soviet republics, the numerous potential cross-border and border conflicts as well as the need for clear demarcation and demarcation of borders. In this case, the borders have been negotiated and established with impreciseness in the time of the former USSR, and since the end of the USSR, the border between the two countries has never been confirmed, let alone demarcated. Russia quickly established mediation for de-escalation and resolution of border disputes. On 19 May, as Moscow's consultations with Baku and Yerevan continued, Prime Minister Pachinian confirmed the preparation of a trilateral agreement on border disputes. This agreement, which has not yet been finalized, should provide for the establishment of a commission on the delimitation and demarcation of the Armenian-Azerbaijan border. As for the renewed tension along the border, it is real. The incidents of recent weeks have been the most serious since 9 November 2020, raising pressure, raising concerns and making the diplomatic process linked to the situation and the return of Nagorny Karabakh even more complicated. It is therefore important that Baku and Yerevan continue to exercise the utmost restraint along the border and that they commit themselves as soon as possible to an exercise aimed at delimiting the Armenian-Azerbaijan border. In these terms, both the Co-Chairs of the Minsk Group and the High Representative and Vice-President of the European Commission Josep Borrell spoke publicly in response to incidents along the border. I fully share this view. I have publicly expressed my concern about the development of the situation on the Armenian-Azerbaijan border. On 28 May, I called for the restraint and revival of a mechanism to delimit and demarcate the border. Unfortunately, the situation on the ground remains unchanged at the moment. In conclusion, it is worth recalling the parliamentary elections held in Armenia on 20 June. They were polarising but competitive and transparent, according to OSCE observers. Prime Minister Pachinian's party won 54% of the vote, which means that it again has a stable parliamentary majority for its government. This also means that there are prospects for stability. We can only hope that the leaders of both countries will choose the path of a form of Armenian-Azerbaijan normalization. Finally, I would like to talk about the European Union's action in the humanitarian field. Since the hostilities, nearly EUR 7 million has been allocated to Nagorno-Karabakh, through various budget headings. In addition, there are several direct contributions from Member States. On 17 May, despite tensions, the European Commission decided to release 10 million more. This allocation of additional resources reflects the European Union's desire to contribute to the sustainable and full stabilisation of the region and to the establishment of confidence and reconciliation measures between Armenia and Azerbaijan.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u101	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. In the last deadly war in Nagorny Karabakh, it is an euphemism to say that the Armenians were abandoned to their fate by the international community. I am thinking, in particular, of the limited activities and results of the Minsk Group. Since then, the numerous breaches of international conventions, including the Geneva Convention on Prisoners of War, have obviously been unacceptable. Minister, they are whole families who are in anguish and who are eagerly awaiting the return of their loved ones and of all prisoners. It is an entire country that legitimately expects respect for its territorial integrity. There can be no new war that has been unleashed, silent and vicious in the Azeri after the cease-fire agreement reached under the auspices of the international community. You mentioned the exchange of soldiers regarding the presence of mines in the region. You referred to the expected field visits of United Nations staff and the Minsk Group. He's used us to statements rather than actions. I hope, therefore, that these declarations of intent will be followed up. I thank you for continuing, as you have done for weeks in many rooms, to press Baku, both bilaterally and multilaterally, for the release of the 62 imprisoned Armenian prisoners, as well as the 81 captives who would be among the 250 missing persons, and to press for respect for the territorial integrity of Armenia. Only on these bases can a lasting agreement be reached on the future status of Nagorny Karabakh. I was pleased to hear that a new envelope of EUR 10 million should be released by the European Union in addition to that of EUR 7 million for the suffering inhabitants of Nagorny Karabakh. This will certainly bring a breath of oxygen to those people who are in a disastrous humanitarian situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u102	I cannot add much to Mr De Maegd's reply. The agreement reached with Jerevan at the end of November last year is an agreement reached with the knife on the throat, under the supervision of Russia, with Turkey supporting Azerbaijan in its back. It was an unbalanced agreement. It will continue to lead to additional tensions. One speaks of a frozen conflict, but it can easily thaw again. The absence of the exchange of all prisoners is an element leading to tension between the two countries. The fact that territorial integrity is also not respected is an additional element of tension. It is good that you are short-term in dealing bilaterally with Azerbaijan, but also with the Red Cross. You also continue to stress to the European Union that the agreement must be implemented, that the Minsk Group must remain active and that the necessary humanitarian measures must be taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u103	Debates of the European Parliament 55017670C by Mrs Van Bossuyt has been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u104	Madam Chair, I turned all my questions into written questions, apart from those that were attached. This is a communication that I transmitted this morning already.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u105	I am indeed aware of the recent acts of vandalism in the Chalcedonian church in Kovankaya in the province of Sirnak in eastern Turkey. I am also aware of the abduction of a couple from the same village in January 2020, where the woman was found dead in March 2020 and the man is still missing. I do not have information about the person or body responsible for those crimes. The official investigation is still ongoing and no offender could have been identified by the Turkish authorities. In these circumstances, of course, I do not wish to express or speculate on the responsibilities of the kidnapping of the couple, the murder of women, the continued disappearance of the husband or the acts of vandalism against the Chalcedonian church of Kovankaya. I understand the emotion and concern that these events have caused within the small Chalcedonian Catholic community in Turkey, as well as among the fellow believers and human rights organisations that support it around the world. The deterioration of human rights in Turkey, including the rights of religious minorities, is an element of serious concern for Belgium. This issue is closely followed by our posts in Ankara and Istanbul, as well as by my services in Brussels. Respect for human rights and the rights of minorities, including religious minorities, will continue to be raised in my bilateral talks with my Turkish counterpart, as well as at European and multilateral level.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u106	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. In any case, I am pleased that you will continue to address such matters at bilateral level. Unfortunately, however, it is a sad observation that in an increasing number of countries, mainly in the Arab world, Christian minority groups are seen as a threat. Too often and without any reason thousands of Christians are marked, intimidated, persecuted and, at worst, even killed for their faith. The number of reports from Turkey on violent violence, threats, intimidation and harassment by the Turkish authorities is increasing. That's terrifying, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u107	The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 55017946C by Mr Vandenput and Mr 55018156C and Mr 55018839C by Mrs Van Bossuyt. They're not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u108	Minister, since my last question, a number of new elements have emerged. The number of deaths and patients is still increasing dramatically in some countries. Some European countries have joined the group of countries calling for the lifting of patents - in particular Spain. The European Parliament also set itself up on Wednesday 21 May for the lifting of patents on vaccines against covid-19. In addition, following India's announcement in March - the largest manufacturer of covid vaccines - that it would no longer be able to provide the Covax initiative by the end of the year, WHO announced on 17 May that the target of 20% of the population vaccinated by the end of 2021 was at risk. Meanwhile, Forbes published a report (shared by Oxfam) which shows that, while the world is weakening and people are dying, the pandemic has made at least nine new billionaires who have amassed a net fortune of $19.3 billion, which would make it possible to vaccinate 1.3 times the total population of low-income countries, or 10 per cent of the world's population. Minister, my questions have been updated a little since I tabled them. How did the G20 position itself on May 21 on the lifting of patents on covid vaccines? Is the Belgian position in the European debate finally oriented towards the temporary lifting of patents? What position did Europe stand at the last WTO Summit? Now, of course, we know that. What is planned for next year's summit? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u109	Colleagues, thank you for your questions. As I have already mentioned in this House, access to medicines and vaccines for all is a real priority which the Belgian Government fully shares. This is an epidemiological and international solidarity issue in which the European Union is fully committed through initiatives such as VOCAX, for which the EU and the Member States have already invested EUR 2.2 billion, or as the European vaccine sharing mechanism, which aims to give 100 million doses by the end of the year. With regard to your first question, Ms. de Laveleye, on the World Health Summit under the auspices of the G20 on 21 May, the G20 confirmed the importance of cooperation between all public and private actors in order to increase the equitable availability of vaccine production tools and instruments and to improve their accessibility for all. The Rome Declaration of the Summit encourages the use of instruments such as voluntary licensing, the transfer of voluntary technology and know-how, and pact and pooling, through mutually agreed terms. These are just a few of the tracks set out in the Rome Declaration of this summit. With regard to your various questions on the position of the EU in the work of the G7 held in the United Kingdom from 11 to 13 June, I would like to refer you to the final declaration of the summit in which leaders committed themselves to supporting manufacturing in low-income countries and to participating constructively in WTO discussions on the role of intellectual property, in particular by working coherently within the framework of the TRIPS Agreement and public health. The G7 highlighted the positive impact that voluntary licensing and technology transfer on mutually agreed terms have already had on increasing global supply and also committed to exploring all options to ensure affordable and accessible covid-19 tools for the poorest countries, including non-profit production, phased and transparent pricing and sharing by manufacturers of part of production via VOCAX. Finally, regarding your question about the Council on trade-related aspects of intellectual property law, which took place in Geneva on 8 and 9 June, the EU presented its new proposal to secure the commitment of WTO members to a multilateral trade action plan to increase the production of vaccines against covid-19 and to ensure universal and equitable access to them. In this proposal, the European Union underlines the central role of the WTO in responding to the pandemic and urges other WTO members to agree on a set of commitments, including intellectual property rights. In concrete terms, the European Union calls on governments to ensure that vaccines and treatments against covid-19 and their components can cross borders freely. The aim here is to limit export restrictions and to keep supply chains open. Secondly, this proposal aims to encourage producers to increase their production while ensuring that countries most in need of vaccines receive them at an affordable price. This includes licensing agreements, sharing of expertise in differentiated prices, including priced sales to low-income countries, manufacturing, subcontracting and new investments in production facilities in developing countries. Third, it aims to facilitate the use of compulsory licences under the existing WTO Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights. The TRIPS agreement already provides for this flexibility, which is a legitimate tool in the context of the pandemic, which can be used quickly if necessary. The European Union therefore proposes concrete solutions in the short and medium term to ensure universal access at affordable prices. Mrs Rohonyi, in her resolution, the European Parliament calls on the European Union to adopt a constructive attitude and to participate actively in the negotiations within the TRIPS Council. This is also a priority for Belgium, which we stress systematically in our contacts with the Commission, which represents the Member States in these negotiations. In addition, the resolution also underlines the added value of the intellectual property rights system and its importance in the context of innovation and addresses existing flexibilities under TRIPS agreements, including compulsory licensing. The resolution also recognizes that the enlargement and encouragement of voluntary licensing agreements and voluntary transfers of technology and know-how are the best way to increase global vaccine production. In this respect, the approach proposed by the resolution is not very different from the overall approach presented by the Commission to the Council of the TRIPS Countries and which I have just listed for you the three main axes. You are also asking me about the position of the United States in this debate. It must be admitted that this is, to say the least, ambiguous. While the United States, under President Trump, had been resolutely negative with regard to the discussion on the lifting of intellectual property rights, President Biden's administration now seems more open to considering this possibility, which was publicly announced by the Trade Representative in early May. However, since that announcement, the position has not yet been clarified and no concrete text has been tabled by the United States in Geneva on this issue, unlike the European Union. It will therefore be necessary to wait until the actual start of the negotiations on the texts this week in Geneva for clarification of American intentions. Finally, I come to Belgium's position in all these discussions, and I can tell you that our country is committed to it with an open mind and takes very seriously the concerns raised by developing countries that have not yet had access to vaccines. We are advocating in European and international forums for pragmatic solutions that address today's problems, namely a bottleneck in production. This includes facilitating trade and transparency in distribution chains, reducing export restrictions, facilitating partnerships between licensees and producers, encouraging knowledge transfer, strengthening existing flexibilities and exploring ways to remove barriers to production. We pay particular attention to the work on these issues at the WTO. Let us hope that they will lead to the rapid achievement of results. The effectiveness and usefulness of any proposal to increase production and facilitate the distribution of vaccines in the field of intellectual property or any other field should be studied. This is precisely Belgium's position, both in Brussels and Geneva and in New York.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u110	Thank you, Minister, for your very good and long answer. First of all, I would like to welcome once again our government's commitment to the values of solidarity and effectiveness against the virus, because of course that is what we are talking about. I think it is always useful to stress, as you have done, all the steps already taken at European and Belgian level to facilitate access to the vaccine for all people on the planet, including in low-income countries. There is, of course, a small flat, but I would like to point out that the lifting of patents on vaccines was presented by several experts at the hearings that we have had in this Parliament as a step, which has its role, not in place of all the ones that you have presented, but it is an additional step that could further facilitate access to the vaccine. We continue to move forward. We have to give ourselves all the weapons, including this one. This is not at all in place of those that you have presented and which are obviously leads that need to be supported. They are complementary and the lifting of patents will facilitate as many people as possible access to the vaccine as soon as possible. I know that we share this concern to be as effective as possible in the fight against the virus. We continue to support you in an even more ambitious reflection. We will see how Belgium will make further progress on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u111	Minister, thank you for all your very detailed answers. Finally, I thank you for your commitment at European, international and national level, because it is true that the vaccine inequality we are seeing today is a lack of sense from a humanitarian point of view, but also from a health and economic point of view. Indeed, we all know that the end of the crisis will only be real if all the countries of the world benefit from vaccination, as quickly as possible, because we are now experiencing a real race against time in the face of the variants of the virus. I therefore hear your determination to move towards a response that is strong, but also pragmatic. This is really the right word to use in this context, which involves accompanying the possible lifting of patents for the transfer of skills, technology and training of local staff. I understand that at European Union level the position would have been clarified. I would like to raise a few doubts in this regard, although I am aware that we really need to go towards genuine consultation with all the other Member States of the European Union, because of the differences of opinion which exist within these States and which do not allow us to move forward or, at the very least, to have the same voice on this fundamental issue. Furthermore, the VOCAX mechanism has been quite criticized in the Committee on Health, following very interesting hearings on motions for resolutions on the lifting of patents. This is therefore another argument in favour of a strong position at European level, in order to support countries that have not yet been able to benefit, as they should have, from vaccination.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u112	Debates of the European Parliament 55018038C by Mrs Van Bossuyt is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u113	Mrs Jadin, I will not go back to the new putsch that took place in Mali, nor to the promises that have been made and that are not being respected. Like the international community as a whole, Belgium supports the regional organization, the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS), which has taken the initiative to condemn the coup and mediate. Belgium contributed to and supports the adoption of the EU Joint Declaration of 4 June. On this basis, diplomatic contacts took place in the Malian capital, Bamako. These events contribute to the erosion of the credibility and legitimacy of the Malian state, making alternative governance models proposed by the jihadists increasingly attractive to part of the population. This coup is another bad precedent in the region. It diverts attention from Mali's immediate priorities, such as security. These are the main reasons why Belgium and the international community strongly condemned this new episode. On the other hand, the weakening of the Malian State could lead to more violence and instability in the region. Therefore, while examining the modalities of its assistance, the international community should continue to support the Malians in their efforts to restore stability by deploying all appropriate diplomatic, military and development resources. The imposition of sanctions is an exceptional measure. There are individual sanctions, such as the travel ban, the freezing of the assets of certain persons, but also other measures, such as the adaptation of the modalities of the various cooperations (development or security). Although the European Council has mentioned this possibility, I note that, following the ECOWAS summit on 20 June, it is unlikely that very severe measures, such as sanctions, will be imposed in the short term. According to various testimonies, the health status of the former transitional president and his Prime Minister does not seem to be of concern. I regret that their freedoms remain hampered and reiterate the call of the international community as a whole to put an end to the restrictions imposed on them. Finally, this coup d'état did not have a major impact on the MINUSMA mission, whose mandate was to be reviewed this month by the United Nations Security Council Committee. The impact on Belgian MINUSMA soldiers was insignificant.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u114	Madam Minister, thank you for your answers to all the questions I asked, including on Operation MINUSMA, which I am also on the Defence Committee. We are, of course, concerned about so much instability and discrediting of the democratic institutions and mechanisms in place, but also about the rise of jihadism and fanatical Islamism in this region.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u115	Debates of the European Parliament 55018217C by Mr Moyaers has been converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u116	Madam President, Mrs Samyn, I am kept informed by the Belgian ambassador in Abuja. It regularly reports on the security challenges Nigeria faces, building on a wide and varied range of reliable sources, including reports from NGOs. It is clear that the Nigerian authorities must step up their efforts to combat poverty and to promote inter-ethnic and inter-religious dialogue. Strengthening the security of its citizens and developing a balanced agricultural policy on its territory are both essential. A solution can be found to the traditional and structural conflict between livestock farmers and farmers, as well as to the other conflicts that have occurred. Security developments in Nigeria are closely monitored by, inter alia, the specialised structures of the United Nations and also at European level. Belgium shares the concern of the international community about the increasing tensions in Nigerian society. It goes without saying that the management of these conflict dynamics, which also occur in large parts of West and Central Africa, is one of the themes addressed in the international European dialogue with and on Nigeria. In Abuja there are regular, inter alia at EU level, formal contacts with the Nigerian government. Citizens' security and respect for human rights are always high on the agenda. The services of the Foreign Affairs Office in Brussels will not fail to ask the new Nigerian ambassador in Brussels to explain the religious dimension of conflict dynamics in Nigerian society. The relevant European working groups regularly address the security situation in Nigeria. Several EU Member States and the EU have funding projects and programmes in Nigeria to promote peace and security there. A concrete result of this is the National Livestock Transformation Programme, which was approved in 2019. In the coming years, the EU and several Member States will continue to engage in Community and inter-religious dialogues and integrated economic development. For example, a modern and sustainable solution to the traditional conflict between shepherds and peasants will be sought, so that the religious beliefs of the various Nigerian population groups are no longer stirred up for political purposes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u117	Madam Minister, I was just talking about the violence against Christian minority groups in a number of countries. The figures on the persecution of Christians in Nigeria are hallucinating. The report that was reported to have revealed that Islamic jihadists murdered at least 1,470 Christians in the first four months (...). I hope that such cases of persecution of Christians, wherever they are in the world, will continue to be raised at international level.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u118	Debates of the European Parliament 55018279C and 55018395C by Mrs Bossuyt were postponed. Debates of the European Parliament 55018398C by Mrs Jadin, 55018446C by Mr De Vuyst and 55018917C by Mr Cogolati shall be converted into written questions. Debates of the European Parliament 55018448C by Mr De Vuyst was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u119	I refer to the question that has been put.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u120	I find it difficult to answer your question about the espionage by the Sudanese Consul on Dutch territory, as the issue falls within the competence of the Justice Department. As regards your question about the return and follow-up of Sudanese people expelled from Belgium, that is the competence of the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration. Finally, I can confirm that, since the fall of Omar al-Bashir's regime in 2019, changes have taken place in the Sudanese diplomatic corps. On 29 September 2020, the new ambassador of the Republic of Sudan handed over his credentials to King Filip. Sorry, Mr Segers, for the one time you come here to ask a question: it was not done intentionally, but I must respect the powers of my colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u121	Madam Secretary, I will turn to your colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u122	I refer to my question and I look forward to the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u123	Mrs Samyn, the increase in diplomatic contacts between Greece and Turkey since the beginning of the year is a positive development, which should be welcomed. Turkey has stopped its unilateral action in the Eastern Mediterranean and weakened its aggressive rhetoric towards the EU and some of its Member States. This change of attitude has enabled the EU to reconsider a positive agenda for our relations with Turkey. The development review and the way in which the EU should respond to it were agenda items for the European Council meeting on 24 and 25 June. The European Council reiterates the EU's readiness to strengthen cooperation with Turkey in a phased, proportionate and reversible manner in a number of areas of common interest, such as migration, public health, climate and counter-terrorism. Of course, Belgium welcomes the just mentioned position as a positive development, but remains very vigilant, especially as regards the sustainability of the changed Turkish attitude in the eastern Mediterranean. Turkey was not on the agenda of the NATO summit in Brussels on 14 June. That also makes sense, since Turkey, as a NATO member, sits around the table. I would like to point out that I travelled to Greece last week for a two-day visit. The issue of the eastern Mediterranean and the EU's relations with Turkey have been addressed. The contacts between Greece and Turkey, to which you refer in your question, take place both technically and politically. Since February 2021, they have been resumed after an interruption of more than four years. Discussions mainly concern the demarcation of maritime borders between the two countries. In addition, regular meetings are now taking place between the two Ministries of Defence, the main item on the agenda being the identification of confidence-building measures. The meeting between the Deputy Ministers for Foreign Affairs, to which you refer in your question, took place on 19 May in Kavala and was intended to revitalise cooperation between the two countries in the areas of tourism, economic and trade. Contacts between Turkey and Greece have also increased at political level, as demonstrated by the visit to Athens on 31 May by Mr Çavuşoğlu, the Turkish Foreign Minister, and the meeting scheduled for Brussels in the margins of the NATO summit between President Erdogan and Prime Minister Mitsotakis. With regard to Turkey's candidacy for the European Union, there is nothing new to report. This issue is completely unrelated to the possible implementation of a positive agenda with Turkey. I would remind you that the accession negotiations with Turkey are currently de facto frozen. In order to remove the blocking of negotiations, a substantial and lasting improvement in the rule of law and respect for human rights in Turkey is needed, which is not the case in the circumstances.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u124	Madam Secretary, thank you for your very comprehensive answer. I will read your answer carefully and ask any additional questions later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u125	Madam President, things are moving so fast. I have to find out what question we have come up with.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u126	Minister, I would point out that Question No 55018542C by Mrs Kattrin Jadin is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u127	In response to your question on the prohibition of autonomous lethal weapons systems, the government agreement states that our country "will take the initiative to arrive at a regulatory framework on fully autonomous weapons systems with a view to an international ban". From an ethical point of view, the decision of life or death entirely entrusted to machines beyond any form of human supervision is simply unacceptable. From a legal point of view, the application of international humanitarian law governing armed conflicts requires that the use of a weapon may be linked to a human responsibility. I can inform you that Belgium is currently chairing the group of governmental experts on this subject within the CCW. This group of experts has already done substantial work to identify the basic principles of a future regulatory framework. The Belgian Chairmanship of the Expert Group hopes that, despite the pandemic, discussions can be resumed very soon in order to deepen the significant progress achieved over the past two years, in particular on the content of this regulatory framework. A meeting of the expert group is scheduled for the end of this month. The expert group should submit a report containing recommendations on the regulatory framework to the Chair of the CCAC Review Conference scheduled for late 2021. We must leave the opportunity for our presidency to conduct discussions without external pressure that could negatively impact the significant progress expected in the working group. At European level, it was decided to contribute to the current debate through a proposal for a recommendation to the Belgian Presidency of the Group of Experts. Negotiations are under way on what this recommendation should contain and, at NATO level, a process of reflection is under way on new technologies. Issues related to autonomous weapons will not be addressed until 2022. The SPF Foreign Affairs has no knowledge of Belgian companies that would be active in the development of autonomous lethal weapons systems. With regard to the development of such weapons, a reflection is under way within the group of experts to ensure respect for international humanitarian law and a form of human control throughout the life cycle of autonomous lethal weapons systems.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u128	Minister, thank you for your answers. This allows us to take stock of the principles that we are defending with regard to these killer robots. We look forward to the results of this group of experts in order to be able to rapidly upgrade our knowledge in this area. These issues will have to be reworked in this committee or in the Defence Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u129	Question No 55019323C by Mrs Kattrin Jadin is transformed into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr De Vuyst's 55018602C has been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u130	Madam President, I refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u131	Unfortunately, the problem of so-called murder is one of the numerous forms of violence facing South Africa. Independent research shows that its causes are of different nature and cannot be reduced to a matter of race or colour. Of course, I believe that this violence, like other forms of violence, should be put to an end. Personal security is one of the basic rights of every citizen. Given the very high level of violence, this is a huge challenge for the South African government. I believe that South African democracy and the rule of law allow citizens to seek to safeguard this basic right. Our Embassy in Pretoria is in regular contact with the authorities in South Africa and continues to express its concern for the general increase in crime. The South African Government assures us that tackling violent crime is a priority and that in the fight against criminal activity everyone is treated equally. There are also contacts in Brussels. The Director of Africa of the FPS Foreign Affairs met twice with the new South African Ambassador to prepare the state of play on important bilateral dossiers and the issue of human rights was discussed. In addition, Belgium is continuing to promote and maintain close contacts with other countries in relevant fora, such as in Geneva at the UN Human Rights Commission. Belgium is also very active at international and multilateral level in the fight against racism and discrimination.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u132	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. The platter attack and massacre in South Africa remains terrible. White farmers, their families and often their employees, black or white, are tortured, raped and often murdered in the most horrible and barbaric way. Less than 35,000 commercial farmers in South Africa currently provide food for a population of 60 million people. Instead of offering them as much protection as possible, the government really leaves these farmers to their fate and not only must they endure the droughts and the like, but they must also constantly ensure their own safety because the police cannot or will not respond to the attacks. It is high time for the European Union, Belgium and enlargement to stop looking away from the international community and for the South African Government to exercise its responsibilities to relieve South African society of these unacceptable acts of violence.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u133	Debates of the European Parliament 55018665C by Mrs Ponthier was converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament 55018768C by Mr De Maegd is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u134	Minister, the Prime Minister's office has confirmed that a consular mission has taken place in recent weeks to prepare for the repatriation on a case-by-case basis, decided in March by the CNS and confirmed by the government, of several children of Belgian jihadists as well as the possible repatriation of some of their mothers. In this context, the development of Denmark's position can prompt us to reflect. As he stood out for his uncompromising attitude, the Danish government finally announced on 18 May that it would ensure that three wives and their fourteen children would return home. The former would be arrested upon arrival and the latter would be taken over and subjected to a deradicalization programme. The trigger for this change of course was a report by the intelligence services responsible for balancing the risk of leaving these individuals in Syria with the threat that their return might represent, whether controlled or not. The conclusions seem to have validated the second option as the least threatening since the document points out "the long-term, and more serious, threat that women and their children will represent, if they return uncontrolledly, more radicalized, and with weapons training". However, the authors also note a recent increase in attempts to escape from the camps. In parallel to this work, a task force composed of representatives of various ministries also found that the evacuation of children alone was not yet possible, as mothers refused it and the local authorities demanded the approval of the latter. Minister, has the Danish study been mentioned at European level? Did you get to know about it? How do you analyse the evolution of Danish positioning? Are these elements such as to clarify the modalities of the repatriation procedure put in place by Belgium or to inform the authorities on this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u135	As for your questions about FTF and children, I can tell you the following. According to the figures from my services, there are currently 20 women and 27 children living in the camps of Northeast Syria who would have a link with Belgium. My services do not have information about persons with a Belgian link who would be outside these camps in the area. As you know, on 3 March, the National Security Council decided on a new approach to the repatriation of children and possibly their FTF mothers, according to strict criteria. This decision was explained in plenary session on March 4 by the Prime Minister. I have recently answered several questions in the Committee on External Relations on 27 April. I can confirm that pursuant to the decision of the National Security Council, a mission visited north-eastern Syria, as the Prime Minister mentioned in plenary on Thursday, 10 June. The Minister of Justice has also answered some questions in this regard. I can only repeat, therefore, that this fact-finding mission has gathered information that could serve as a basis for individual decisions in this regard. In the name of the security of everyone and the privacy of the people concerned, I am not in a position to tell you more about this at this time. In addition, I can confirm that our country maintains contacts with partner countries, including neighbouring countries, in which lessons are exchanged. Finally, Mr De Roover, I can confirm that the position of the local de facto authority in North-East Syria is unchanged. They are asking for their own nationals to be repatriated without conditions. Separation of mothers and children is only accepted in humanitarian cases. As in other parts of Syria, our country is trying to contribute to improving the humanitarian situation of the people on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u136	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer, which brings little really new information. We still see several countries starting to move. I have cited the example of Denmark, but I am thinking more generally of some countries that maintained a rather firm position on the issue of repatriation. I remember the auditions we held a year and a half ago. I'm talking under the control of the president. At the time, both the director of the OCAM and Attorney General Van Leeuw pleaded for repatriation – not for humanitarian or similar reasons, but precisely in the name of security. The argument, which I put forward in my question, was that in order to guarantee security, it is better to control these dangerous individuals on our own soil than to leave them in nature, in an increasingly inconvenient context which is that of the camps controlled by the Kurds. Of course, we remain attentive to this question, without dogmatism or ideology, because the stakes are not of this nature, but concern first and foremost the security and also the justice that must be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u137	Madam Minister, you have not been able to answer all the questions, perhaps you have not been able to answer them. In any case, I understand that you are drawing a strict line here, which is, of course, entirely justified. Our group believes that we should make a distinction here between mothers and children. It is difficult to blame newborns or very young children for their descent, that goes without saying. But the mothers have committed acts and made choices that should have consequences. I refer to the line drawn, Madam Minister, in the Michael administration, which made that distinction clear. We urge you to follow the same line. We are following up on this problem further, and we would like to be within the context of the policy that was set out when we were in the government together.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u138	Mrs Van Bossuyt is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u139	Madam President, I have taken note of the American sanction in the framework of their global Magnitsky sanctions programme against Bulgarian oligarchs and companies. I do not have any information on the possible activity in Belgium of the persons and companies concerned. You will understand, however, that it is not for me to comment on the reasons invoked by the United States to impose this sanction. This sanction should be seen in the general context of the problem of corruption in Bulgaria. At the European level, this problem is being addressed in a structural manner. However, it is a complex problem and it will take some time to make visible progress in combating this phenomenon. Since its accession to the EU, the Member State has been subject to strict supervision, in particular in the field of the fight against corruption through the Cooperation and Review Mechanism. This instrument is used by the Commission services to carry out a half-yearly analysis of the situation in Bulgaria and to publish a written report once a year, accompanied by specific recommendations. In 2020, the Committee decided not to report in writing on Bulgaria, given the establishment of the annual report on the rule of law. The annual monitoring of the rule of law, which also includes an anti-corruption component, now plays this role. The 2021 annual report is expected in July. Belgium is a strong supporter of the new rule of law monitoring mechanism. We have also explicitly advocated, together with other Member States, the continuation of the formal annual reporting on Bulgaria in the framework of the cooperation and review mechanism, as long as the national situation so requires. Therefore, Bulgaria was questioned during the annual dialogue on the rule of law in the General Affairs Council of 10 November 2020 on its anti-corruption intentions in the context of the Commission's findings in its annual report on the rule of law. A detailed reform agenda has been submitted to the Member States and the Commission, which is currently being implemented and closely monitored by the Commission services.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u140	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u141	Questions No 55018787C by Mrs Van Bossuyt and No 55018825C by Mrs Jadin are postponed. Question No 55018788C by Mrs Van Bossuyt is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u142	Madam President, Madam Minister, the suspicions of Riad Salamé, the Governor of the Bank of Lebanon, are taking on an increasingly international dimension. In France, the AFP has learned that the National Financial Prosecutor's Office (PNF) has opened a preliminary investigation against him for association of criminals and organized money laundering, a follow-up to two complaints, one lodged in April by the Swiss Accountability Foundation, the other by the French organization Sherpa, which specialized in the protection and defence of populations victims of economic crimes, and a collective of Lebanese savers. In Switzerland, he was concerned about possible misappropriation of funds. His assets are frozen there. Finally, in the United Kingdom too, complaints are registered. Mr. Salamé must not be the tree that hides the forest. Other figures take advantage of the systemic and widespread corruption that has infiltrated all levels of the Lebanese government, whether political, economic or legal. Every day that passes brings a new illustration of this situation. On 27 May, for example, a lawyer, Mr. Alleik, a member of the NGO Mouttahidoun, was arrested on charges against Riad Salamé in Lebanon. Almost at the same time, a number of young people were reportedly deprived of their liberty for having planted a banner criticizing Prosecutor Oueidate regularly accused of obstructing the fight against corruption. I would add that in August 2020, a report published by the Organized Crime and Corruption Reporting Project – a consortium of investigative journalists – and Daraj pointed to the tens of millions of dollars invested by important Lebanese officials, including Salamé, in the United Kingdom, Germany and at home in Belgium. Madam Minister, in the face of Lebanon's woes, targeted sanctions seem indispensable to us. In any case, action must be taken. At the last meeting of this committee, you told me that Belgium would actively participate in the reflection on this subject at European level on the basis, in particular, of an option document of the European External Action Service (EEAS). Minister, what is your response to these new elements? What is the status of the analysis at the Foreign Affairs Council? As regards possible measures and sanctions to be taken, what possibilities exist at Belgian and/or European level for freezing assets held by Lebanese politically exposed persons?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u143	Madam President, Mr Ben Achour, we are of course also informed via the press of the allegations and investigations carried out by Switzerland and France against the governor of the National Bank of Lebanon, Mr Riad Salamé, and of the precarious situation of the Lebanese who have not been able to dispose of all their money for some time. We must, of course, wait for the results of these investigations. I also share your view that the international community must at the same time ensure that Mr. Salamé is not the tree that hides the forest. Belgium has always been and will always be engaged in the fight against impunity. Our diplomatic post is also closely following developments in this regard. I will ask him to continue to follow all developments in this matter. At EU level, the situation in Lebanon was discussed in the Foreign Affairs Council in March and April. The Council recognizes the seriousness of the situation and agrees on the need to exert pressure on the Lebanese political class in order to unblock the political situation and implement a programme of reforms. In the relevant working group within the Council, an options document, to which you referred, was discussed to see what levers the European Union can use. The options put forward by the EEAS are both stimulating and dissuasive. You are asking me about the possibilities that exist in terms of sanctions. The European Union already has two sanctions regimes on Lebanon, but these are based on old UN sanctions for specific cases and are not applicable to the current situation. Transversal sanctions regimes, such as the new regime against serious human rights violations, also do not a priori appear to be adequate instruments. The creation of a new ad hoc sanctions regime for Lebanon, if the Council so decides, would be an option. They will require a sound legal basis. Traditionally, the measures envisaged are an asset freeze, a ban on making economic resources available and a travel ban. Such sanctions can only be effective when adopted at European level. It is important for Belgium that the approach favoured by the Union should be able to respond to the challenges facing the Lebanese people today and to overcome the political impasse with a full-fledged government to implement the necessary reforms.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u144	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. We are, it seems, on the same wavelength. I deeply believe that asking Lebanon for political reforms, for a full-fledged government, etc. is important. But we have even more direct means of action that we can control. I am thinking here of the assets of politically exposed people in Belgium, France, Luxembourg and the United Kingdom, even though, for the latter, things are a little different since they have emerged from the European Union. The journal Alternatives Économiques published a survey which estimated the value of Riad Salamé's and his relatives' real estate in France at 50 million euros, 40 of which were acquired after he came to head of the Bank of Lebanon in 1993. Alternatives Économiques also says that the prosecutor's investigation determines that most of Riad Salamé's assets in France were purchased in the 16th arrondissement, within a radius of 1 km2, during the same period, in cash or through mortgage loans from two banks, HSBC and Société Générale. So we have the means to make the light, the transparency. I am also going to question tomorrow the Finance Minister on the same subject, namely how to shed light on the assets held by politically exposed Lebanese people who are the workings of a system of corruption that is ruining Lebanon and that is raising the anger of the people as has rarely been the case in recent years. It is therefore absolutely necessary to send a signal because there is a real risk of the collapse of Lebanese society, which is disgusted by the persistence of this corrupt system.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u145	Mr Freilich is not here, his question No. 55018867C expires.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u146	Madam President, there have been numerous contacts, both in Brussels and in Kigali, at various levels, on the principle at the heart of your questions: the conditions under which Mr Rusesabagina is held and the guarantee we demand to give him a fair and fair trial. The most recent contact is a letter which I sent to Mr Biruta, my Rwandan colleague, and which I followed with a telephone contact with him last week. In this letter and during this discussion, I insisted on the importance of the rights of the defence, the non-discriminatory nature of detention measures, the adequate medical follow-up and access of his Belgian lawyer in the Belgian judicial proceedings. As regards the access of the Belgian lawyer to Mr Rusesabagina, Rwanda replied that the question has been received and is currently being examined. Belgium continues to raise this question regularly with the Rwandan interlocutors, which I did again during my telephone interview with my colleague on 15 June. With regard to the consular visits that have taken place since May last, I can inform you that two new consular visits have taken place on 6 May and 7 June. Our consul in Kigali has always been able to speak with Mr Rusesabagina. Of course, for privacy reasons, I cannot go into the content of the talks with Mr Rusesabagina. Just before the recent conversation, the Belgian consul in Kigali also met the director of the prison. An additional telephone contact with the director had already taken place on 25 May in connection with a specific question by the family about detention conditions. I can therefore confirm that Belgium regularly draws the attention of the Rwandan authorities to the circumstances in which Mr Rusesabagina is in detention and that there are regular contacts with the prison authorities. Discrimination against other prisoners cannot be justified. The embassy is also in contact with the Rwandan lawyers of Mr Rusesabagina, who were received by the Belgian ambassador in Kigali on 7 and 16 June 2021. I would also like to point out that the competent department of the FPS Foreign Affairs is in close contact with the family and continues to inform them. Paul Rusesabagina's family was received in my cabinet a few weeks ago. I've received them myself recently. Finally, I would like to confirm that Paul Rusesabagina is Belgian. He therefore receives all the assistance he is entitled to as a Belgian citizen. However, Belgium cannot decide whether or not to hold another nationality. That's another state's jurisdiction. I note, however, that Rwanda considers Mr Rusesabagina to be a Rwandan citizen.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u147	Madam Secretary, thank you very much. You have answered all the questions in full. I appreciate you having the family in the cabinet to speak to them personally. When we look at the whole of what is being addressed by the Human Rights Council, Paul Rusesabagina is a symbol. Other prisoners are also the subject of this, with this difference that Belgian nationality also plays here. It is also strong that you are now very much on the case, along with the consul, and that the ambassador has received the lawyers. These are positive points, which the family, his acquaintances and his sympathizers put a heart in the ring. I think it is important that you also mention the repatriation requested in the resolution. Of course, you can't impose them. After all, a fair trial has not been guaranteed so far. We didn't get any sign in that direction. It is also important that malnutrition has recently been addressed. Food and drink are denied to Mr Rusesabagina. The meds still don't come regularly. These are all elements that allow us to continue to raise the issue of repatriation, both now and at a later date. Of course, we do not know when the outcome of the process will happen, although we already know the outcome. We are following this closely and we appreciate the efforts of the Consul, the Ambassador and yourself lately.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u148	I refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u149	Although Belgium is an outgoing member of the UN Security Council, our country will continue to follow closely the negotiations in New York on the renewal of the MONUSCO in close consultation with the current members. We won't just follow up. We will call for the mandate of MONUSCO to remain robust and to be implemented as such. I also addressed this last week to UN Secretary General António Guterres. Negotiations are currently under way at the UN General Assembly on the budget of MONUSCO. Belgium defends the view that sufficient resources should be made available to strengthen the operation of the mission and to use resources efficiently, for example for the protection of citizens. As far as the MONUSCO exit strategy is concerned, we believe that transitional justice should be an integral part of it. As of May 6, a state of siege was established in the provinces of Ituri and North Kivu after President Tshisekedi announced this on 30 April. It shall be valid for 30 days and may be renewed for 15 days at any time, subject to the agreement of the Assemblée Nationale. On 3 June, the Assemblée Nationale agreed for the first time to extend the martial law by 15 days from 16 June. The state of siege means that the provincial governor and the government are replaced by a military governor and a deputy governor of the national police. The executive power rests with the Ministry of Defence. The establishment of this martial law is a sovereign decision of the Congolese authorities. With regard to concrete results on the ground, it is still too premature to draw definitive conclusions. As I emphasised on 5 June together with Minister Kitir, the security situation in the eastern part of the country remains very worrying. Belgium supports the efforts of national authorities and regional and international partners to address the underlying causes of instability and insecurity in the eastern DRC, which is an essential condition for the restoration of lasting peace in the region. The powers of the military administration set up by the State of siege are very broad, including the conduct of searches, the establishment of protection and security zones, the establishment of military courts. In the contacts with the Congolese authorities, Belgium therefore continues to insist that they ensure that the fundamental rights of citizens are guaranteed and that the democratic area is safeguarded in line with the policy pursued by President Tshisekedi and the Government. I also raised this during my discussion with Minister Lutundula, my Congolese colleague, on 5 May last. One more thing about the MONUSCO. The cooperation between e MONUSCO and the Congolese Government is carried out through a headquarters agreement of 2016. The change from a civil provincial government to a military government has not yet required a clear operational adjustment for MONUSCO. From an operational point of view, contacts between Congolese army officers and blue helmets are in accordance with the mandate of the MONUSCO. The DRC is currently developing new structures in the context of the disarmament, demobilisation and reintegration process, but has not yet developed a national strategy. Belgium stands ready to support the efforts of national authorities and international partners, in particular the European Union, to improve the security situation in the country. Several options are currently on the table and are analysed by the competent services.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u150	Madam Minister, this is indeed a situation that we must follow closely. The violence in these provinces in East Congo is like a neverending story. It is a game changer that the state of siege there has now been declared by President Tshisekedi. It was necessary, after more than 20 years of violence. It is a good thing that the Belgian Government is putting the necessary financial resources in place. Minister Kitir and yourself plead for the protection of the civilian population. This is also central to the MONUSCO mission. This is an additional element in the exit strategy, in addition to disarmament and demobilisation of the rebels. It is a good thing that we are following the matter closely and that we are seen internationally as a country that is and will continue to play the leading role in it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u151	Dear colleague, I can confirm that the Belgian Embassy in Lima has regularly informed Foreign Affairs about both the electoral campaign and the latest developments in the presidential election. You yourself recalled the very tight results of the poll, which is still the subject of challenges and appeals. Until these procedures are completed, the results of the election will not be formally confirmed by the National Electoral Council. The final decision is expected at the end of July. All Peruvian government authorities, i.e. the executive, but also the legislature and the judiciary, have called for calm and respect for democracy and public institutions. These bodies reiterated their support for the electoral authorities whose role is to announce the results and the new president. Most international observers, including the European Union electoral mission deployed on the spot, believe that there is no evidence of irregularities or major fraud in the 6 June elections. European experts are also always in the country to monitor the situation closely. The relevant working group within the Council of the European Union has also dealt with the situation several times since the elections. So far, the European Union and its Member States have not expressed their views publicly, either on the current situation or on the conduct of the elections, preferring to wait until the electoral process is officially completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u152	Madam Chair, I'm just going to thank the minister for that answer. We will remain as attentive as you are, in a context where South America is experiencing an illiberal push that can wreak havoc and take it away, as in the neighbouring country, Brazil. Let us pay attention to the fact that democracy and its fundamental principles are well respected there!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u153	Mr.Ben Achour, we have learned of this call bringing together 150 organizations on the situation in Haiti and welcome this mobilization of civil society with a view to a peaceful solution to the Haitian crisis, aggravated by the health situation. The latest periodic report of the Secretary-General of the United Nations shares the concern of civil society about the deterioration of security and the lack of progress towards political agreement. Initially scheduled for the end of the month, a disputed referendum on the Constitution has just been postponed sine die. The general elections in Haiti are still planned - so far - for the month of September. Belgium calls on all actors in the Haitian crisis to refrain from resorting to violence and stresses the fight against insecurity and impunity. We are also defending a firm position towards President Jovenel Moïse. The priority must be a return to security, without which any attempt to break the political impasse could be doomed to failure. Our country does not have an embassy in Haiti. Our embassy in Cuba, which is accredited for Haiti, continues to closely monitor the political and security situation on the ground. The information provided to us confirms the resurgence of covid-19 cases and gang clashes over the past few weeks. Belgians residing in Haiti regularly receive security alerts to inform them of the situation and the travels to be avoided. In addition, our post carried out an on-site mission in May, focusing on security and crisis prevention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u154	Minister, thank you for your answer. In my reply, I will refer to another appeal, that of Médecins sans frontières, which alerted about the consequences of the clashes on its own medical structures, ambulances, patients and staff. If I may, I would like to quote MSF's Head of Mission in Haiti: "We are witnessing an extremely worrying deterioration in the security situation. Armed clashes took place near the emergency centre and MSF offices in Martissant. The medical staff had to protect themselves from the lost bullets. Armed individuals robbed two MSF ambulance drivers, as well as other vehicles from Martissant. To protect our staff, we have had to reduce our community activities, but we continue to deal with emergencies." Thus, we see all the consequences of violence, including on basic services. I would like to recall that abductions remain the main scourge in this context of violence, as their number is estimated at about 20 per week. It is therefore truly anarchy that reigns in Haiti and we wonder, unfortunately, what can be done to restore the situation, at least a minimum security situation, as the situation becomes complicated.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u155	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Ponthier's 55019098C is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u156	In recent consultations with the ministers concerned, it was agreed that Belgium would request an exchange of information with the German authorities on the basis of updated data from the FPS Justice of Persons Sentenced in Belgium for Collaborating. It was also agreed that Belgium would propose the establishment of a Belgian-German scientific committee to better examine the broader historical context and profile of the beneficiaries of such pensions. The services of the Minister of Finance have examined the use of the tax information exchange channels to obtain the requested information. However, they have come to the conclusion that such a request is not possible in the existing legal framework between our two countries. Through our diplomatic post in Berlin, I sent a letter to my German colleague at the beginning of June detailing the requests. I also instructed the Belgian embassy in Berlin to take the necessary steps to emphasise the importance and sensitivity of this issue. These steps are now in progress. My Chief of Staff has also recently met with the German Ambassador in Brussels on this issue and I hope to have a return from the German side in the near future. I will not fail to keep you informed of the follow-up that will be given. With regard to the question on the state of the debate on this subject in the Bundestag, our diplomatic post in Berlin informs me that there have been parliamentary debates on this issue recently through a written question and a proposal by one of the political groups to set up a scientific committee, which has not, at this stage, by a majority in the committee which has examined it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u157	Madam Minister, first of all, I would like to thank you for the initiatives you have taken within the government to make progress on this matter. When I asked this question last time, everyone promised something, but there was little movement. You clearly pulled the cart and got things moving, in cooperation with other ministers. I am pleased that there is an exchange of judicial information and that there will also be a scientific committee. As I have said, this seems to me to be a question of justice. The victims of the Nazi regime will not rest until they have got justice. This is the first step. I regret, however, that an exchange of tax information is not possible. The Netherlands did obtain these data. You should also know that the people who were forced to work at that time have always paid taxes on their pensions, whereas collaborators have not. That is still seen as an injustice.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u158	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. Honestly, I'm very happy to see that this file is finally moving after two years of inertia. Indeed, it has been more than two years since this motion for a resolution, which gives a roadmap to Parliament and the government on this issue, was adopted. It was a motion for a resolution tabled by Olivier Maingain and supported by a whole series of political parties that were really shocked by this system. On the other hand, there are things that I don't understand in your answers. First, you tell us that there will be an exchange regarding the data updated by the Justice FPS, except that these data still need to be refined. The Minister of Justice has specified this because the list of 180 people who have been selected has yet to be worked on according to a range of criteria. I would have wanted to know what was happening because without this fine-tuning, we will not be able to communicate them to the German authorities. As far as the Belgian-German Scientific Committee is concerned, I understand that a majority has not emerged in the Bundestag. However, the motion for a resolution makes it clear that, if there is no possibility of establishing a Belgo-German committee, we must be able to do so at the Belgo-Belgian level. As far as the exchange of tax information is concerned, I must recall that the Netherlands has been able to obtain information despite certain European directives on tax data protection. Madam Minister, we have levers that must be activated since they have been activated in other European countries which are also affected by this system. This system is just unbearable. It rewards people who have collaborated with one of the most deadly regimes in our history. It undermines our duty to remember and the dignity of the resistors and victims of Nazism. As we have seen recently in a press article, this system also reveals a fiscal injustice. That is why I am going to question the Minister of Finance. In fact, forcibly recruited persons receive a disability pension which is taxed, contrary to the pensions received by persons who have worked in full knowledge of the Nazi regime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u159	Mr De Roover, as you know, on 16 June I responded clearly and publicly to the statements made by the Chinese Foreign Minister. The independence of Parliament and its freedom of expression and reflection are not negotiable and cannot be used as conditions to safeguard our good bilateral relations. On 8 May, I had the opportunity to discuss openly various issues, including the situation in Xinjiang and Hong Kong, with my Chinese homologist, Wang Yi. At that time, the sanctions against Belgian and other Members of the European Parliament were already in force. I have made clear the serious Belgian and European concerns about the human rights situation in China and about the Chinese sanctions. My services do that systematically. I do not wish to speculate on a possible further reaction, but of course we remain very vigilant. It goes without saying that the issue is also discussed bilaterally and with the European partners. The various aspects of the relationship with China are discussed regularly with the European partners, also in the light of the sanctions imposed by the Union in the framework of its global sanctions mechanism for human rights violations on 22 March and the Chinese response to them. As you know, the relationship with China is characterised by a degree of complexity that makes China appear as a partner, an economic and technological competitor, but also as a systemic rival in terms of freedom of expression or the universality of human rights. As regards cyber attacks, you know that on 22 May last, the National Security Council adopted a new Belgian national cyber security strategy. It is not directed against a specific country, but it also makes it possible to diplomatically attribute cyberattacks. For the other aspects related to the cybersecurity of Belgium, I invite you to contact the Cybersecurity Centre.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u160	Madam Minister, we are in a somewhat difficult position because we are right to ask China to make no concessions whatsoever to fully defend freedom of expression and freedom of expression, here with us in general but also in Parliament and, of course, outside Parliament. I can imagine that some countries, perhaps China, will mention an inconsistency. They will argue as follows: if you think you should express yourself about what is happening to us, then we have the right to interfere with what is happening in your country. I have already had experience on foreign travel, including with the committee in the previous legislature, that we are being reminded of an inconsistency there. It is certainly my conviction that we must stand up for the free exercise of politics for every citizen, especially every fellow Member. I would like to encourage you to continue to do so with our support.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u161	Madam President, Minister, I have had very recent contact with the person concerned. It is not intended to discuss here elements that would relate to an individual file and would not respect privacy. In the meantime, however, the media have already paid attention to it and Mr Daumerie himself is asking for it to be brought to a different level than that of private or diplomatic contacts, so that it is given some publicity. For the sake of clarity, I will not make any preliminary remarks as to whether, by whom and to what extent mistakes would have occurred here, which would give rise to convictions or whatever. I do have an opinion on the file, as I know it. I have the impression that Mr Daumerie is the victim of certain events, but again, I cannot and will not stand in the place of a court. We must be absolutely committed to correct and fair justice. The information he has given me personally, certainly not with the question of putting it under the carpet, can be made public here. He stayed in a hotel room for 11 months after his papers were taken away. Then he got a blitz trial, ninety seconds, with a sentence to one month in prison and actually much longer, because additional a fine of 230,000 euros. He should stay in prison until that fine is paid. I do not take a stand there, but the course of that process certainly does not fit in with what we call a normal course of justice. There is also a type of appeal that has been registered. It's still running. He has had to issue his passport, is hardly aware of what is actually being charged him, and so on. A well-known international law firm talks about a mock trial and talks about a hopeless and degrading personal situation. You have taken note of the matter. What assistance can be provided to him with a view to getting a fair trial? To what extent can you use contacts with your colleagues or with the authorities in Abu Dhabi to ensure this? I am convinced that our relations with Abu Dhabi, where, by the way, a lot of people do business, are very important to us as well as to the authorities in the Emirates, and that they will appreciate that there is no bad atmosphere towards Abu Dhabi or the Emirates. Do you also know about other Belgians who would be in such a situation? What initiatives are most useful in getting progress in this painful affair and coming to a good conclusion?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u162	Madam President, Madam Minister, Mr De Roover has already made the question quite complete, so I agree with his explanatory statement. In addition, I would like to ask you about the health situation. Is medical assistance also provided, if any? It is reported that the right to a covid vaccine is denied, which I consider to be an important question in this dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u163	Madam President, Mr De Roover, Mrs Samyn, on the matter of Johan Daumerie, a Dilbeek entrepreneur in Dubai, I can say the following in reply to your questions. Our Embassy in Abu Dhabi has been in close contact with Mr Daumerie since November 2020. The embassy and the administration of foreign affairs are well aware of the file and of the latest developments. The Belgian privacy law does not allow me to share personal data about countrymen. I cannot, on the substance, comment on the legal aspects of the dossier either. Mr Daumerie will be given consular assistance, which will of course remain the case for as long as he himself wishes and needs it. Respect for the rights of the defence is a priority for our country and our embassy is following the case closely. However, there can be no intervention in ongoing judicial proceedings. This would be seen as interference in the internal affairs of the Emirates and would, of course, not be in Mr Daumerie's interest either. In this context, the withdrawal of the passport and residence permit are part of the decisions taken under the current legal procedure. Our embassy also continues to follow that aspect of the file carefully. The issue of medical assistance in the context of the covid pandemic has not yet been raised by Mr Daumerie, but our embassy will, of course, also provide assistance when the question arises. All the demarches that would be considered appropriate in this case at some point within our powers will be looked at.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u164	Madam Minister, I have every respect for you not to go into the legal ground of the matter and not to take a stand on it. I know there are contacts between Mr Daumerie and the embassy, but the possibilities of the embassy are very limited. You say you can't interfere in certain matters. However, we have just adopted a resolution on Mr Rusesabagina's process and a question has just been asked. I will not go through the comparison, but it is about a fellow countryman abroad who is apparently subject to a judicial procedure that raises questions. I certainly do not wish to contradict you when you are careful about this matter and when you respect all the privacy elements, but it seems to me that you are showing a far-reaching passivity in this matter, and I regret that. You do not contact your colleague or the institutions in Abu Dhabi to express those concerns, because the fact is there, and I do not think that this is appropriate to the seriousness of the matter. I would really like to insist on a more active role for you. That doesn't mean that there's a judgment on right and wrong. You are making sure that justice is given in a serious way, which is certainly not the case at the moment. The personal suffering of the person concerned and his family must not be underestimated. I would ask you to pay appropriate attention to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u165	I agree with Mr De Roover's reply. I fully understand the delicateness of the matter. You are following the matter closely. I would certainly urge that his health situation be monitored. There is certainly a need to provide sufficient healthy food. A possible medical problem must certainly be dealt with; it is entitled to medical assistance.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u166	The Minister was willing to stay a bit, but perhaps it would be good to refer to the written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u167	Madam President, Mrs Samyn, there is a need to distinguish between two issues which, although linked, are different. The Asylum and Migration Pact proposed by the Commission in September 2020 is a series of texts aimed at developing a comprehensive vision of asylum and migration in order to improve its management. The EU-Turkey Declaration, on the other hand, is an 2016 agreement on the management of migratory flows between the European Union and Turkey. I will come back to this later and deal first with the Asylum and Migration Pact. Negotiations on the internal part of the Pact have been stalled in recent months, partly as a result of the blockade of certain Member States with regard to a balance between solidarity and responsibility. On the other hand, there is a relative consensus on the proposals relating to the external aspects. This issue was discussed at the European Council on 24 June, because although migration flows to Europe are currently less large than after the 2015 crisis, the situation needs to be kept under constant review. There is a slight increase. It cannot be ruled out that it will continue as the restrictions imposed by the pandemic are lifted, weather conditions are more favourable, or depending on the political developments in certain states. At the last European Council, Member States adopted conclusions on the external dimension of the European Union's migration policy. They aim to strengthen partnerships and cooperation with countries of origin and transit. From this point of view, the European Commission and the High Representative are invited to strengthen immediately, in close cooperation with the Member State, concrete action with the priority countries of origin and transit as well as concrete support measures for these countries. The same bodies are also invited to propose "an action plan for the same countries in autumn 2021 with clear objectives, additional support measures and concrete timetables'. Finally, the Commission is invited to make best use of at least 10% of the NDICI Fund and of funding under other relevant instruments for migration-related action and to report to the Council by November on its intention in this area. The European Council also condemned any attempt by third countries to use migrants for political purposes. More generally, I would like to point out that the EUDO has proposed the Team Europe approach to structure the resources used to manage the links between governance, migration and mobility. This approach aims to combine the resources of the EU, its Member States and financial institutions to provide a coordinated multilateral response to migration issues. I shall now turn to the second subject. In March 2016, the European Union and Turkey adopted a joint declaration in which both parties made commitments to stop the illegal migration flows from Turkey to Europe. In order to prevent people from being put at risk, the Declaration contains a series of provisions on the return of migrants who have illegally come from Turkey to the Greek islands and on a system of resettlement of Turkey to the EU. In this context, the European Union would provide financial assistance for the reception of Syrian refugees in Turkey. Better control of borders by the Turkish authorities is also planned. The EU has set up a different financial mechanism, the Refugee Facility for Turkey. This facility consisted of two slices of EUR 3 billion, partly financed by the European budget and partly by the Member States.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u168	Madam Minister, I will read the answer in the report, or you can send it to me in writing. I see there are several pages involved.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u169	Thank you, Mrs Samyn. I have a team that always wants to answer questions very accurately, and so do I. But if there are a lot of specific questions, it takes a lot of time. Thank you for your understanding, Mrs Samyn. We will certainly send you the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u170	Madam Secretary, you always answer our questions in great detail. We're very happy about that, too. I would like to talk briefly about Turkey's attitude on this issue. It will certainly have to be kept in mind, because it would not be the first time that Turkey would use migration and the refugee deal with the EU as a political weapon. With the recently extended deal with Turkey, the EU is once again making itself dependent on the Turkish Government. Let us not forget that Turkey is also being generously compensated for this. They receive a generous cheque of €6 billion for the reception of refugees. But let us be honest, the deal between the EU and Turkey can hardly be described as a success.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u171	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Jadin's 55019323C is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u172	I refer to the question that has been put.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u173	Almost five months after the coup d'état in Myanmar on 1 February and two months after Parliament's adoption of the resolution, the situation remains extremely worrying. The violence is omnipresent. The humanitarian situation is serious. The army seems determined not to make any concessions. The number of armed actors is increasing and conflicts lead to an increase in the flow of displaced persons. The international pressure to find a solution is therefore essential. Belgium must also take care of this, first and foremost together with the European partners. In response to the deteriorating situation and the abuses of the military, the European Union announced new sanctions against Myanmar on 21 June. The sanctions now affect 43 persons and 6 entities. They include a freezing of assets, a prohibition on making funds available to those persons and entities and a travel ban. These sanctions are in addition to the existing sanctions, which were extended on 30 April. In addition, the European Union, through its High Representative, supported the five-point consensus reached by the leaders of the ASEAN Association of South-East Asian Nations on 23 April. The consensus included the establishment of a dialogue process between all parties and the appointment of an ASEAN Special Envoy as well as humanitarian assistance. Unfortunately, little progress has been made. The European Union also continues to provide substantial humanitarian aid. At the United Nations level, Belgium has indeed participated in the preparation of the General Assembly resolution. Belgium supports all initiatives to keep Myanmar on the Security Council agenda and supports the work of the Special Envoy of the Secretary-General for Myanmar, Ms Christine Burgener. Belgium is following the situation very closely. Our embassy in Bangkok, whose jurisdiction extends to Myanmar, regularly reports on the situation. Our staff in the services of the FOD have also had various contacts with NGOs working on the ground and with opponents of the junta. Belgium will continue to support all initiatives that bring a solution and will continue to advocate unrestricted humanitarian access. Furthermore, Belgium will continue to follow very closely the initiatives relating to the fight against impunity for the serious crimes committed in Myanmar. For example, our country is in close contact with an independent investigation mechanism for Myanmar set up in 2018 by the UN Human Rights Council, whose mandate relates to violations committed in Myanmar since 2011. Our country continues to follow closely the case that Gambia has brought before the International Court of Justice. In this context, we are in contact with our Dutch and Canadian counterparts. The International Court of Justice decided in January 2020, requested by Gambia, to take interim measures. Myanmar, for example, is obliged to take all measures in its power to prevent any acts of genocide against the Rohingya and to ensure that the evidence relating to the alleged acts of genocide is preserved. Myanmar must report on these measures. We do not have any information on the matter given the confidential nature of the procedure. It is indeed up to the International Court of Justice to monitor the effective implementation of the measures. In the event of non-execution, the International Court of Justice may refer the matter to the Security Council. The UN Charter gives the Security Council a mandate to implement the Court's decision when one of the parties fails to comply with it. However, we can assume that such a step will inevitably give rise to much discussion in the Security Council. The coup will undoubtedly affect the case and the question of who will represent Myanmar before the International Court of Justice will be important.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u174	Thank you very much for your comprehensive answer, Madam Secretary. It doesn't look so good in Myanmar. I have, of course, also taken note of the steps already taken by the EU and the UN. I am very pleased that Belgium supports and maintains contacts on the ground through the embassy. The resolution asked the government to join the matter brought before the International Court of Justice by Gambia. I understand that there are contacts with the Netherlands and with Canada on this issue. But is it true that Belgium is not joining the procedure at the moment?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u175	Perhaps you should put another question on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u176	Madam President, Mrs Vanrobaeys, Treaty No. 190 of the International Labour Organisation on the Elimination of Violence and Harassment in the World of Work is an important tool to get that practice off the workplace. Belgium has indeed played a leading role and its ratification is a priority. Belgium has also adopted a commitment on this subject within the framework of the Generation Equality Forum for the 25th anniversary of the Beijing Conference on Women's Rights. The prepared consent file should be compiled by the Employment Office, which is technically competent. As soon as this dossier is available, my services will be able to initiate the assent procedure. The Convention was declared mixed by the Working Group on Mixed Conventions, with dates February 2020 and 18 May 2021. The federated entities are therefore aware of the importance of the Convention. The Convention was already approved by the Flemish Decree on 30 April 2021. A ratification instrument may be deposited with the depositary of the Convention as soon as all the competent parliaments have agreed to the Convention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u177	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. I also think that this treaty is very important. I would like to stress once again the importance of Belgium's leading role in this. Because it is an international treaty, other countries are often looked at, but the figures from the Institute for Gender Equality show that harassment at work also increased by 13% in Belgium in 2020, even though we were mainly working telework. I think this is also an important instrument for Belgium. Your answer to the preparations of the FOD WASO does surprise me, because I asked Minister Dermagne months ago. He said that everything was ready and that I had to ask you the question of ratification. I feel like I'm being sent from the locker to the wall. I will certainly ask Minister Dermagne again, but I hope this will not be a major problem. The Convention entered into force on 25 June, two years after its signature. I hope, together with you, that we can ratify this treaty as soon as possible, so that we can take our lead in it further and take concrete measures for workers in the workplace.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u178	Mrs Vanrobaeys, I certainly don't want to give the impression that I'm sending you away. I'll ask my cabinet to get more information on your question. Hopefully it's just a misunderstanding. I hope you're raising this file will speed up the procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u179	I'm also assuming a misunderstanding, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u180	My question No. 55019418C is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u181	Minister, I am referring here to our meeting on June 15, 2021. I then asked you about possible initiatives to be taken, in view of the current session of the Human Rights Council, on the establishment of this United Nations database of enterprises active in Israeli settlements. You told me that Belgium did not oppose this, but that no mechanism was currently in place for this purpose, nor any human or financial resources. The explanation you advanced was that resolution 31/36 did not provide for an update. However, in paragraph 17, on page 8, the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights is requested to establish a database of all the companies involved and to update it annually. Moreover, on the basis of these elements of your response, you felt that this could mean that the initiative in the Council would go to the Palestinians. On this side, the expected signal arrived last week as the Palestine mission to the Council clearly called for this annual update, saying that it was "disappointed that no updates had been published" and not seeing "no justification for delays". Such a measure would be very useful in the ongoing efforts to deepen our policy of differentiation, to which this government, and therefore you, the minister, subscribe. Minister, do you maintain your analysis of the content of Resolution 3136? How will we respond to this Palestinian call?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u182	Mr.Ben Achour, in response to your question on the United Nations database on businesses active in Israeli settlements, I would like to point out that, while resolution 3136 of 2016 has made it possible to finance the creation of this database, it has not provided sufficient and lasting funding for an annual update. In June 2020, a few months after the publication of the database, the High Commissioner, Michelle Bachelet, herself confirmed to the Human Rights Council that "if member States prefer OHCHR to continue updating the database, an additional budget will be required". The High Commissioner made it clear, with regard to the follow-up to resolution 3136 and, in particular, the updating of the database, that "the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights would like to recommend to the Human Rights Council the establishment of a group of independent experts, with a time-limited mandate, who would report directly to the Council for that purpose". In other words, the High Commissioner stressed the need for action by the Human Rights Council in this area. Like you, I took note of the statement made by the Palestinians in Geneva at the current session of the Human Rights Council, which calls for an update. This declaration is not, at this stage, an initiative supported by the Council with regard to a declaration. It does not ask other Member States to position themselves. So far, no initiative has been taken in line with the High Commissioner's recommendations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic530x.u183	Minister, I take note of your answer, which I will reread in the rested report. I will eventually come back to you to continue the exchange and try to move forward on this issue, which I believe is important if we are to fulfil the commitments of our government agreement.
