ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip120x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip120x.u2	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip120x.u3	Madam President, I have no problem being a reporter or even an oral reporter. I am happy to do so, but if the majority wants to go through all sorts of things just before the recess without giving the services, those hard-working people in this House, some room to make an accurate report, I do regret that. I regret even more that when agreements are made on the agenda, they are adjusted during the sitting. Today, although the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber expressly prohibit this, we have already had two committees on Social Affairs. During the epilogue of the youngest committee, which was just in the process, I was informed that in contradiction to the agreement made at the Conference of Presidents, immediately following the committee, the plenary discussion of the association work would begin. In this way, the members of the Social Affairs Committee have hardly been able to follow the plenary session today. This method also ensured that the plenary session was suspended for a long time for no real reason. I will therefore have to apologize for this brief oral report on the examination of the extension of the draft law on association work. I would normally also write it down in the run-up to the resumption of the plenary tomorrow. The discussion in the Committee on Social Affairs took place on Monday 12 July after several follow-up questions had already been asked by several members of this committee in recent months. This change has therefore been announced for months, without really becoming concrete. Colleagues Anseuw, Willaert, Delizée, Bomblet, Lanjri, Colebunders, De Block and myself, intervened with all kinds of questions for clarification. Minister Vandenbroucke of course also replied, after which the opposition drew the final word. During the discussion there were some problems that actually existed in the first version of this law. I am thinking, for example, of the lack of clarity as to whether or not this regulation applies to city guides. Are they included in this enlargement or not? They didn't turn out to be, by the way. The double taxation of two times 10% imposed on the association work was also addressed, unlike, for example, the single burden on the platform economy, which is indeed competitive for traditional employment. Further enlargement in the future also passed through the review. Furthermore, the end date, which still hangs like a sword of Damocles above the head of the associations, was also discussed. The proposed extension for discussion today will be introduced retroactively from 8 May 2021 and will run until 31 December 2021. So much for my report on the committee's work.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip120x.u4	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the law before us has a history. The last step we took on the union work was actually the repair law at the end of last year. At the end of last year, the purple-green parties reached a so-called compromise on this union work. Tens of thousands of volunteers are engaged in valuable association work and should receive a small fee. Today it is a lot harder than 10, 15 or 25 years ago to find people who want to engage in association life. However, this does not affect the great value of the associations, on the contrary. About three quarters of association workers are active within sports associations. The compromise reached at the end of last year within the purple-green government certainly does not deserve a beauty prize. The only good thing about that arrangement is that it exists. Something's always better than nothing. There are problems with this, but the proposal now before us is not going to help. It even magnifies some of those problems. One of the most remarkable things, which I mentioned last year, is that union work is suddenly subject to twice a 10% tax, whereas association work is very far from our regular economy and does not compete. Twice 10% is very high, especially compared to the platform economy, which in part affects the regular economy. However, this is subject to only 10% tax once. As far as I'm concerned, that's really an anomaly. It is contradictory that, the further you are from the regular economy, the more burdened you are. Sports associations, sociocultural associations and other associations are extremely important for our society. I therefore continue to find it very strange that they are being taxed twice as heavily as the platform economy, which has its merit. I find one really hard to reconcile with the other. It's not the first time I've asked the question, but I'll ask them again because I never get an answer. How do you explain that the union work has to pay twice 10% tax and that the platform economy, which is much closer to and for a part part of our regular economy, is taxed half as much? How can you rhyme one thing with another? For the past year, I have asked that question several times. You have never replied, Minister. It's part of that compromise that doesn't deserve a beauty prize. On the contrary, it's an ugly duckling. Once again the opportunity is missed to set that right, to give that duck a bit of a facelift, with perhaps some fillers and botox. It's still a sad duckling, but it'll still be a little less ugly. The fundamental question is how we want to deal with our associations in our society. There are Members of Parliament who do not think associations are so important, which is reflected in the fact that the majority parties maintain the double taxation of 20%. What do you guys have against associations? Why do you charge this double compared to, for example, the platform economy, when associations are far from the regular economy? On the positive side of this bill, the scope is being extended. That is also a question that we have asked earlier, namely to ensure that there is also a regulation for sociocultural associations, because they were in uncertainty and illegality. It is therefore a good thing that the scope of the association work is extended. The second chance missed by this draft law is that there is no prospect of a final settlement after this year. After all, the current repair law at the end of last year only applies until the end of this year. The associations still do not know what they are up to from 1 January. In your opinion, there may be some time left to put it in order and to inform them, but I would point out that the year of operation of many associations does not start on 1 January. That runs from the second half of the summer to the beginning of the next summer. They are now on the eve of a new year of operation, but they do not know how to organise the second half of that year of operation and what rules they will have to take into account. For example, they do not know how they will or will not be taxed and under what conditions the work of association will be possible. They must now organise themselves on the basis of an arrangement which they cannot know. This also creates a lot of uncertainty and can make it very difficult for many associations. If they make agreements with volunteers today to provide the necessary support during the year of operation, whether it is a sports or sociocultural association, then they can be very deceived by mid-year. History teaches us that too, as witnessed by the two times 10% load that was put in their necks at the end of last year. They are, of course, very wary of another poisoned gift. That is the second chance that is missed here: it is not even clear for the year of operation which is actually starting next month and which is already in full preparation. Many associations do not really know what they stand for in the next year of operation. At the end of last year, we left a compromise which, in fact, only has the merit of having a settlement and today we are at a point where the government is dealing very hard with the associations, because they are burdened twice as much as the platform economy. Perhaps today there will be an answer to the question of what the majority has against the associations and why they are subject to double taxation compared to a number of economic activities. It is also particularly regrettable and regrettable that the majority misses the opportunity to clarify the associations before the start of their year of operation. We will approve the extension of the scope before us, provided, of course, that we do not approve the double taxation introduced at the end of last year. We are also arguing that as soon as possible, as far as we are concerned, this means that a matter of weeks should be clarified for the many associations which are working in these associations, so that they know where they stand and what they should stick to. In this way they can take this into account when organising their year of operation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip120x.u5	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that it is not time to repeat a long history of this issue, especially since this was done in committee and this will be included in the report. I just want to point out that, for us, the text proposed here is of a temporary nature and I believe that has been well said and understood in our committee work. We have received an opinion from the National Labour Council (NCT) and an opinion from the Council of State, which should be taken into account. For these two bodies, this option is not desirable as a structural response to the framework of voluntary work. An ad hoc statute raises important questions on the application of labour and social security legislation. The NTC has also issued a new, very recent opinion which must also be taken into account. This Opinion of the CNT recalls that several unanimous negative opinions have been delivered on the extension of the provisional system of voluntary work to sectors other than sport, by several Joint Committees, including No 329 for the sociocultural sector, dated 17 May 2021. In the latter opinion, the Joint Committee states that the needs of the sector require a structural solution that preserves social dialogue and its achievements, as well as labour legislation. That being said, we fully agree that this text should open up a very specific sector, which is the arts, amateur arts and cultural education sector, to emerge from a sort of legal vacuum in the course of 2021. In this sense, we will support the text presented here. But we have really insisted that a structural solution must be found before the end of this year, and the minister is well aware of this. This structural solution must, of course, take into account the criticisms that have been made and the risks identified, including the avoidance of regular work, unfair competition with small businesses and self-employed people, and the deterioration of employment. Our discussions also focused on a path of reflection and openness, which would be Article 17 of the Royal Decree of 28 November 1969 on social security for workers. We feel that the solution must be sought in this direction in order to adopt a sustainable alternative regulation and thus replace the provisional law of 24 December 2020 on voluntary work and provide a definitive legal basis. Finally, we stressed the need for consultation between the Regions and the Communities responsible for sport and culture. But I guess it's already going on, too. That, Madam Chair, is the point that our group will support the government's proposed project.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip120x.u6	Literally on the eve of 2021, a temporary solution was found for the law on association work which was then destroyed. The Flemish Interest Group already had three fundamental comments on these temporary solutions. Firstly, the temporary nature of that measure, secondly, its limitation to the sports sector and thirdly, the double taxation. These comments are still largely valid today. It was already clear at the time that this arrangement was far too limited. The current draft law wants to extend it a little bit, namely to certain activities in amateur arts and sociocultural adult work. The lifting of a number of co-vid measures for the cultural sector since 8 May 2021 had made an amendment to this law very urgent. Now we're gonna take care of this with retroactive effect. We have fundamental and permanent problems with this approach because of the legal uncertainty created by retroactive legislation. This adaptation had been announced for some time, including under certain conditions on the specific website associationwerk.be. However, the double taxation of union work remains a problem for our group. Why do we apply this double taxation to the work of association and not to the work of the collaborative economy? In other words, why don't we abolish them for the union work? Why is work for an association twice as heavily taxed as regular work? There are also comments to be made on the method used. First of all, the definition of what is precisely understood by certain activities in amateur arts and sociocultural adult work is not entirely clear. This needs to be clarified, and the Council of State also made this comment. It is clear that both descriptions may give rise to confusion among the organisers of such activities. In addition to the fact that this arrangement is being discussed and put to the vote again late for discussion, it is again a coming story as this temporary law of 24 December 2020 will be lifted on 31 December 2021. If that happens, because with this government one never knows. So it is a pity that there is still no definitive solution. Now we are putting a lot of sports and socio-cultural associations back into uncertainty. This summer, they will have to draw up their budgets for the next year of work and make arrangements with trainers and teachers. As a legislator, we must ensure timely and clear legislation. We regret that this has not been done again. We will approve this enlargement, but our comments remain valid.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip120x.u7	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we will not support this proposal. We had an opportunity to discuss it at length in committee this Monday. We are not in favour of the temporary extension of the system of voluntary work. Indeed, if the idea seems quite sympathetic, it is, in fact, the creation of a new sub-statut. The measure is temporary, and we hope it will remain so. According to what the minister told us, a meeting was to take place yesterday with the National Labour Council. We would have wished to know what the result was, but the minister told us that he had not attended this meeting and could not give us any information about it, which we regret. In any event, it is well known that the actors on the ground and the trade unions are not in favour of it and that they are instead advocating for an adaptation of Article 17, as my colleague has explained. We really hope that the mechanism put in place will disappear at the end of the year to be replaced by a more definitive system, more respectful of workers' rights and social security. These are the reasons why we will not support this project.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip120x.u8	Madam President, Open Vld is naturally pleased that the scope of association work has been extended to include activities on amateur arts and socio-cultural adult work. Association work is an occasional and often small-scale activity in leisure time with an enormous social value. Everyone is aware of that. An association worker is someone who is undergoing training to enhance the quality of sports, arts and culture. An association worker follows a training course, prepares lessons, teaches, guides players or students. So it's someone who's connected to an association with a huge passion for his or her work. An association worker cannot be compared at all with a volunteer who receives a compensation to compensate for expenses incurred. Association work cannot be regarded as professional work either, because it is done mostly during leisure time, where one is rightly compensated for the services provided as a trainer, teacher or conductor. The fact that the sector of amateur arts and socio-cultural adult work were asking parties to also be able to claim the law on association work shows that they do support the principles of legislation. The framework for association work was adapted in December 2020 to respond to the observations of the Constitutional Court, and in second instance to those of the Council of State. We all know that the law on association work ends on 31 December 2021. What the future will bring is largely dependent on the advice of the NAR. I am pleased that the Minister will, on this basis, draw up a draft which meets the needs of these different sectors. I cannot be blamed for hoping that the existing legislation will be enforced or amended. If the 25-day scheme is to be worked out through Article 17, a thorough review will have to be carried out, and a number of concerns will have to be identified. I am thinking, for example, of the farm tax applied within this scheme, the 25 days which are absolutely not enough for an association worker, the administrative burden, the compulsory recognition by the public authorities. These are all concerns that need to be looked at. I hope for a sustainable solution for the sector in the autumn, so that there will be a definitive solution for the association workers who are crucial for many associations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip120x.u9	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, this draft law is the result of our commitment at the end of December to the first amendment of the law on association work. We have said to the socio-cultural sector that we would look at enlargement, especially if activities are possible again, if security measures allow it once again after the coronapandemic. With our group, we can support enlargement, because, as Mr Delizée said, it is limited, both in terms of target group and in terms of time. I will not repeat history, nor will I repeat the whole debate on association work. We have already pointed out the precarious nature and the danger of repression of ordinary work in the previous law on association work. Those dangers haven't gone away yet. That is why our group is very much looking forward to the advice of the social partners. We are told that this is in the direction of an amendment to Article 17 of the RSZ Act. We hope that there will be a structural and widely supported solution for the union workers, whose work we very much appreciate. On the other hand, the work of association must be sufficiently restricted to avoid prematureity or displacement of labour.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip120x.u10	Madam President, I would like to thank all the groups for their patience and perseverance, which enabled us to draw up, at the end of last year, a provisional arrangement for the sport sector and association work, which we are now extending to the socio-cultural and amateur arts sectors. This extension will take place on a temporary basis, but in the context of the cessation of measures against the coronavirus and the re-launch of socio-cultural work and amateur arts, we thought it appropriate to enable the work of association to be resumed. I would first like to reply briefly to what Mr Anseuw said. Of course we are not doing the two times 10% taxing for pleasure, but that is a weak argument in itself. Why is there a difference with work in the platform economy, where the total levy is indeed less than at present in the regulation of the association work? It is not a reform of the platform economy and the whole of taxation. That is a debate in itself. It is a temporary solution as a result of the destruction of the famous back-up law. In addition to a number of fundamental considerations, it was important to establish an arrangement which, in all its temporality, would really be robust in relation to types of criticism such as the criticism that led to the destruction of the Jobs Act by the Constitutional Court. This had to do, among other things, with the fact that the Constitutional Court found the difference in taxation between the work on the one hand and regular work on the other extremely large and difficult to justify. That had to do with regular work versus side jobs. With the parties who have supported this temporary solution, we have sought to avoid being subjected to the same type of criticism that led to the destruction of the addition law. That has a lot to do with that. That's the history. There is a lot to say about the platform economy. I am not insensitive to what is said, but the reform and the fairness of the platform economy, which is needed, is not for this. Here it is a temporary solution for the union work. We must indeed offer a perspective. Mr Delizée, Mrs De Jonge and Mrs Vanrobaeys and others have all said this. We need to provide a perspective for a sustainable and final settlement. I certainly do not want to anticipate what is the best way to regulate parafiscality and taxation. We're gonna have to look at that together. There is now an opinion from the National Labour Council. Mrs Lanjri asked me in committee if I had any knowledge of this and I had to confess that that was not the case. I've certainly received it now. With that advice, we have a good basis. Mrs De Jonge, that is of course not sacrosanct; it is a starting point to work on and we will look at it. That advice suggests that we need to find a sustainable solution for the association work based on a change to the famous article 15 of the RSZ decision of 1969. Mrs De Jonge has already provided a number of elements that will be discussed in the debate, such as 25 days or not. I will not say what that opinion says; I am sure you have already received it. There are a number of incentives in this and I believe that we have now really left for a definitive settlement. When it comes to a royal decision, of course, that is work for the government, but I really want to commit myself to making it work with Parliament in great transparency, since Parliament has nevertheless laid the foundations for the solutions to the union work, which are now solaceful here. This is an important moment. The work isn't perfect. I am aware that, as you say, Mr Anseuw, there is still a problem. In any case, this is a temporary solution to a punctual situation. We certainly hope to create a sustainable perspective for the whole sector, generically well defined on the basis of the advice of the partners, united in the National Labour Council. I'm glad we got this far. People were waiting for that. The fact that parties which do not belong to the majority of governments want to support enlargement, despite critical remarks, because it is useful that it is happening now, shows a common sense of urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip120x.u11	Madam President, Minister, it is indeed a temporary solution. It is a pity that the government's homework is not ready in time for the new year of operation of these many associations which also have to take into account the new upcoming arrangement on association work. Either way, whether it is a temporary arrangement or not, that is not the reason why two times 10% is levied on that association work. In any case, this rate is an arbitrary choice. That arbitrary choice was made by this purple-green government and no one else. The Constitutional Court has not said how much that rate should be, that is a choice you have made. Apparently 10% is already enough, because for the platform economy that is part of the regular economy, 10% is apparently not a problem. The association work is very far away from that regular economy, so can one ask oneself why the union work should be taxed at all if it does not enter into competition and certainly at least at two times 10%? That's not a really good explanation. You have made it clear that this choice was made on the basis, as you call it, of a number of fundamental considerations. So, Minister, I would like to know from you what these basic considerations actually are. I would have liked to have heard that from you, because I think that is how we come to the heart of the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip120x.u12	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip120x.u13	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2094/3) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2094/3) The bill has three articles. The draft law has 3 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip120x.u14	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip120x.u15	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip120x.u16	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Committee on Health and Equal Opportunities, I will explain Articles 1 to 8 of the bill on health. The draft was given urgency on 8 July and we discussed it at the meetings of 7 and 12 July 2021. The draft before us contains several provisions. It is a slim design, in which only provisions that need to be taken soon are prevented. Title 2, Chapter 1 concerns amendments to the Law of 20 July 2006, the so-called FAGG Act. In addition to some textual changes, these are clarifications on the fee for a remote inspection. It is intended to avoid disputes in the event of the FAGG's inspection being charged. Articles 3 and 4 made technical clarifications following the opinion of the Council of State. In the same Title 2 chapter 2, we make amendments to the coordinated law of 10 May 2015 on the implementation of health professions. Article 5 allows pharmacists, in addition to doctors, to prescribe a flu vaccine. A legal basis is also provided for the further implementation of this provision. This measure will initially apply for one year, but can be renewed after evaluation. In order to increase the vaccination rate for seasonal flu, the thresholds for vaccination are reduced as low as possible. Avoiding going to the doctor for a prescription, then collecting the vaccine from the pharmacist, and then returning to the doctor, is therefore a step forward. The administrative burden with the doctor is removed, and the trajectory for the patient is simplified. The Council of State has made a reservation in this respect and stated that Article 5 would not comply with European law. It is added that a more thorough investigation is necessary and that the Council of State has not been able to carry out that investigation within the time limit available to it. These comments were examined and it is concluded that neither the EU Treaty nor the European Community Code on medicinal products for human use nor any other text prevents it from being adopted. I can also refer to other European countries, such as France, which have entrusted the prescription of the flu vaccine to pharmacists, and also to our own regulations which allow the prescription of various vaccines by midwifes. The comments on the article gave a detailed reply to the comments of the Council of State. Title 3 concerns provisions relating to the Public Health Office. The first chapter deals with continuing training for health professionals. The law on the exercise of health professions and certain of its implementing acts provide for continuing training obligations for certain health professions. As a result of the corona crisis, the organisation of the hours of continuous training for various reasons, such as the lockdown, the organization according to hygiene measures, the availability of qualified personnel, has been severely disturbed, which meant that many training courses had to be postponed or cancelled. Consequently, many health professionals were unable to follow these hours of continuous training. In addition, certain categories of health care professionals were frequently called upon to manage this health crisis and the various healthcare situations they had to manage and still have to manage because of this crisis. This mobilization of the care staff resulted in them being forced to acquire new competences during that period and to increase the knowledge of their professional practice. The purpose of the provision is therefore to provide for the neutralisation of the obligation to continue training during the health crisis and thus to exempt the health professionals concerned from their obligation to continue training for the years 2020 and 2021 so that they do not suffer from the health crisis. The second chapter concerns an amendment to the law of 23 March 2021 on a proportionality assessment prior to the introduction or amendment of a health sector professional regulation. As a result of a material error, Article 12 of the Law of 23 March 2021 adds a paragraph relating to the mandatory periodic review of health care professional regulations. This paragraph was included in the draft submitted to Parliament, but due to a material error it was no longer included in the draft which was discussed here and put to the vote. During the general discussion, Mr Depoorter asked several questions on behalf of the N-VA about the timing of the current draft law. In particular, she pointed to the 48-hour period, which is not included in an agreed rule but at least in an agreement. There are also some articles in the draft before us that are urgent, but Mr Depooster pointed out that this had been known since the summer of 2020 and said that, in her opinion, this was not done in time. She also mentioned that articles were also included that were not urgent. She referred to the FAGG for which an audit is required, and stated that this could be discussed later. About prescribing the flu shot by the pharmacist, she raised the question of writing the Minister of April 2021 to the professional associations about vaccination in the offina itself. She also mentioned that chapter 2 should have come sooner. There are also many practical questions about the GMP entity regime. Mr Depooger also wondered whether a reference to the EEA's manual would suffice. She noted that there is not enough time to check all this now for the pharmaceutical sector in Belgium. On behalf of Ecolo-Groen, I myself have asked a number of substantive questions about flu vaccines. Are we considering getting the pharmacists vaccinated? With regard to the continuing training of health professionals, I have mentioned that many of them have indeed received training, including at a distance. Maybe that's why this rule came a little late. On behalf of the PS, Mr Hervé Rigot mentioned that some very important measures were involved. The prescription of flu vaccines by pharmacists will relieve the pressure on doctors and accelerate the vaccination process. He asked if there was any consultation with the pharmacists. Mr Dominiek Sneppe van Vlaams Belang joined the comments of the N-VA on the late distribution of the bill. It asked a number of concrete questions about the inspections of the FAGG remotely. Under Article 5, she had a number of questions about pharmacists who prescribe the vaccine. Wouldn't this interfere with the relationship between the less mobile elderly and their general practitioner? She also asked for a timetable for the evaluation and wanted to know whether there would be a conflict of interest when the pharmacist fulfils both the role of prescriber and the role of giver. Mr Caroline Taquin of the MR supported the draft law because it concerns urgent and temporary measures. Colleague Nathalie Muylle of CD&V joined Taquin. She said it is important that the extension of the prescription of the flu vaccine is included in this design. This is accompanied by a wide-ranging evaluation, as well as a commitment to involve different sectors and actors in primary care. She also mentioned the importance of involving the Communities, because they play an important role in the vaccination strategy, as well as primary care. She also mentioned the importance of considering the future role and function of the pharmacist. Mr De Caluwe van Open Vld noted that the BFSA's controls would be made more efficient and wondered whether this method would be preserved even after the corona crisis. He also mentioned that a number of comments by the Council of State were refuted in the explanatory memorandum and stated that it was left to the King to follow a prescriptive protocol. The Council of State wonders why the legislator does not determine the lines of that Prescription Protocol. Furthermore, the pharmacist has no access to the medical file. He asked for some clarification about this. Mrs Vanpeborgh van Vooruit felt that consideration should also be given to the slopes for dispensing vaccines to pharmacists, as a number of colleagues have already mentioned. Mr Warmoes of the PVDA-PTB endorsed the comments on the late submission of the draft. He expressed a number of concerns about influenza vaccination in particular. Last year it seemed as if flu vaccines were too short for the risk groups. He asked a few questions about that, as did the central registration system. Minister Vandenbroucke has rejected or replied to a large number of comments. I'll run them over. He explained that the late submission of the draft was due to a delay at the Council of State and a problem at the printing works. He understood the displeasure of certain members, but felt that the articles that were discussed for discussion were not very complex and could therefore already be discussed. He did not think it appropriate to hold a very wide-ranging debate on each article. Mrs Depoorter referred to an evaluation of the functioning of the FAGG, but Chapter 1 of the draft law deals solely with the fees to be collected for remote inspections. It is therefore not a permanent change of policy, but a necessary one as a result of the corona crisis. For example, the inspection of a site in Italy where COOVID-19 vaccines are produced because of COOVID-19 could only be done remotely. The legislation already provides that in such cases all information can be requested at a distance, but it is not intended to make remote inspections the standard. The inspection on the preparation of official medicinal products referred to by Mrs Depoorter is still ongoing. The GMP entity is a technical definition that should allow for the correct reimbursement of remote inspections. The next flu vaccination campaign will be discussed at the next Health Ministerial Conference. Minister Vandenbroucke can already report that it will be proposed to launch the vaccination campaign on 15 October 2021. Many more vaccines were ordered in 2021 than for the 2020 campaign. The campaign will not be phased out by 2021, but will be open to all. After the 2.9 million vaccines by 2020, an order of 3.78 million vaccines will now be delivered. The vaccines will be ordered from different companies. The increase in the number of vaccines and the absence of phasing should allow for a much larger vaccination campaign. The Minister is increasingly convinced that the pharmacist should be given his own place in the care landscape. He has faith in that profession for prescribing the vaccine. The Minister considers that there is no need for the pharmacist to have access to the patient's GMD in order to be able to prescribe the flu vaccine. The pharmacist can see in the pharmaceutical file whether vaccines have been prescribed to the patient in the past. He also pointed out that certain serious side effects, such as anaphylactic shock, were extremely rare in the case of a flu vaccine. No serious adverse reaction was reported in 2020. This is an additional reason why the concern about the prescription by the pharmacist is unnecessary. The issue of the administration of the vaccine by the pharmacist is rather delicate. This discussion can be held at the Inter-Ministerial Conference. The Minister himself has no real objection to it. He felt, however, that the subject deserved a different debate. The replies and the additional replies mainly concerned the timing of the vote on the draft law, which was therefore postponed to Monday 12 July 2021. I'll be right back on that. Mrs Dominiek Sneppe van het Vlaams Belang asked what advice the Minister had obtained. To that question, the Minister replied that the preliminary draft law has been widely circulated in the healthcare sector. The necessary consultation with the healthcare sector has taken place. The Minister also reiterated that the Council of State confirmed the urgency of the draft law. Furthermore, the question of fees to the FAGG must be dealt with as a matter of urgency. One cannot just select articles that one finds interesting and leave out the rest. Mrs Vanpeborgh added that the explanatory memorandum to the draft law gave a clear justification for the urgency. It was then agreed to vote a few days later. On 12 July 2021, Mr Bacquelaine had another question for the MR to obtain some clarifications on the scope of Article 5, which allows pharmacists to prescribe the flu vaccine. The pharmacist may therefore prescribe a product that he sells himself. The speaker understood that this possibility was offered in the 2020 flu season, but the situation was exceptional at the time and the general practitioners were over-questioned. It is therefore not certain that this situation will be the same again in the 2021 flu season. He would therefore have liked the explanatory memorandum to clearly state that it is an exceptional and temporary measure. In addition, he proposed that a clear procedure be established for the prescription of the vaccine by the pharmacist. Mrs. Fonck of cdH indicates that prescribing the flu vaccine is a sensitive issue. She wondered whether the Minister had properly consulted both doctors and pharmacists and what that agreement looked like. Mrs Sneppe mentioned that the measure provided for in Article 5 absolutely must be evaluated. The Minister has absolutely emphasised that the measure in Article 5 is exceptional and temporary. Mr Bacquelaine has rightly drawn attention to this. As regards the risk of conflict of interest, the Minister states that the financial advantage for the pharmacist is not very high. More importantly, the pharmacist here is regarded as a health care provider with a deontological responsibility. The pharmacist must be aware of the target groups of the campaign. It would also be interesting to draw up precise instructions for the pharmacists. If there are suspicions of abuse, checks may be carried out by the RIZIV. In the first instance, however, the Minister wishes to inform the pharmacist correctly about his task in the vaccination campaign. We then proceeded to the Rule-by-Rule discussion and the votes on Monday. On Chapter 1, Article 2, Mrs Depoorter of N-VA tabled an amendment. That is Amendment No 1, tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 1 and the aim is to Mrs Fonck also wants the Minister to motivate the urgency of the article. Mrs Sneppe supports these amendments because she did not think the answer was sufficient in an earlier meeting. The Minister considers that the article provides a purely technical description of the GMP entity. The Minister is still asking about the intentions of the applicant of the amendment. He hoped that the amendment did not result from lobbying by the pharmaceutical industry. Mr Depoorter clarifies that she has tabled the amendment because she is concerned that the impact of Article 2 has not been properly assessed, as the Council of State also pointed out. She confirmed that the amendment had nothing to do with lobbying. The Minister confirms that the Council of State asked questions about the urgency of the provision. The Minister replied that the Rule must enter into force as a matter of urgency. The first amendment was rejected by 11 votes to 5 with 1 abstention. The unchanged Article 12 was adopted by 11 votes to 3, with 3 abstentions. No comments were made on Article 3. It was adopted with 14 votes in favour and 3 abstentions. No comments were made on Article 4. This was also adopted by 14 votes in favour and 3 abstentions. There were no comments on Chapter 2, Article 5. The Rule was adopted with 15 votes in favour and two abstentions. On Chapter 3, Article 6, Mr Depoorter tabled an amendment No. The purpose of Article 2 is to replace it. The applicant explains that the proposed deletion of Article 2 also requires the amendment of the Article with regard to its entry into force. The amendment was deleted by 11 votes to 5 and 1 abstention and the unchanged Article 6 was adopted by 14 votes to three abstentions. Title 3, Chapter 1, Article 7 The Rule was adopted unanimously. Chapter 2, Article 8, no comments, adopted by 16 votes to 1. All the articles submitted to the committee were adopted by name with 13 votes in favour and 4 abstentions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip120x.u17	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the discussion in the Committee on Social Affairs was clearly shorter. My oral report will be as well. The meeting of the Social Affairs Committee took place on 12 July. Title 4 of the draft law was then discussed. This title concerns the administrative bodies of the sickness funds and the national associations. It is about the existence of regional companies and mutual assistance between mutual societies, but it is also about the consequences of mergers of the sickness funds. It is actually about the implementation of a previously concluded future pact and the sixth state reform. This was once in a draft law, which was not implemented for political reasons by the previous government and which is now being implemented. Several Members have asked questions to the Minister for Social Affairs. These questions mainly concerned cooperation with the regions. The Minister has confirmed in his replies that the urgency of these provisions is necessary for the renewal of the administrative bodies of the mutualities, for which a call to candidates must be made. Following the discussion of this draft law, it was adopted by the majority. The N-VA, the PVDA and the PTB have abstained.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip120x.u18	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have listened carefully to Mrs Creemers' correct report. She started the discussion we had around 48 hours. The N-VA group had and still has difficulty with the fact that such important text arrives in our mailbox a few hours before the discussion. We have found a compromise whereby all other activities were put aside on Monday to discuss this important text again and then vote on it. It's a pattern. I also note today that I have done Evergem-Brussels-Evergem-Brussels. I thought we agreed to discuss this bill tomorrow. It has been decided that we are doing it now, so in the end, of course, we are present. I am just wondering what the green fraction of my ecological footprint is like at the moment. I do not think it is very correct in that way. In your report, you mentioned the urgency. What's urgent today? How come the design is urgent? That is also what you mentioned in your report. Why is it urgent? In April last year we had the same discussion as today, in the summer of 2020 we repeated that discussion and in the autumn we found a back door through old legislation that allowed the patient to get the flu shot at the pharmacy. Now we have a legal framework that is necessary. According to the Minister, it stuck with the Council of State and there were a number of other problems. However, between the arrival of the Minister in October 2020 and today, there was enough time to address this issue, which occurred last year. By the way, the N-VA had already submitted a bill to deal with this. Is the permanent training urgent? It will be good for healthcare providers to have legal certainty in this area as well. This way they can go into the recess without having to think that they still have to get the accreditation points and plan it on weekends and evenings. Of course, you quoted it, certain formations can continue through webinars, while others could not be organized. Healthcare providers have been very busy and difficult. Maybe in their scarce spare time they went looking for protective equipment to be able to work again the next day. We must effectively do something about these formations, and that is why we have also supported and will support that article. I come to the urgency of the FAGG. It is a matter of urgency to be able to collect fees for remote inspections. Paybacks, so it's about the State Treasury. We want to make sure that we can recover that money from those companies and that they pay. We don't want to argue about that. Nevertheless, I have a folder full of disputes about the FAGG by managers who cannot reach the agency, not even by telephone. How urgent is it to arrange the fees if the operation is not optimal? I have said it many times and I keep repeating it: before we want to arrange fees or inspections at a distance, we need to ensure that the organisation within the FAGG is optimal, that inspectors can effectively carry out their work, e.g. answer their phones or an email when an entrepreneur tries to reach them. In the framework of the quick tests, for example, the waiting list has been solved because it is implemented in a different way. But that waiting list existed a few weeks ago. You can say that the rules on fees are urgent, but I do not think that the budget will be corrected by the collection of these fees. However, if this measure reassures you, we can understand that. More important than what these fees could mean in the budget is the discussion about the form of this article. As an N-VA, we continue to have problems with the legal uncertainty you are threatening to collapse into, with the fact that this purple-green government does not profile itself as a reliable partner for companies. If we then table an amendment, it will be voted down, which is, of course, the right of the majority. However, we would like to point out once again in this plenary that a problem is being created here. The companies do not know what the impact will be of what you impose. You have indeed amended the article on the basis of the comments of the Council of State. You say that it is a functional unit that can be inspected in one day - I do not know if every inspector works equally quickly, but come to the spot or at a distance. I'm gonna keep having a problem with those remotely. You just mentioned the vaccines of AstraZeneca in Italy that need to be tested. I really don't know how you want to have an overpressure checked in a sterile space remotely. I don't know. Perhaps that is possible, but in principle I think that this is very difficult not to have any disputes about this either, but this aside. The verification can therefore be carried out either on the spot or remotely. It is subject to the manufacturing authorisation referred to in Article 12a of the Law of 25 March. But then, the estimation of how many functional units are covered by one manufacturing permit depends on technical and practical reasons that are calculated on the basis of the most up-to-date available guidelines. I see them scratching in the hair at Pfizer headquarters in New York and wondering what are the most up-to-date guidelines available in Belgium. If we want to be a reliable partner, we refer to those most up-to-date guidelines. That's just not in here. The same applies for the technical and practical reasons. That's the same thing. It might be Johnson and Johnson. They're based in New Brunswick. Ladies and gentlemen, let us remain serious. Our country is a pharma valley and we are going to impose these pharma valley rules with such half texts. We are going to tell you how the FAGG can carry out an inspection, with the current available guidelines and figure it out. The people at the head of these big multinationals have to figure it out. Even worse, the CEOs of small SMEs, who have very few staff, who do not have a full legal service to look at what these current guidelines are in Belgium, they really have to figure it out all by themselves. And they can't even call the FAGG to ask what's going on, because they don't answer the phone because they're too busy. Mr. Secretary, it's true, isn't it? I think that this is really something that we should be paying attention to. I therefore suggest that you reconsider our amendment. Let us retake this article after the summer recess and look at it thoroughly, because that will allow us to give legal certainty to our companies. I totally agree with the prescription by the pharmacists. That won't surprise you, because I have tabled a bill that is based on it. My bill allows the patient at the pharmacy to pick up the syringe and then go to the doctor to have it put up. This will save time for the patient, but it will increase the accessibility of the flu syringe in particular. After all, only less than half of the patients were vaccinated. We need to boost that number. I regret, however, that you have not gone all the way. According to the legislation, the pharmacist can assess the patient's age, but not his chronic medication. You are introducing an age restriction, while the chronic medication was used to determine the target groups for covid vaccination. If that is what we want, then this can also be done perfectly through the pharmaceutical file, through the directives that have been passed on to the mutualities. In this way, the pharmacist could also trace the patients at risk, by checking who belongs or does not belong, according to the necessary directives. This also saves time for those at risk, who are often still active. That might be an idea for the autumn on which you can continue to work. Mr Fonck has tabled an amendment to which she does not wish to refer to it as a regulation, but a removal. I understand that concern. Such concerns always play a role. However, as I have heard, this is not applicable and it must be done effectively by means of a regulation. I really have faith in the fellow pharmacists about the correct course of events. Besides, it's fully traceable through the computer systems. The health insurance funds will certainly see to it. Minister, we have not changed our minds. We have retabled our amendments. We shall abstain in the final vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip120x.u19	Madam President, Minister, I would like to join my colleague in regret that the text was only received the day before at around 5:00 p.m. or 6:00 p.m. to be discussed the next morning. Even if it doesn't have a lot of articles, it's too short. You said you regretted it and you also mentioned printing problems. I don't understand too much because it seems to me that we are working completely in digital. If we want to work and look at the issues seriously, I think we need to proceed differently. These are important points that need to be discussed. Was it such an emergency? Was it not also a lack of anticipation? I am thinking here, for example, of accreditation which will not be subject to the same rules, as many health professionals have not been able to attend their training. We could have anticipated that. The covid crisis has been going on for more than a year. Why then want to take this step quickly and in this way? The answers were not satisfactory, I believe. As far as the substance of the discussion is concerned, I would especially like to speak about the flu vaccine that can be delivered by pharmacists. In itself, I believe that this is indeed a good measure, in the sense that it facilitates the delivery of this vaccine. The patient should not seek his prescription from the general practitioner, go to the pharmacy and then return to the general practitioner. So it's positive. I still have many questions to ask about the precise organization of this year's influenza vaccination campaign. Remember last year's big worries. Belgium then planned 2.9 million vaccines and, at one point, it was decided that all persons aged 50 and over could obtain them from the pharmacist without going to the doctor. But, quickly, there were stock failures and many at-risk patients who used to pick up their vaccine around October 15 came back from the pharmacist. As a general practitioner, I can tell you that many patients who were vaccinated each year did not receive their vaccine. Finally, sometimes it was available in December or January. It was really a problem. And then, we were lucky in bad luck, that is, there was no influenza epidemic last year. But we don't know what to expect this year. Will there be an outbreak of influenza or not? Will it be lighter because people still apply the barrier gestures, with the wearing of the mask - everything that prevents the transmission of the covid also prevents the transmission of the flu - or should we expect a flu epidemic perhaps a little stronger? Some experts have told us this in the Covid-19 Commission. There was no flu wave in the past year, and therefore the immunity acquired is lower in the population. We still have 4,000 patients at risk in Category 1A according to the criteria of the Higher Health Council. In my view, it is still unclear how to avoid what happened last year. Will the pharmacist be able to deliver to everyone at the same time, or will there be a certain phaseage with a priority for groups at risk to be vaccinated? Four million vaccines have been ordered, if I have the right number in mind. But some people may be more motivated to get vaccinated. Almost everyone got vaccinated against covid-19. In any case, vaccination rates are very high. If everyone is motivated to get vaccinated, then risk groups may experience the same problem again as last year. You said, during the debates in committee, I think last week, that there was an interdepartmental conference on the subject today, if I did remember what you said. I wanted to know if you already have more details and if you can reassure me at this level in relation to patients at risk.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip120x.u20	Madam Chair, Minister, like many colleagues, I regret the short time you have given us in committee to assess the scope of this bill. It is a tote text, as we have already seen a lot – perhaps too much – where there are technical elements, measures that we could support, but also measures that we believe require further investigation, or in any case more thorough reflection. With regard to the late hour, but also because many things have been said by some of my colleagues, I will limit my intervention to two important aspects of this bill. One is rather positive and the other is rather negative. Firstly, we are very much in favour of the provisions concerning the "neutralisation" (as mentioned in your project) of the obligations of continuing training during the health crisis. It is indeed more than opportune to be able to release the healthcare professionals concerned from this famous obligation of continuing training for the years 2020 and 2021. Without calling into question the need to update each other's medical knowledge, or even the requirement for ongoing training that will make it necessary to maintain accreditation as a professional, we share the reasons that you mentioned in the bill. Thus, confinement, organisation in accordance with health measures or the availability of competent personnel led to the postponement or cancellation of certain training courses. It would now be totally unfair to punish the providers concerned, in particular for reasons completely beyond their control. I also have to go back to influenza vaccination by pharmacists, which is a step that should not be taken lightly. It is true that we would have liked to have been able to explore the positive aspects, such as easier access to vaccination. It is not necessary to go to the doctor for prescription, in addition to vaccination. However, the negative aspects should have been addressed in committee, such as the fact that the pharmacist can prescribe a vaccine without having access to the patient's medical record – without being able to verify the risk of an allergic reaction, for example. There are still some nebulous aspects about which, Minister, you have not been able to answer us in committee – such as that of professional civil liability, since it is a medical act. I am also thinking of the risk of a conflict of interest, since in this case the prescriber is also the seller. For all these reasons, Mr.Minister, ladies and gentlemen, my party will abstain from voting on this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip120x.u21	Madam President, I would like to refer to some of the points I made in the committee debate. Firstly, I would like to thank both reporters on the one hand for their short and strong report and on the other for their upholstered and nuanced report. Two models in their genre, I'd say. I would simply like to focus on the debate on the role of pharmacist. I think that all the other issues have already been dealt with extensively in committee. The prescription of the flu vaccine by the pharmacist is not new, but is also absolutely not evident. Mr Bacquelaine spoke about this in detail in committee, in a relevant manner. Mrs Sneppe also spoke about it. Allow me to re-examine the arguments. As Mrs Creemers pointed out in her report, we want many people who are eligible to be vaccinated against the flu. Then it's actually unproductive for you to tell people to go to the doctor first, then to the pharmacist, and then to the doctor again. That is both unproductive and cumbersome. The question was asked whether, for the sake of a kind of self-interest, wrong behaviour would arise among pharmacists. First of all, I would like to stress that this measure is exceptional and temporary. However, he is responsible and legitimate, and I think there are sufficient guarantees to ensure that there is no misprescription of pharmacists. First of all, we approach the pharmacist as a healthcare professional, as a care provider, and I think we can do the same. If the pharmacist contributes to identifying risk groups and addressing people from the risk groups, I think that is a very good thing. Would there be a risk of misprescription based on financial incentives? Allow me to doubt that a little bit. I think that's kind of theoretical. The vaccine costs €16.55 and is largely reimbursed for the risk groups. But also those who belong to the risk groups will pay a brake charge of 4.08 euros, which will be reduced to 2.45 euros for those entitled to the increased allowance. So there won't be many people for their fun buying that vaccine from the pharmacist. Even those who have to pay little must pay something for it, and those who do not belong to the risk groups must pay EUR 16.55 for it. The pharmacist himself earns about five euros on delivery. I don't think that in itself is a very strong incentive for misbehavior. The pharmacist is, of course, obliged to follow the risk groups defined by the High Health Council and to be careful, in other words to follow the instructions that apply to this vaccination campaign. I have told Mr Bacquelaine that we will, of course, ensure that pharmacists are well aware of this. I also told him that, as far as I am concerned, in addition to that proactive element, the pharmacists will be well informed, and they will be reminded of how this campaign is organized. Firstly, we will evaluate this measure and we will have this evaluation carried out immediately in the first half of 2022. Secondly, since it is about prescribing behaviour in the classical arsenal of the RIZIV, it is possible to pick out and control excessive prescribing behaviour, and to call people to account. It is also possible to carry out a statistical analysis on this subject. The financial incentives do not really encourage people to commit major fraud through the pharmacy, or by the pharmacist. The pharmacist is a care professional who has the vocation to do well, and if he encourages many people who belong to the risk groups to be vaccinated, that is an excellent thing. But we will indeed evaluate this. We have instruments at our disposal to monitor and even punish any misbehaviour. I would also like to confirm that we have ordered a large stock for the coming flu vaccination season, much more than last year: 3.77 million vaccines have been reserved. I insisted on clarifying this, Madam President, because several Members had made relevant comments on this during the debate. On the Social Affairs section, there is one more element, although they have not been asked for it anymore. After the debate, I had the feeling that I might have been a little incomplete. A few people, for example Mrs Van Peel and Mrs De Block, have asked me whether the possibility of sending people from the federations into the administrative bodies of the sickness funds would be used effectively, and whether there was any guarantee of that. I explained that with this draft we are removing a ban. So there is a possibility. I should perhaps have added that I have taken three royal decisions this week which, under the national federations, create the right to appoint a representative in the general assembly and the board of directors of a sickness fund. A sickness fund cannot therefore refuse the appointment of a representative of the Landsbond. I am in explicit consultation with the sickness funds and the national associations of the sickness funds. In fact, I am quite confident that the national federations will actually use the opportunity created to delegate someone to the administrative bodies of the sickness funds. This is indeed important for strengthening governance. Mrs Vanrobaeys has also mentioned a number of elements relating to the regional mutual assistance companies which I will not repeat here. This was indeed a diverse set of provisions. They were all urgent, but for the sake of clarity and to return to another aspect of the debate, there is no provision that the Council of State said was not pressing. There were such provisions in the preliminary draft, but we removed the provisions for which the Council of State did not accept the urgency. Madam President, so far there have been a number of reactions to the report of this plenary session.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip120x.u22	Mr Minister, you have mainly answered a number of questions that have been raised in committee, but not the questions that I have asked today. You have explained that more vaccines have been ordered and that the pharmacists can identify patients at risk, for example if they see a person taking diabetes medication. I think that is positive and I hope that they will encourage those people to be vaccinated, but it is not clear to me whether there will be a phasing or whether the pharmacist will give everyone the vaccine. How can we guarantee that the risk patients will not be in the cold just like last year? That is a concern to which you have not replied.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip120x.u23	Mrs Merckx, that is true, but I honestly thought I had dealt with that in committee. There are risk groups but no phasering, unlike last year. This means that all people in the risk groups can present themselves in an undefined order. It's easier. My analysis of what happened during the previous flu season is that this rather precise phaser has given rise to a behavior that has caused temporary shortages and great anxiety, while we were finally looking at enough vaccines throughout the campaign. So we now think it is safer not to phase and simply let all those who belong to the risk groups come from 15 October. We may be wrong, but we think it's safer that way. We believe that it is better to avoid such phenomena. Since we order more than 900,000 extra vaccines, we also assume, of course, that the risk of bottlenecks is less. We will have to evaluate this, but the methodology is a little different from last year, and I think it is better.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip120x.u24	Not only are there patients at risk, there are many young and healthy people who want a flu vaccine and can get it from the pharmacist. My fear is that there is more awareness of vaccination, that people are more motivated to be vaccinated and that there is no priority for at-risk patients anymore. I'm afraid so, although more vaccines have been ordered. I think it's a long shot. As part of the covid vaccination, we identified the patients at risk. Personally, I think that is a good thing. All these people have been alerted and I am sorry that this will not happen again. It is the individual general practitioner who has to inform the risk patient, just like the pharmacist. However, there are also many patients at risk who do not know that they are at risk. Now they may know about the covid vaccination, but why don't they all get a letter? Why don't we get these people vaccinated as a matter of priority? A flu epidemic can also lead to thousands of deaths every year and can overload hospitals. We have just learned how important it is to prevent this, even if the problem is much less serious than in the case of a covide epidemic. I am sorry that we are not really taking lessons from this and we are going to gamble a little bit, although we are ordering some more vaccines, which is positive.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip120x.u25	Madam President, Mrs Merckx, you are making an interesting suggestion to use the mechanism that we have now used to send centralised invitations to patients at risk for influenza vaccination. We do need to think about that. Further discussions are planned with the pharmacists, even tomorrow. After all, implementing decisions are still needed. A number of elements still need to be clarified, but we are simply laying the legislative basis here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip120x.u26	I will not ask questions more often in future, because I will get answers to questions I have not asked or which I have asked in committee without repeating them here. When I asked you about a timetable for the evaluation, you said that there would certainly be an evaluation, but you apparently did not have a specific timetable in mind. I am glad that you have now said that it will be evaluated in the first half of 2022. I'm gonna have to apply that tactic a little bit more, not repeat things to get answers anyway. When I ask questions, I usually don't get an answer. I thank you for this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip120x.u27	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip120x.u28	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2097/5) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2097/5) The bill has 13 articles. The draft law has 13 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip120x.u29	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will take place at a later date on the amendments and articles that have been adopted and on the whole.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip120x.u30	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Ellen Samyn, Frank Toventors, Pieter De Spiegeleer, Barbara Pas, Steven Creyelman, Nathalie Dewulf. The Committee on Mobility, Public Enterprises and Federal Institutions proposes to reject this motion for a resolution. (1976/2) The Committee on Mobility, Public Enterprises and Federal Institutions proposes to reject this motion for a resolution. (1976/2) In accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary session will decide on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and possibly the authors. Pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary shall decide on this proposal for rejection after hearing the rapporteur and, where appropriate, the proposers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip120x.u31	Madam Chair, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip120x.u32	Unfortunately, reports of children being left in the car appear every year. In normal temperatures, it can end well, but not when the sun shines hard. 81 % of the parents who leave their child in the car would do so out of oblivion, mostly because they are engaged in routine actions. 11 % would leave their child in full consciousness to quickly do an errand. Too often it is underestimated how fast a car warms up in hot weather. Whatever the cause of leaving a child, it is life-threatening and the consequences are sometimes dramatic. Because of the lower water reserves, a child reacts very differently to heat than an adult body. The temperature of a child's body rises three to five times faster than an adult's body. For example, overheating in a child can happen quickly on days when it is barely 22 outside. A test by the Flemish Automobilistenbond showed that after six hours the temperature of a car can reach as much as 50°. Only yesterday, two small children were rescued from a warm and closed car in the Netherlands thanks to the attention of a passerby. Even though the summer has not really started yet, it should not have lasted much longer, according to the emergency services, given the condition of the children. A drama was avoided. This could also be avoided with a mandatory alarm system in child seats. Colleagues, the proposal calls on the government to continue to work on this legislative term with a legal obligation to use child seats with a warning system in vehicles, for all children under four years of age. Such a mandatory system will report when a child is left alone in a vehicle and thus alert the owner, bystanders or emergency services so that a heat stroke or even death can be prevented by overheating. Moreover, the obligation does not necessarily have to become an expensive item of expenditure for parents. Many initiatives have already been taken by the car seat industry in this respect. Various systems are already available on the market, whether or not combined with an alarm on the smartphone. The automotive sector itself assumes its responsibility with regard to child detection systems. More and more manufacturers themselves provide a standard built-in warning system in their new car models. We see an increase in attention to the risk of overheating in a vehicle in many European countries. Italy was the first country to take concrete action against such accidents in 2019. Belgium cannot fail to do so. It seems to us more than logical that such measures should also be introduced at our disposal. I would like to return to some of the comments made during the committee's discussion. We are aware of the potential additional cost to young families and therefore propose in our resolution that, when purchasing the system, a one-off allowance of EUR 100, for example, should be offered to the person concerned. The Flemish interest is certainly not in favour of systems of fines, which is why the proposal is primarily concerned with a rewarding and encouraging concession. As far as the high fine is concerned, the difference between the fine and the price of the system must of course remain large enough, otherwise the risk will be taken not to install it. In any case, our party wants to act in the first place as an encouragement and the government is free to decide on the concession itself. As far as we are concerned, it may even amount to 100 percent of the price. We therefore deliberately leave the necessary room for manoeuvre in the proposal. In our proposal we also underline the lack of figures, because neither in Europe nor in Belgium there are figures. It would therefore be useful to provide for a system to record the number of children left in the car, as is the case in the United States, for example. It is rather arrogant to think that, because there is no figures because nothing is recorded, the problem, so to speak, does not exist. Fortunately, it is not very common and these are rather exceptional events. But the remark that preventive stairs need to be secured does not go up. It's about the carelessness of leaving a child in a vehicle. We would also like to pay more attention to the dangers of leaving a child in a vehicle and therefore urge parents or those who supervise young children to pay more attention to the dangers by means of sensitisation, television spots and advertising campaigns. As regards the point that this can be settled at European level, it is precisely because the EU is failing to take this initiative. It is precisely for this reason that Italy has taken an initiative. If the norm becomes that a particular initiative can be taken by the EU, then a lot of proposals can be wiped off the table. I suppose that argument was a fool's erratic reason not to approve the proposal. May I point out, moreover, that a series of proposals have already been adopted in the Committee on Mobility, which apparently did not need to be regulated at European level? Only it depends more on the hand that the proposal has written. There were indeed some childhood diseases in Italy at the beginning, but we can see that things are going well there. Moreover, these childhood diseases are a perfect example for us not to take over those mistakes. We can learn from it and do it better. It is not because it was unclear there in the initial phase, that it relieves us of our responsibility and that we should put the problem aside. It is not because something is not going smoothly elsewhere that it relieves us of our responsibility to do well. Colleagues, I deeply regret that opinions could not be requested from various organisations and associations of interests. They could have been a nice addition to our initiative. However, during the debate in committee several speakers indicated that they wanted more information. Unfortunately, some members of the majority decided not to ask for opinions. The proposal was therefore voted down without a twist. That is and will remain a missed opportunity. In tomorrow's vote, I hope that common sense will prevail and that the majority parties, who are always full of road safety and the fact that each victim is too many, will subordinate their party political motives to the prevention of young victims. I therefore hope for broad support for our proposal so that we can intervene in the future in good time when a baby or toddler is forgotten in the car and dramas can be avoided. It would be shameful and even irresponsible for the parties to place the cordon sanitary above the interests and safety of a child.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip120x.u33	No one can speak any more. No other speaker may speak. The vote on the proposal to reject this motion for a resolution will take place at a later stage. The vote on the motion to reject this motion for a resolution will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip120x.u34	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Sophie Rohonyi, François De Smet. The Committee on the Economy, Consumer Protection and the Digital Agenda proposes to reject this motion for a resolution. (1426/3) The Committee on Economics, Consumer Protection and Digital Agenda proposes to reject this proposal for a resolution. (1426/3) In accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary session will decide on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and possibly the authors. Pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary shall decide on this proposal for rejection after hearing the rapporteur and, where appropriate, the proposers. The rapporteur is Mr Vicaire, who refers to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip120x.u35	Madam President, first of all I would like to thank my colleagues and, in particular, the group leaders who have agreed to put this text on the agenda. If I have allowed myself to insist on this in the Conference of Presidents, it is simply because the situation in the night world has become untenable, so untenable that we urgently need to make at least two commitments to it. Firstly, a health protocol must be drawn up with him which will allow him to resume safely, if possible as early as September, knowing that such a resumption does not improvise, that it requires several weeks of preparation. Secondly, we must be able to continue, as long as necessary, the current economic measures. It is these two simple, yet vital commitments that this motion for a resolution calls on the government. In the absence of these opportunities, it is a whole sector and its thousands of workers that are at risk of bankruptcy, it is thousands of families that face a risk of insecurity, while these men and women have always been responsible and constructive, but also in solidarity with other sectors. I remember, ladies and gentlemen, more than a year ago, our House was voting on a plan to support the Horeca. At that time, I was very pleased to be able to support this plan, because this sector was coming out of months of containment that had had the effect of emptying its crates. In this sense, I find it difficult to understand why the night sector would not benefit from the same attention of the government today, especially since the health situation is much more favourable today, but also and above all because testing and vaccination are now available to the entire population – including the youngest, who are coming out the most. I often hear the government say – and rightly – that our country is in the lead in vaccination. But what is the point of having a high rate of vaccination if, in the end, we do not reap the benefits by framing the recovery of the last sector to be at a standstill today. This recovery must of course take place taking into account the epidemiological situation or the evolution of the variants. Our request is not to reopen the nightclubs this weekend. On the other hand, we are asking the government to be able to develop solutions in consultation with the sector, to define protocols with it, to ensure that the government finally addresses it at this Friday's Consultation Committee. Next Monday, we will vote for the cooperation agreement which specifies the additional arrangements for the covid safe ticket for pilot projects or mass events. Why could this safe covid ticket not be used for nightclubs, as we do, for example, in France and as we see for festivals of 5,000 people? In order to clarify our work in committee, we have asked for a whole series of written opinions, in particular those from representatives of the sector. It was very clear from this that this framed recovery of the night world is an economic, social and health necessity. Why? Because the current situation is totally hypocritical. Concerts bringing together thousands of people are allowed. Our fellow citizens go to the discotheques which have reopened their doors in our neighbouring countries where the rate of vaccination is also much lower than in Belgium. Holidays are organized here and there, at home, at the neighbours', and bars are transformed all over Belgium into nightclubs without any respect for the barring gestures. The mayors of the big cities, who are particularly confronted with this hypocrisy, want to put an end to this by working with the sector on sanitary protocols. They have been working there for months, because they have understood that the night sector is part of a health solution, not a health problem. The epidemiologist Yves Coppieters, whom we all know, since he has, among other things, taken care to supervise the work of our Special Commission covid-19, goes in exactly the same direction and I really want to quote it: "We cannot continue to apply the principle of precaution pushed to the extreme for this sector. That makes no sense because the epidemic is now under control. You have to learn to live with this virus. We can't penalize the world of the night because of expectations. We must have the courage to do so, while being proportional to the risks." By the end of the third wave, the Prime Minister swore to us that the night sector would not remain closed one day too, but also that we were now in a risk management logic, where we would be able to live in spite of the virus. Ladies and gentlemen, I call on you today to be consistent with the Prime Minister's commitment. Let us be pragmatic and supportive, because today, as confirmed by the minister in charge of the independents in his written opinion, which we had asked in committee, the current economic aid is coming to an end. For most of them, the deadline is September 30, 2021. If we do not commit ourselves today to continue this aid until at least 31 December 2021, it is a whole sector of our economy that will collapse and will not recover. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I hope that you will support our motion for a resolution this time and thus put an end to the confusion in which these workers have been far too long. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip120x.u36	No one can speak any more. No other speaker may speak. The vote on the proposal to reject this motion for a resolution will take place at a later stage. The vote on the motion to reject this motion for a resolution will take place at a later date. We will continue our agenda tomorrow.
