ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic595x.u1	Thank you, Madam President. I will read my July question and have therefore been somewhat updated. On 12 July, FAO, WHO and UNICEF released the State of World Food Security and Nutrition Report. The report confirms that hunger has increased since 2014, and that in 2020 it affected 10 per cent of the world's population. The main causes identified in this report are the VOCID crisis, conflicts and climate change. In addition, the United Nations Summit on Food Systems was held in September 2021. Prior to the summit, a "unifying framework for the transformation of food systems" was drafted by more than 800 agricultural and civil society organisations calling on governments, businesses and civil society to put agroecology and organic farming on the agenda. This call is based on the fact that the concept of sustainable agriculture has been used in a very vague way and with varying intensity depending on the interest groups present in the negotiations. The call acknowledges the need for a transformation of global agri-food systems to address the growing climate emergency and environmental, socio-economic and health challenges that these systems generate. The call points out that progressive improvements to the current industrial model are not enough, but that a bold paradigm shift is needed to rethink our agri-food systems. To do so, the appeal focused on 13 key principles. Within this framework, among the recommendations made for governments, policy coherence and support for local and territorial markets in the production and supply of food from diversified agricultural systems are highlighted. What is your position on the conclusions of the summit as to their ability to initiate a real change in the trajectory of food systems? How was this summit prepared upstream at Belgian level? Did Belgium sign the call for a unifying framework for the transformation of food systems? The SOFI report recalls that food security is a major issue that requires exceptional means given the effects of the pandemic until 2030. What have you undertaken to reach the 15% budget supporting agriculture and food security within the total budget of Belgian cooperation, to which Belgium committed itself in 2018?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic595x.u2	The Summit was a historic occasion that brought together all States members of the United Nations and self-help groups from all over the world. As a result of the Summit, national dialogues were initiated in 147 countries. These dialogues lead to national paths, clear visions of what governments, in collaboration with the various parties present, expect from the food system by 2030. A single representative of each Member State could make a national declaration. The Flemish Minister of Agriculture, Hilde Crevits, in her capacity as National Convenor, made a national declaration. In this intervention, my ambition is to achieve a resilient, equitable, sustainable and healthy food system. That was, therefore, expressed, as was my wish for a full commitment to this transition. The importance of good follow-up to the Summit was stressed, as was the role of the Committee on World Food Security (CSA). I am aware that there have been some problems in the preparation of the Summit, such as the non-participation of some interested parties. However, the positive point is that this important issue has received international attention and that new initiatives have emerged from the Summit. We will now examine whether there are opportunities that Belgium can seize. The results and follow-up to the Summit will be discussed with our various partners – NGOs, Enabel, universities – within the Agriculture and Food Security platform. As for the call for a unified framework, this is not only within the mandate of development cooperation but also concerns the mandate of other regional and federal institutions. Multilateral coordination in electronic form will be organised to decide whether or not Belgium will sign this call. Efforts to reach 15 per cent of the development cooperation budget by supporting agriculture and food security are an objective that we pursue both in our bilateral and multilateral cooperation. Bilaterally, new programmes will be developed this year for, among others, the DRC and Niger. Both portfolios include a pillar focusing on the agricultural sector and enhancing food security. For multilateral organisations, this year the CGIAR budget almost doubled, from €2.5 million per year to €4 million per 2021. The WFP budget was also increased by €20.5 million for 2021. I also intend to increase the voluntary contribution to FAO in the years to come. Resilient agriculture, and climate-smart agriculture (CSA), is one of the three priorities of my climate policy with the sustainable management of biodiversity, ecosystems and sustainable urban economic growth. Let us also note the new thematic portfolio, whose Sahel will also provide a pillar around it. Finally, several projects and programmes are also being developed with our multilateral partners, including UNEP, CGIAR and UNCDF. They will focus on the three priorities of my climate policy
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic595x.u3	Minister, thank you for your answer. It is known that this type of important summit, in particular this one, is the place of active lobbies and that many false solutions, in agricultural terms, were defended upstream of and during the summit. I was somewhat surprised to learn that it was Mrs Crevits who represented Belgium in general, not that I do not trust Mrs Crevits' agricultural policy; but you, who know what agricultural work represents in the countries of the South, bring an important added value in a reflection on global food systems. As a result, I am perhaps even more confident in your vision of agriculture than what can be achieved at Belgian level, where there is still room for improvement. I understand that an intra-Belgian debate will take place to determine whether or not there is support for the unifying framework. I hope that you will weigh your weight with the vision that you have developed in your general policy note, to which we adhere perfectly, and that you will be heard from your Belgian colleagues to meet these challenges with the tools that are yours and that you are putting in place with our partners. Also, we encourage you to make your voice heard.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic595x.u4	Madam President, Minister, you recently announced on your foreign mission in the Jordan refugee camp Baqa'a that you would spend EUR 4.5 million on UNRWA, the UN Agency for Palestinian Refugees. This funding is in addition to the amount of EUR 7 million already earmarked for structural assistance that you announced earlier. You explained this breakdown of resources: EUR 3.5 million will be spent on education projects and EUR 1 million on emergency financial assistance for refugees living below the poverty line. In Baqa'a that would involve 5,000 Palestinians. You have also stressed that UNRWA needs more and more predictable funding. This UN organisation for the management of reception, education, health and social protection depends entirely on foreign donations and assistance. A few years ago, this organisation was the subject of a controversy about the abuse of power. As a result, Belgium and a number of other countries have suspended their funding. However, this funding was resumed in 2019 after the organisation's management had been replaced. In addition to the organisation itself, are other partners, such as NGOs, involved in the financing and management of these funds for Palestinian refugees? What role do the authorities of the partner countries in the Middle East play in this aid operation? Too often these authorities have a very reprehensible reputation, in particular those of the Gaza Strip. Let me return to a previous question about the resources you have allocated to humanitarian and structural aid for Palestinians, which you have already tendered. Is there any concrete control of the flow of funds and the use of resources? If so, can you clarify that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic595x.u5	Madam Chair, I thank colleagues for the flexibility they have shown to allow me to participate in the meeting of Committee P and Committee R, where there are a number of points to address. Madam Minister, you have repeatedly shown your solidarity with the Palestinian people, whether through humanitarian aid of EUR 8 million for Gaza or last May during the visit to Palestinian refugee camps in Lebanon and Jordan. During this visit, you expressed your support for the remarkable work of UNWRA, the United Nations Agency for Palestinian Refugees. As a result of the Agency's work, tens of thousands of refugees have access to education, health and basic social services. Madam Minister, on 28 September the European Parliament took a very worrying position. Indeed, by an amendment tabled by certain members of the liberal family - including members of the liberal family from Belgium - and supported by the largest political group, the European People's Party (EPP), the European Parliament's Budget Committee decided to suspend EUR 20 million of aid to UNRWA. This decision has yet to be confirmed or, hopefully, overturned at the next plenary session. However, since the positions taken by the Trump administration in 2018 and despite President Biden's turnaround, the United Nations Agency has been going through an unprecedented crisis, which calls into question its own survival. I would like to recall that Belgium has long been one of the most reliable partners of UNRWA and one of its major contributors. That is why I hope that all Belgian MEPs will oppose the suspension of this EUR 20 million aid. Given that the European Parliament's provisions run counter to the positions taken at home, can you confirm your support for UNRWA? Can you assure us that, whatever the European decision, it will not have an impact on Belgian policy towards Palestine? Are there any discussions at European level to ensure that the EU and its Member States will continue their financial support to the United Nations Agency?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic595x.u6	Madam President, Mrs Ponthier, Mr Flahaut, during my visit to Jordan and Lebanon, I myself saw the importance of UNRWA's support for the thousands of Palestinian refugees in the region. For these people, the organization is the only service provider they have. In Lebanon, in particular, the visits to the camps, which often exist for more than decades, have seized me very much. The importance of the organisation cannot be underestimated. As many as 5.7 million Palestinian refugees have been registered with the Agency. The organisation UNRWA was given its mandate in 1949 and was seen as a temporary solution after the Israeli-Palestinian war. However, in the absence of political solutions, their mandate will continue to be extended. In the absence of an authority that takes responsibility for this group, UNRWA is de facto also a substitute authority and thus provides stability in the region. The lack of predictable funding is therefore very much felt. It has a direct impact on the quality of education. For example, children told me about overcrowded classrooms, and the teachers let me know that they are only offered day contracts. Good education is crucial to offer young people a future perspective. That's why I choose to focus specifically on education. The projects financed will be managed exclusively by the Agency, without the involvement of NGOs, other UN organisations or public authorities. As with all humanitarian funding, there is no involvement of the local authority in the implementation and, moreover, the local authorities do not play any role in the organisations financed by Belgium. This specific project funding is in addition to the voluntary contribution of €7 million to the organisation's overall resources announced earlier in the year. This funding is part of a three-year commitment made by Belgian humanitarian aid to UNRWA. Thus, the organisation can count on a fixed contribution of €7 million for 2022 and 2023. These funds demonstrate Belgium's continued commitment to UNRWA and the Palestinian people. There are currently no plans to condition Belgian humanitarian aid to the Agency. UNRWA is a multilateral organisation with such control mechanisms. This was already explained at the May parliamentary session on flexible financing. The support to UNRWA was indeed frozen in 2019, but an audit by the UN Office of Internal Oversight Services excluded the allegations of fraud. The funding was renewed that same year. In reply to your question on previously allocated funds, I can tell you that EUR 8 million was allocated to the occupied Palestinian territory humanitarian fund. The Fund is managed by the UN Agency for the Coordination of Humanitarian Aid, OCHA. This fund has specific control mechanisms to monitor the effective and correct use of the funds, in addition to regular monitoring and evaluation of the projects. Through external consultations, there are also mechanisms to prevent and detect fraud and abuse Both UNRWA and OCHA are members of the International Aid Transparency Initiative, with which they commit to publishing data on projects and programmes. In addition, OCHA has developed an online financial tracking service where all money flows are clearly mapped. With regard to European funding, the European Parliament's Budget Committee voted for a top-up of EUR 60 million for UNWRA for a total contribution of EUR 142 million for 2022. There are discussions on the EUR 20 million suspension. According to the information I have at my disposal, UNRWA has since taken the necessary steps to meet the EU's concerns. The impact of the pandemic on refugees in refugee camps cannot be underestimated. I've been able to see that with my own eyes recently. Young people lose perspective and children pay the price of financial difficulties. We can't let that happen. UNRWA's work is extremely important in this context. Therefore, the Agency remains an important partner.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic595x.u7	Madam Secretary, thank you for your comprehensive answer. We naturally want to avoid a lack of transparency and independence about the financial assistance that our country and the international coalition makes available. That was the reason for my question. This vigilance to avoid that it is not the refugees who are being helped and the lack of control mechanisms for a number of financial transactions is, of course, absolutely necessary. The scandals surrounding development and humanitarian aid and the concerns already expressed in these have undermined credibility. That's problematic. I hope that you will agree with me that we must do everything we can to extend the control mechanisms to the maximum and to keep the finger on the wrist there. I hope we can find a partner in you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic595x.u8	Madam President, Minister, your answer reassures us as to how these grants are used. I would like to thank you because you guarantee the commitments made by Belgium and you confirm them for the following years. This is important for the Palestinian people. My question was also intended to launch an alarm signal about certain wishes in the European Parliament. I hear that we will be vigilant and that this will be relayed to the other colleagues who are participating in European meetings in order to return to a solution of solidarity with the Palestinian people. We must refrain from blocking subsidies on the pretext of various reasons, which are sometimes not.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic595x.u9	Madam Minister, along with your colleague Minister De Sutter, you announced some time ago the free e-tutorial on sexual and reproductive health and rights for all those active in international cooperation. Two courses are offered through the platform, Body & Rights, Themes and Body & Rights, Testimonials. Themes such as safe labor, sexual violence, child marriages and genital mutilation are discussed. The emphasis would be on young people and sexual minorities. There are also a number of diplomats who talk about their field experience. Those who have completed the course Body & Rights, Themes, would receive a certificate from Belgian Development Cooperation. On what basis are the courses based? How will sexual minorities be dealt with? What is the emphasis on? What are the issues of abortion and family planning addressed in the courses? Is this a neutral presentation of facts concerning abortion and the current challenges for women in the Third World? Finally, can the content of the course be submitted to committee members for scrutiny in writing or digitally?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic595x.u10	I am very proud to have been able to support the launch of the renewed online course together with fellow Minister De Sutter. Sexual and reproductive rights are and remain a priority in Belgian Development Cooperation. This is important not only for the good health of women, but also essential for achieving gender equality and promoting women's rights. There is a lot of expertise in Belgium on the subject, which is shared on the platform. Body & Rights is a free e-tutorial about sexual and reproductive health and rights. It covers various themes such as safe motherhood, sexually transmitted diseases and HIV, sexual violence, genital mutilation and family planning. The tutorial is based on scientific literature, with figures and recommendations from the World Health Organisation and UNFPA, a United Nations agency. These organisations assist countries worldwide in developing national guidelines for family planning and sexual reproductive health and rights. In addition, figures and guidelines are used by international organisations such as UNAIDS, UN Women, UNICEF, the Global Fund, Marie Stopes International and the Guttmacher Institute. Several experts from my administration, the Institute of Tropical Medicine, Enabel, Savaria, Group for the abolition of female genital mutilation, Plan Belgium, the University Centre for Development Cooperation, FOS et Médecins du Monde, are all involved in the content. The e-tutorial consists of seven modules, one of which deals with vulnerable groups. The module shows in a neutral way which vulnerable groups have a lack of access to health and their rights, e.g. adolescents. With regard to family planning and reproductive rights, the e-tutorial reports the impact on the lives of girls and women on the basis of WHO figures and guidelines. High maternal mortality rates and the consequences of unsafe abortion and family planning and contraception are highlighted to avoid unwanted pregnancies. It also calls for access to abortion to be made possible in a safe manner, and also points to the desire for children of people in developing countries and the need to treat infertility in couples. For all these subjects, scientific and UN sources are mentioned in the formation. As for your last question, the programme is free and open to everyone who signs up via the website bidandrights.be. The content of the course is therefore also accessible to all members of the committee here. The e-tutorial exists in Dutch, French and English. In this way, all actors in Belgian Development Cooperation and also employees abroad can take part in the training.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic595x.u11	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. Registration is therefore the message, so that all documentation and the content of the course can be accessed. You probably understand the angle of my question. With such a course one can go all directions, hence my concern. If you say that the course is based on scientific literature, I have to take your word for it. I'll definitely check that out. I am concerned that, as is often the case with such courses, it is a question of whether ideologically loaded gender studies and related people are involved, and not of solid scientificly based exact insights. As far as sexual minorities are concerned, too, it may be about an understanding such as the gender issue, which is promoted by certain pressure groups. I would prefer it to be about the oppression that Holebi's and transgenders usually experience in the countries you are talking about. We will check that too. You also say that the issue of abortion and family planning is brought to man or woman in an educational way. It seems to me that, as far as the neutral presentation of the facts is concerned, you are right. I follow your advice and at least check the course closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic595x.u12	Madam Minister, If it is a region of the world where recent Afghan events have not failed to provoke legitimate apprehension and questioning, it is indeed in the Sahel. In June, French President Emmanuel Macron announced the upcoming end of Operation Barkhane, stating, as early as July 9, that the bases of Kidal, Tessalit and Timbuktu would close by the beginning of the year 2022. Although he stressed, in parallel, that this did not mean France's complete disengagement on the ground, this decision raised concern, particularly among development cooperation actors. It is that the G5 Sahel — bringing together Mali, Mauritania, Niger, Burkina Faso and Chad — and its Joint Anti-jihadist Force do not seem able to respond to the security challenge. At the beginning of July, Le Monde reported the words of a French civil servant expert in crisis management who recalled how the presence of "Barkhane" in this area reassured the various protagonists of the cooperation. There is therefore a great fear that this withdrawal will lead to a gradual disengagement of the actors involved in cooperation. Madam Minister, have you ever been able to meet with your French counterparts or, in any case, with French authorities? How do you assess the impact of this decision on Belgian development cooperation operators active in the region? How do you prepare for this development, particularly with regard to Mali, Burkina Faso and Niger, all of which are partners in Belgian cooperation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic595x.u13	Thank you for your question. Our diplomats are in constant contact with their French counterparts. The same applies to our other European partners present on the spot. These issues are, of course, the subject of much discussion. There is no question at this stage of disengagement of development cooperation actors in the countries of the region. I think it is useful to make it clear in advance that the French decision is indeed aimed at reconfiguring its arrangements and not at a complete disengagement from France on the ground. This reconfiguration should therefore not lead to implosion by the countries of the region. Consequently, a sudden deterioration in the security conditions of development cooperation operators on the ground, whether Belgian or not, is not expected at present. To date, there has been no significant impact on the work of our NGOs and Enabel, except for the situation of great insecurity, as we know it, in recent years. However, we will be very attentive to developments and will adapt to them continuously. My services and those of the Minister of Foreign Affairs are responsible for this. With regard to Mali, Burkina Faso and Niger, I would like to point out that all Belgian cooperation operators, whether governmental or non-governmental, are required to carry out a risk analysis in their programming, to provide mitigation measures and to prepare an adequate response to the highest identified risk. The selection of areas of intervention will also take into account the security situation. However, I realize the challenges in the countries of this region. That is why I want to help stabilize the situation and address the root causes of the conflict. I will continue to invest in projects aimed at this region in order to strengthen the social cohesion of the communities and allow them access to basic social services. I am thinking of Enabel's interventions in Tillabéri in Niger, West Burkina Faso or Central Mali, but also of the many NGOs present, both in terms of development and humanitarian aid. Finally, note that we are currently exploring new models of intervention! This is the case, for example, in the Niger portfolio, where a comprehensive approach is under consideration, based on increased collaboration with Belgian Defence.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic595x.u14	Minister, thank you for your answers. I am pleased to have heard that the solution in the Sahel is comprehensive and not only safe. I am pleased that you can commit to continue investing in these countries. You are optimistic about the relatively neutral impact of a reconfiguration of the French presence in the region. I hope time and history will make you right. At the very least, with colleagues from Defence and Foreign Affairs and European partners, we will have to rethink and reconfigure our presence in the region in accordance with the French decision. The objectives remain the same, but the means could be changed considerably.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic595x.u15	I am following the good example and refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic595x.u16	Madam Minister, the already precarious situation of the Afghan people has deteriorated since the Taliban returned to Afghanistan. The Afghan economy was already very fragile and is now, so to speak, at the end of its Latin: the Afghan banking system is collapsing and the population is struggling to gain access to essential basic goods and consumer goods. Local and international humanitarian organisations do not have sufficient resources. This is, of course, due to the drying up of the sources of funding available to the country before the fall of the previous government. You have taken a first step with the announcement that EUR 2 million will be transferred to the United Nations Humanitarian Fund for the Afghan people. The aim is to help humanitarian organisations meet the needs of mobile healthcare and food security. However, the Afghan people need more help, as many civil society organisations and the United Nations confirm. It is becoming increasingly difficult to meet basic needs and the increasing poverty of the population is extremely alarming. As early as September, the IMF and the Director of the UNDP for Asia and the Pacific signalled the risk of widespread poverty in the Central Asian country. Do you intend to continue Belgian development aid in the long term? Yesterday there was a hearing with Mothers for Peace on women's rights in Afghanistan. I also asked whether the government intends to make development aid conditional or even stop, since the Taliban have come to power, or does the government intend to continue the aid and, if so, under what conditions? Do you intend to increase the support?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic595x.u17	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I share your concern about the situation in Afghanistan. The humanitarian needs are immense. I am therefore very close to developments in the country, particularly with regard to respect for human rights and, more specifically, for women and children. Afghanistan is not a partner country in government cooperation. The country is also not one of the priority geographical areas of Belgian humanitarian aid, but Belgium indirectly supports the response to this humanitarian crisis. This is done through the flexible financing of Belgium, which enabled the CERV Fund and the DREV Fund to quickly set up projects in Afghanistan. Given the exceptional nature of the situation, I have decided to strengthen aid in the region by making a new contribution of EUR 2 million to the humanitarian and flexible fund for Afghanistan. The Humanitarian Fund for Afghanistan is managed by OCHA and is under the authority of the humanitarian coordinator, thus allowing better and fully autonomous use of the funds allocated to the most critical humanitarian needs so that rapid and efficient action can be taken. The EUR 2 million comes from the additional funding allocated under budgetary control of EUR 10 million for the Humanitarian Funds budget line. The management of the Fund shall be transparent and verifiable. The beneficiary organisations shall be carefully evaluated. The projects will be monitored. Regular progress reports shall also be drawn up. Moreover, national and international NGOs must comply with comprehensive procedures for assessing their capacity to be eligible for aid. They are also subject to external audit mechanisms. When the aim of the international community is to support the Afghan people as much as possible and to prevent the country's economic collapse, it is evident that its action can never be intended or subject to any form of direct or indirect financing of the Taliban. The Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA) had recently assured that no funding would go to the Afghan regime or pass through it, since aid was being implemented exclusively by humanitarian organizations. The importance of equal rights for women cannot be underestimated. Societyes where women are oppressed are more often violent and unstable. So we must not lose the progress that has been made in Afghanistan over the last 20 years. Attention to these aspects must always be at the heart of an effective humanitarian response. This translates into the integration of gender considerations into all funding procedures. For example, NGOs wishing to receive a humanitarian subsidy must justify how the proposed project or programme integrates a gender perspective. In general, humanitarian partners funded by Belgium are encouraged to pay particular attention to gender and more specifically to the fight against sexual violence, both at strategic and operational level. Given the importance of respecting the rights of women in Afghanistan, Belgium will pay close attention to ensuring that this dimension is properly integrated into the financing it decides to grant. The Afghan regime gave assurances that UN humanitarian operations can be carried out safely by both male and female personnel. The UN also stated that they want to increase their capacities in the region. Doctors Without Borders also see no safety risk for their staff at this stage. Based on the experience in Afghanistan, the International Committee of the Red Cross, the ICRC, also continued its activities without interference or limitation. According to the President of the ICRC, Mr Maurer, the ICRC should normally be able to operate in the same way as in the past and in accordance with the same humanitarian principles in the future. This means, among other things, that the organisation will not accept any involvement of authorities in the selection of staff and will therefore be able to recruit both female staff and staff from other ethnic groups. Of course, we will continue to follow that closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic595x.u18	Minister, thank you for your answers. There are the two million you have announced and you have mentioned an additional 10 million in the context of the budgetary adjustments. Did Belgium therefore allocate 12 million? Maybe I misunderstood.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic595x.u19	EUR 10 million is available for humanitarian funds. Of this, EUR 2 million will be invested for Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic595x.u20	Madam Secretary of State, thank you. Even if Afghanistan is not a partner country for Belgium, we can welcome the fact that you have chosen this priority with the money available – and we know that there are not many at the national level. It is essential that our country show solidarity with the Afghan people. It is reassuring to hear – even if I doubt it – that the funds mobilized go directly to the population and in no way can stabilize the Taliban state or, in any case, the Taliban authority in the country. The opposite would be exactly the opposite of what we want. On the issue of women's rights, what has happened in recent weeks and months gives us no confidence in the Taliban's ability to promote women's rights and their safety, including in humanitarian response teams. We must remain very attentive. This raises another question for Belgium, an issue that goes beyond Afghanistan. We will still have to deal with many disasters and crises in the coming years, be they political or climatic. At one point, we will need to think strategically about the content of humanitarian aid and structural support to our partner countries. It would be interesting to have a more general view; it may be found in the policy note. Countries must continue to be structurally supported. We must also live up to the crises that people are facing. We'll come back to it later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic595x.u21	Madam Minister, you have assured us that Afghan projects are subject to control and audit mechanisms, that the money is not in the hands of the Taliban, that the gender aspect is very important and that women are given equal access to humanitarian aid. I'm glad to hear that. You give a positive picture, while we get a more negative picture through the media and other channels. One of the criteria for future recognition of the Taliban is unlimited access to independent humanitarian operations in Afghanistan. You seem to confirm here that this is still the case at the moment, which is positive. We're not looking for negative news. We saw a moving presentation of Mothers for Peace yesterday, so it's a good thing you're bringing that news. The European Union must also be present on the ground for humanitarian aid. Do you have any idea of the position of the European Member States?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic595x.u22	I'm gonna have to check that out.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic595x.u23	That's good.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic595x.u24	Madam Secretary, thank you for your comprehensive and clear answer. You confirm that additional humanitarian aid of EUR 2 million will be provided. Of course, Afghanistan is not a priority partner country for Belgium in development cooperation, but you will continue to provide humanitarian aid. The figures are hallucinating, for example on the human development index, general human development, a container concept for, among other things, access to education, literacy and access to health care, in which there was already a gap between urban areas and rural areas. The 20 years of military occupation, of course, has drained a lot of resources, as I said yesterday, no less than $2,000 billion. That occupation was justified by the attempt to promote democracy and women's rights and to import a particular model. Certainly in urban areas, civil society and all kinds of organisations have made progress, but the figures and the situation are still what they are. The International Organisation for Migration has carried out a survey of the Afghan population, which shows that 85% of the people surveyed depend entirely on themselves for their food supplies. So they're gonna have to knock on family door. So they try to get food in an informal way. It also appears that 29% of adults have to do without food for the children. It is good to hear from you that we are maintaining emergency humanitarian aid. In the long term, it will also be necessary for the UNDP to operate in a more structural way on the ground. The question remains as to how far that will work with the Taliban in Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic595x.u25	Dear colleague, the debt problem continues to affect the economic and social resilience of a number of countries. The pandemic affects not only health systems, but also the economies of the poorest and most vulnerable countries. A sustainable recovery can only take place if no one is left behind. That is why we take responsibility. Indeed, I have taken the decision to use €2.5 million of our contribution to IFAD to clear Somalia's arrears to the Fund. The clearance of those arrears was a condition for Somalia to benefit from debt relief under the international initiative for heavily indebted poor countries. This will allow the country, after years of devastating civil war, to benefit from wider debt relief and to regain access to international financing. The common framework follows an approach based on consultation between the country in question and bilateral creditors through creditor committees. In this context, debtor States undertake to negotiate with the private creditor on the basis of at least equivalent treatment. However, the debt treatment initiative under the Common Framework is the responsibility of the debtor States. To date, only Chad, Ethiopia and Zambia have requested such treatment. It is true, however, that the involvement of the private sector remains a sensitive issue. At the multilateral level, we need to find a way to make private sector participation more binding. As for new loans from financial and international institutions, such as the World Bank and IMF, these institutions have agreed to finance specific projects and programmes and are monitoring their use. As for the use of special drawing rights, countries are entirely free to decide on the use of such funds. One of the topics of the next annual meeting will be the use of the IMF's decision to issue a general distribution of $650 billion in special drawing rights. Several leads are on the table. It seems to me important that these reserves should also be used to alleviate the financial needs of the most vulnerable countries in the long term without increasing the burden of debt.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic595x.u26	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I would like to address two or three points. First of all, thank you for reminding us that debt relief remains an important focus for you. The government agreement states that every effort will be made to alleviate or even cancel the debts of the countries of the South. A year later, it remains difficult for me to see the degree of progress in this process, when about a third, I think, of developing countries are over-indebted or in default and are in a crisis situation as it has not seen in recent decades. I am therefore very concerned about our inability to alleviate the situation in these countries in a real way. With regard to the special drawing rights (SDR) system, it seems to me that their impact remains very limited, firstly because the poorest countries have less to gain from it since these SDRs are calculated in proportion to their contributions to the IMF, to which they of course contribute less. On the other hand, SDRs can be granted in the form of loans, and I hope that vigilance will be exercised to prevent them from becoming a tool for further debt to these countries. On the contrary, these countries must be able to benefit immediately from this money in their coffers. In addition, SDRs may be used to repay private creditors and may not be used to alleviate the needs of the population. While SDRs may be useful for some countries, it must be remembered that they cannot be a miracle solution to the debts of the countries of the South. As you know, I have been advocating for more than a year now for the effective cancellation of debts, which in my view remains quite relevant. Belgium has a role to play, both in relation to these bilateral debts and at the level of the multilateral bodies in which it sits. It was necessary to continue to advocate pure and harsh debt cancellations and to ensure that official development assistance was not used to relieve private creditors. This aid exists to help the people of the South, to support them and not to repay the debts of private creditors. I know you're paying attention to all this, but I would like us to be able to achieve results in the coming months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic595x.u27	Madam Minister, the challenges of development cooperation are greater than ever. There is the corona crisis and its consequences, there is climate degradation and, of course, the growing gap between rich and poor. These are very clear indicators for the fact that it is crucial to work on international cooperation and solidarity. Fifty years ago, the prosperous countries of the West, in particular, promised to spend 0,7% of their gross national product on development cooperation. Our country does not seem to be doing so badly at first sight, but still the resources are much behind the enormous challenges we face. The Belgian rate for development cooperation increased from 0.40% to 0.46% in 2020, although this figure should be slightly relative to 11.11.11, as it follows, in addition to a small absolute increase in the budget, a decrease in gross national product by 10% due to the corona crisis. Belgium is also below the European average of 0.50 %. The federal government promised a binding growth path in its government agreement, towards 0,7 % by 2030. Will the government in the budgetary discussions keep its commitment to devote 0,7% of gross national product to development cooperation by 2030? What exactly is being set aside for that purpose in the budget?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic595x.u28	Thank you, Madam President, On 23 September, CNCD 11.11.11. published its 2021 report on Belgian development aid. He is, as always, rich in teachings. The first finding is positive: ODA increased in 2020. However, this must be immediately relativized by another observation: equivalent to 0.46 per cent of our Gross National Income, ODA is still far from the international target of 0.7 per cent set by the United Nations in 1970. Belgium is above the world average but below the European average and is surrounded by neighbours who are all doing better than it is. The government agreement, and I know, Madam Minister, that you are attentive to it, provides for the gradual increase of the budget of Belgian Development Cooperation with the aim of reaching 0.7% of GNI by 2030. As the budgetary discussions have begun, it is important to recall how committed our common political family, the minister, is to this commitment. It is all the more meaningful as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, which has had a significant impact on the countries of the South. Its consequences were severe and the over-indebtedness of those States, for the most part, prevented them from implementing recovery plans. In addition, this would also be an adequate response by the public authorities to the tremendous popular generosity that emerged in the last operation 11.11.11., which has generated record sums. Of course, we should be happy about that. My questions are as follows, are you going to adopt a binding path of increasing official development assistance and, if so, can you present it to us? Is an increase in the budget of non-governmental cooperation actors planned? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic595x.u29	I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic595x.u30	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is with great interest that I have read the annual reports of two NGO cupolas. I fully agree with the key message that we must work together across borders to meet challenges such as the fight against the virus and climate change. Official development assistance (ODA) is an important lever in this struggle. In recent months, my administration has calculated concrete ways to achieve the proposed target of 0.7% of gross national income by 2030. The priorities of the policy statement, the challenge of climate change, the sustainable and green recovery after the pandemic, and the real needs of our partner countries have all been taken into account. On the basis of this preparatory work, a quantified and well-founded proposal has been developed in the context of the budget format for 2022, which initiates the pre-established growth path to the 0,7%. The priorities are clear: additional efforts in the fight against climate change and rising inequality, additional humanitarian aid for new crises, which are taking longer and longer, and economic and social reconstruction after the COOVID-19 pandemic. A realistic increase in the existing envelope is also foreseen for the non-governmental actors, to which Mr Ben Accour is asking. The budgetary negotiations are still under way and I cannot make any preliminaries on their outcome. However, I would like to point out that an increase in the budget for development cooperation within the framework of the growth path is a commitment of the entire government. It is my responsibility to present a concrete and realistic plan to implement the coalition agreement. I'll take that responsibility for the full hundred percent. Let me make it clear: investment in international solidarity and climate mean investment in all of us. At the same time, I note with you that it will be difficult to make significant progress in this area in the 2022 budget. The limited budgetary space created by the covid crisis, combined with the necessary efforts in the light of the reconstruction after the pandemic and the flood disaster, and the need to find a decisive response to the current energy crisis, which is particularly likely to affect the most vulnerable in our society, force the government to difficult choices this year. Mrs Van Hoof, you are asking for a prognosis of ODA expenditure. It is difficult to make such forecasts, because they depend not only on the current budget discussions but also on expenditure outside my administration's budget. Moreover, this figure also depends heavily on the evolution of our country's economic growth, on which long-term predictions are difficult to make in this uncertain economic context. With regard to Ms de Laveleye and Ms Van Hoof's questions on the status of the OECD on Phantom aid and the rules on the accountability of certain expenditure, discussions are currently focusing on expenditure in the area of migration and development. A working group is currently working on this issue and Belgium is actively participating in it. I agree with you that questions can indeed be asked about the relevance of some of these expenditures in terms of sustainable development. That is why, in this working group, Belgium advocates placing the sustainable development of our partner countries at the centre and avoiding inflating the figures with expenditure that does not contribute to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic595x.u31	Madam Minister, I will retain an important sentence that you have said: "Investing in solidarity is investing in all of us." That was what we wanted to see in the majority agreement. You are right to say that all the political groups in the majority are co-responsible for what will emerge from the budget debate. Nevertheless, as parliamentarians, we supported an excellent resolution by Mrs Van Hoof recalling the importance of this 0.7%, which is a firm commitment of Belgium. I hope we won't be disappointed when we get out. I am speaking to you but also, through you, to the whole government. As you said yourself, the countries of the South are in an absolutely catastrophic situation. We can't be indifferent. It is not a matter of charity but a question of efficiency, humanity and vision for the future. How do we see tomorrow's world for all of us? With regard to phantom aid, I am pleased to hear that Belgium has an important role to play in the OECD's debates to remove, in particular, the costs of receiving migrants, not that these costs are not important, but that they should not be charged to public aid. The same debate could be held on the costs of students who still account for 2 per cent of official development assistance. Pass the message to your colleagues in the majority! We expect a significant effort. We're going down to 0.41% in 2021. There is no doubt about that. That's not what we committed ourselves to a few months ago. You have our support to make you heard.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic595x.u32	Madam Minister, you are more optimistic about the future of security in the Sahel than about the outcome of the budget negotiations. Here I would like to reiterate my group's support for the work that you are going to do with your government colleagues to try to draw this fiscal trajectory that we all want – I hope at least – upwards. I will not recall what has been said: the stakes are not just the development of the countries of the South but ours collectively. I wish you luck. I hope that next time we meet in Parliament, you will be able to announce good news.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic595x.u33	Madam Minister, I do not want to anticipate the budgetary negotiations, but I am sure that you will argue for that 0,7% and that growth will continue despite the choices that still have to be made and despite the fact that there is still a lot of need in Belgium. You said that climate finance is an integral part. Investing in it helps all of us. After all, in our own country, we are already affected by all these climate degenerates. In Wallonia, 12,000 people are still dependent on food aid. I would like to return to the concept of solidarity. In the end, a kind of misconception has arisen that we are organizing a transfer from North to South with development cooperation, but in principle the transfer from the poor South to the rich North is many times larger. For every dollar we invest in development aid in the global south, we extract $24 from that global south through underpaid labour through concessions from mineral resources that are still unjust. The southern countries do not collect taxes because there are still a lot of tax flows that find their way to tax havens, think of the Pandora Papers, although that is about wealth created in Belgium. In the global south one speaks of factor 2 or factor 3. There are still unfair asymmetric trade agreements. As long as nothing is done about the structural causes, we can continue to provide development aid, but in fact that is only charity. Ultimately, charity must one day lead to solidarity and international cooperation. I thought I'd put that in perspective. That 0,7% is a bit of a delusion. Of course, it would be good if we could ever achieve that. In the meantime, a lot of things still go wrong. Multinationals still occupy a great deal of wealth in the South. Think of the structural adjustment programmes or interest payments on debts that still have to be paid to Western banks. This, of course, means that our efforts in the field of development aid will remain a drop in the ocean if we do nothing about these structural causes. I take note of your commitment and your plea for continued growth and wish you every success.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic595x.u34	Madam Secretary, I'm sure you'll have my full support. At government level, the CD&V looks in the same direction. I hope you get that confirmation. After all, it is a unique opportunity to increase the budget. Mr De Vuyst spoke of an idea fixe. We're celebrating the 50th anniversary of the 0.7% we're not gonna make. We almost got there once and now we're at 0.46 %. If we don't do anything additional, we'll evolve to 0.35%. We'll be halfway back. It is good that you yourself have drawn up a proposal that is moving towards an increase. We would need EUR 267 million a year to reach the target by 2030. Of course, you can't give numbers. I understand that there are many other problems at the moment. It is good that it could be a substantial increase. You're working towards an elevation. Hasn't the administration developed a growth path yet? I didn't get that right. You do increases before 2022 and before 2023 you would look at it. Is this perhaps in a global trajectory? It would be good to be able to look at that path in the budget negotiations to know where we are going or what we should aim for. I am pleased that you have a proposal and I wish you every success in bringing in as much as possible for development cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic595x.u35	Madam Minister, I refer to the question that has been put.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic595x.u36	Madam Minister, I refer to the text of my question as tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic595x.u37	Mrs Van Hoof, Mrs Samyn, the humanitarian needs in Syria remain enormous. The country also remains a geographical priority of our humanitarian aid. Half the Syrian children have known nothing but war. This has ensured that more than 11 million people in Syria need assistance. Hunger is still increasing in different parts of the country. Eight out of ten citizens live below the poverty line. Families have to make hard choices between eating on the table, sending a roof over the head or sending the kids to school. On top of that, COOVID-19 and the closure of border crossings create additional problems. During my work visit to Jordan and Lebanon, I spoke to a lot of those responsible for organisations that are also active in Syria. Their message was very clear, the situation in Syria is completely hopeless. Humanitarian aid should be temporary, but the biggest problems in Syria are still humanitarian after ten years. These organisations remain committed to life-saving work, but there are no sustainable solutions. We keep people alive, but we cannot guarantee their dignity. Therefore, more than humanitarian aid, Syrian refugees also need political solutions. I therefore fully support the efforts of the UN Envoy. However, we must not leave the Syrian people behind. Belgium contributes to the OCHA Syria Humanitarian Fund and the OCHA Syria Cross-border Humanitarian Fund. Local organisations can also receive funding from these funds. In addition, we contribute to flexible funds, such as the OCHA CERF, which are committed to the ongoing crisis in Syria. As you correctly pointed out, I also announced that I would allocate funds to the specific humanitarian projects in Syria itself. How much specific will go to which region has not yet been decided. A plan is currently being worked out with our partners. We will work with multilateral organisations and international NGOs that meet all legal requirements, such as the World Food Agency, UNHCR and UNRRA. These organisations have a specific humanitarian mandate and respect the principles of humanity, neutrality, independence and impartiality. We also always encourage these partners to strengthen local partnerships. Mrs Samyn, in reply to your question on specific projects, I would also like to say that our humanitarian partner organisations are asking us not to give specific details of the exact locations of their work. According to a report by the International Rescue Committee, Syria is the deadliest country in the world for humanitarian aid, with the highest number of attacks on aid workers and the highest number of deaths among aid workers in 2019. As regards the role of the local authorities, I can say that they are not involved in the implementation. This is always the case in such humanitarian situations. As far as control mechanisms are concerned, the vast majority of the actors who finance Belgium in Syria are multilateral organisations with sound systems. We discussed the aspect of flexible financing in detail here in the Chamber during the Parliamentary Assembly in May. For other types of financing, the agreements between the humanitarian organisations and Belgian humanitarian aid always contain clauses on the detection of fraud and reporting to Belgium. As a donor, we always have the possibility of recovering sums which have not been used in accordance with the terms of the agreement. The financial controls carried out by my administration are responsible for this. Mrs Van Hoof, you will undoubtedly agree with me that the conditions for safe, voluntary and dignified return are not fulfilled in Syria at the moment. As I have already said, political solutions will be needed in the first place. It goes without saying that the security and protection of all Syrians, including those who voluntarily return, must be guaranteed. In this context, my administration will examine the possible creation of a specific monitoring mechanism.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic595x.u38	Madam Secretary, thank you for your comprehensive answer. You know that our party is in favour of shelter in its own region. Humanitarian aid on the ground in conflict areas such as Syria should and should be increased so that people no longer have to resort to a life-threatening journey. As far as the use of these funds is concerned, given Syria's instability, of which you gave a number of examples, these funds must reach the right people, i.e. persons and children in need. However, to what extent do we know 100% that they do not end up with terrorists? We are never 100% sure whether those funds are being used for purposes other than intended. I hope that sufficient control mechanisms are in place to ensure that humanitarian aid reaches the most vulnerable groups.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic595x.u39	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. The visit has clearly impressed you, especially the hopelessness. You used the word life-saving and said that it's hard to guarantee dignity. Those are tough words. Syria is the deadliest country in terms of humanitarian aid. It goes without saying that it is difficult to find a structural solution for those people. For the time being, it can only be humanitarian aid. That is discouraging because the international community cannot provide an answer, there are only wipes for bleeding. That is frustrating, but it is good that we are there and provide support and in the long term. In time, hopefully, we will be able to work on a different kind of solution for these people. Some have been in camps since childhood and grow up there. How do we solve this and how do we offer these people perspective, including in the camps? I do not have the answer to that question, and I hope that the international community will develop a more rapid vision of that transition to structural aid to ensure that children can have a perspective in those camps. It is good that you support the monitoring mechanism, to see if some can return as is claimed. It is, after all, a deadly country, as you pointed out. We need a proper monitoring mechanism to look at how we will deal with the UNHCR's protection treshold before sending people back.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic595x.u40	The questions put by Mrs Ponthier, both Question No Question No 55021056C 55021083C, converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic595x.u41	Madam President, Minister, I do indeed have a question about your recent work visit to Jordan and Lebanon, together with a number of members of your cabinet. How many people from your cabinet and your administration participated in that foreign trip? How do you justify that you had to leave with such a delegation? We have heard from the press that a social media employee would have joined us. What was the meaning of that? What is the function of that person on a work visit in Jordan? What was the total price of that foreign trip?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic595x.u42	Madam Minister, at the end of September you carried out a mission that took you to Jordan and Lebanon. The Syrian refugee crisis was the main focus of your work on the ground. You visited several projects supported by our Development Cooperation and met with several political leaders, representatives of UNRWA and the Office of the High Commissioner for Refugees, as well as civil society organizations. Both countries are acutely affected by the consequences of the migration crisis following the Syrian conflict. Lebanon has reached the figure – incredible in terms of its population – of 1.5 million Syrian refugees on its territory, 88% of whom live below the poverty line. Jordan also hosts a significant proportion of Syrian war displaced persons. They are in addition to the 2.2 million Palestinians and 300,000 Iraqis already present. You know, Madam Minister, that I am particularly interested in the dramatic situation in Lebanon, which in recent years has been facing a multitude of crises: migration, I have just mentioned it, but also economic and governance. On this last point in particular, it is not the recent formation of a long-awaited government that must make us lose sight of the endemic, structural and systemic corruption that affects all strata of the state apparatus. We must remain absolutely vigilant in this regard. You also had the opportunity to speak with the new Lebanese Foreign Minister. What lessons have you learned from your meetings with the actors involved in managing the Syrian migration crisis? What was the result of your meeting with the Lebanese Foreign Minister regarding the consequences of the explosion of the port of Beirut? Did you discuss this issue with him? Above all, did you address its judicial implications, knowing that the case is absolutely not making any progress from this point of view? Finally, was the issue of governance raised?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic595x.u43	Madam President, it was indeed my first field mission. The focus of the visit was on the problems of refugees from Syria and Palestine and the efforts made by our partners in Jordan and Lebanon to provide them with reception and protection in their own region. We were asked about the lessons that we draw from them. I'm taking three big lessons from my shipment. The first lesson relates to the importance of our help. Syrian refugees are indeed being received in the region, for 10 years now. In the meantime, it should also be made clear that a focus on reception alone is no longer enough. It is important that people feel safe in the country where they end up. Countries such as Lebanon and Jordan make great efforts and capture the largest number of refugees per capita in the world, not only Syrian but also Palestinian, Iraqi and others. They are counting on the appropriate support of the international community. In doing so, we must give people the tools to take their lives into their own hands. However, the refugees I spoke to also pointed out the numerous limitations they were facing. Many young people with higher qualifications do not find work, only a few sectors are open to them. We must therefore use our resources to create a future perspective, for example by focusing on education and employment. At the same time, poverty is increasing in these countries and refugees are more often seen as scapegoats. It is therefore important that we provide predictable, flexible funding to humanitarian funds and partners. They help all people, regardless of their nationality. In this way, we will ensure that there is support for these people to continue to help. This brings me to my second lesson, namely the importance of flexible financing. Several partners thanked Belgium for its trust and for the predictable flexible funding we provide. It is the case that a multi-annual commitment ensures that aid is made predictable and more efficient. This will speed up the response to changing circumstances and emerging needs. For example, the importance of this flexibility became clear after the explosion in the port of Beirut in 2020. Funding to the country fund for Lebanon could be released very quickly, without bureaucratic delays, in order to save lives. The final conclusion I draw from my visit is the need for political solutions, for example for the Syrian crisis. As long as there is no political solution in Syria, the people who have fled will never be able to return safely to their country. In Jordan too, but above all in Lebanon, it is necessary for politics to assume its responsibilities. The provision of basic services and care for refugees should not be left entirely to multilateral organisations and NGOs. Then I come to your questions about Lebanon. After months of political stagnation, Lebanon has managed to form a new government. This is an important and positive evolution. However, structural and political reforms and responsibility remain urgently needed in the country to cope with the various crises facing the Lebanese. I also gave this message to the new Foreign Minister of Lebanon, Abdallah Bou Habib. In addition, I mentioned the investigation into the explosion in the port. The effects of the explosion are still very palpable and visible in the city. More than 200 people lost their lives. The feeling of injustice and impunity among the Lebanese people is enormous, including among the relatives of one of the Belgian victims with whom I had a conversation. I asked the Minister about a state of affairs in the investigation and pointed out the importance of a thorough and transparent investigation. As far as your questions are concerned, Mrs Depoorter, the delegation that accompanied me consisted of eight people. Of these, five were members of my cabinet: the director of my policy cell, my diplomatic adviser, my advisor responsible for Humanitarian Aid, my spokesperson for contacts with the press and my communication advisor to visualize the mission. In addition, three persons from the Foreign Affairs Office were present: the Head of Service of the Humanitarian Office for substantive support in contacts with humanitarian organisations, the country responsible for Lebanon and Jordan for substantive support in political contacts, and the Speaker of the Foreign Affairs Office in support of the travelling journalists. We have not yet received a final statement of some of the costs incurred, but the estimated cost of the flights and the local accommodation and transport costs for this delegation is EUR 30,701. The costs incurred shall be distributed pro rata among the basic allocations of the policy cell and the relevant administrations. Mrs Depoorter, it is my conviction that my work visit has helped to bring the refugee problems and the results of Belgian cooperation to the attention of the general public. This is a way for me to show why our international solidarity is so important and why Belgian resources are being used well. I also think it is important to keep the cost of the mission as low as possible. I have deliberately chosen to allow everyone to travel in economy class for this journey, including myself. For my first mission to Geneva, I deliberately chose the train as a means of transport, even though it tripled the journey time. It is only logical to me that we organise these missions as efficiently as possible, but I will not fail to organise site visits, because if that is to help to bring people's needs to the attention of developing countries, then I see that as my duty to do so. Moreover, I also see it as my task to discuss with the partners in the field how the funds are being spent and whether this is being done as efficiently as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic595x.u44	Madam Minister, EUR 30,000 is a fine amount. Let it be clear that I have absolutely nothing against a site visit. I believe that politics must be made between people and that politicians must also be effective on the ground. I think it is very logical that the cost of your journey is as low as possible in view of the enormous efforts our society must make to overcome the covid pandemic, both in its own country and globally. As a vessel for development cooperation, I occasionally go to Ecuador in the context of our city band. Those trips pay for the mandataries themselves. I will not demand that you pay for all your travels as a minister, but the cost can at least be kept as low as possible. I'm having a really hard time with your social media consultant who went along. It is important for you to know what is happening on the ground, it is important for you to be able to adapt your policies to it; it is also important that we create solidarity, but the question arises as to whether a social media adviser is necessary in Syria. Will that help the people there? The fact that you have nice videos on Facebook and can send a nice tweet is not the core of your job. The core of your job is to see what goes wrong and what the Belgian government will do about it. I therefore believe that this is a very far-reaching way of communicating, especially from a Vivaldi government which considers it necessary to say that, for example, funds spent on Facebook should be reduced by opposition parties. I'm really sorry about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic595x.u45	I thank the minister for her response. I also thank her for regularly visiting the field to assess situations that need to be understood and are better understood on the ground. I find it quite normal that some of your collaborators can accompany you. I will devote my reply more specifically to Lebanon. You pointed out that the formation of the government was a positive new one. I am somewhat tempered by this judgment: we have been living for a few days at the time of the Pandora Papers, so you know that Lebanon is probably the country with the most registered offshore companies, namely 346, only through the company Trident Trust, one of the largest firms studied. In these revelations of the Pandora Papers, the results of the analysis of many journalists, are mentioned the names of the new Prime Minister Najib Mikati, his predecessor, Hassan Diab, the banker and former minister Marwan Kheireddine and, not surprisingly, Riad Salameh, who is the historical governor of the Bank of Lebanon and is concerned in judicial matters in France and Switzerland. We pass the series of Lebanese politicians, businessmen and journalists. To limit himself to the only current Prime Minister, he is accused of having acquired ten million dollars worth of property in Monaco in 2010 through a Panamanian television company. I would like to point out in referring to these facts that it is necessary for Belgium, and even more so the EU, to condition their aid to Lebanon, a key country in the region, for a real work to combat corruption, for a genuine clean-up of the state apparatus, which is gangred by the greed and corruption of its leaders. I believe that, in practice, an investigation must be carried out into what has taken place at the port, that the judicial investigation must proceed, and that a legal audit of the Bank of Lebanon must be carried out. The latter is absolutely necessary as Lebanon prepares to negotiate additional aid with the IMF. I believe that we really need to pull in that direction because the threat of a collapse of the country is flat, with dramatic consequences for the whole region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic595x.u46	Madam Minister, on 22 September, our Prime Minister announced, at the UN General Assembly, that Belgium would make a further €100 million contribution to climate finance and that this commitment was intended to increase in the years to come. In April 2021, I had already asked you about this, recalling that the commitment made in Belgium in the context of the previous burden sharing (2013-2020) had come to an end and that it was below a fair share, which was not additional to the amount of official development assistance (ODA). You replied that in 2021, the federal government would contribute EUR 100 million to international climate finance, which would represent an increase over the 70 million under the previous legislature, which would be charged with ODA. As a reminder, Belgium is committed to contributing to its fair share of the 100 billion provided for in the Paris agreements for international climate finance. As a reminder, climate finance is supposed to be additional to ODA. Last June, together with Mrs. Khattabi, you raised an additional 12 million per year, as early as 2021, to the amount of ODA. Minister, the announcement by Mr. Does Croo refer to the 100 million euros paid by ODA or additional money? Where are the 12 million approved by the Council of Ministers as an additional amount in this envelope? How will these amounts be allocated? Is the breakdown you gave in April (EUR 20 million to the Green Climate Fund, EUR 15 million to the Least Developed Countries Fund, EUR 15 million to the Global Environment Facility, EUR 50 million to Enabel and the rest to specific programmes) still up to date? What is the status of our new national contribution? What part will the federal government have in the national contribution? Will an agreement be reached in terms of burden sharing before COP26?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic595x.u47	Dear colleague, climate is one of my priorities. We are in a situation where those who have least contributed to global warming suffer the most and bear the greatest burden. The ten countries most affected by extreme weather events are all developing countries. If these countries are destabilized, this instability will also affect us. The Secretary-General of the United Nations rightly draws our attention to the enormous need for financing for adaptation. Annual adaptation costs in developing countries are estimated at $70 billion and are expected to reach $300 billion by 2030. That is why the majority of our climate efforts are aimed at adaptation. That is also why I have decided to increase federal climate funding from EUR 70 million to EUR 100 million per year. This decision was raised by our Prime Minister. These figures include the additional contribution of EUR 12 million from the interdepartmental provision. In addition, I am committed to increasing the federal contribution to climate finance in the coming years, particularly in the context of fiscal negotiations. We have a historic responsibility for climate change. It is our choice to limit its consequences. Let me explain what these funds include. Firstly, there is the climate action, integrated into the programmes and projects of Enabel and the Belgian non-governmental organisations. In addition, Enabel is working on a specific portfolio for climate action in the Sahel, EUR 50 million for the period 2022-2026. This portfolio will contribute to the large green wall, the African flagship project to combat desertification. In addition, I have decided to invest 25 million euros this year in BIO for climate investment. We need more investment in renewable energy. A serious dialogue has been initiated with BIO to optimise investment, to ensure that the portfolio is aligned with the Paris Agreement. We also contribute to the green climate fund and the fund for the least developed countries. Together, it is about 35 million euros in 2021. Finally, we will also support projects by multilateral organisations, for a total amount of EUR 22 million. This includes the 12 million euros of the interdepartmental commission. A specific contribution to the climate action of the United Nations and CGIAR Environment Programme has already been allocated. The CGIAR programme will strengthen the portfolio of climate action in the Sahel, which is developing Enabel, which will ensure the coherence of our action. The discussion on burden sharing is part of the discussion on the distribution of the Belgian climate and energy targets for the period after 2020 within the National Climate Commission. It is difficult to estimate when these negotiations can be concluded. Of course, it is the ambition to have a national figure for COP26, which is not very long anymore.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic595x.u48	Minister, I'll start with the end. We, too, need a clear burden sharing before COP26. It would be a shame that we would find it difficult to overcome if, at the intra-Belgian level, we could not agree. Thank you to the federal government for announcing the colour and being proactive on the issue of climate finance! Nevertheless, I remain a little on my hunger. However, most of the $100 million pledged is still charged to official development assistance. The Paris Agreements called for this to be additional to official development assistance. I find it very good that Official Development Assistance affirms its willingness to live up to the challenges of climate change. It's obviously an excellent thing. But we need really additional amounts to live up to our fair share in the international climate fund. There is room for improvement in the ongoing and future negotiations. On the other hand, I would like to welcome the fact that a significant part goes into funds in which the countries of the South really have a voice. It is important that climate money is available to the countries of the South for their priorities. This is the case for the Adaptation Fund, the Least Developed Countries Fund and the Green Climate Fund. I salute him. Let us continue to increase this share and its additional character, because, despite your efforts, we are not yet fully up to the Paris Accords. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic595x.u49	Madam President, I will explain a little, because my question was very short. Madam Secretary, Paul Rusesabagina was sentenced last month in Rwanda, after what our Foreign Minister called an unfair trial. He's been sentenced to a prison sentence of several years. We know that our country has closely monitored the situation, and that it has also made a number of clear efforts during the process. There is clearly a diplomatic disagreement on this matter between the two countries. I have already held a debate on this with Mrs Wilmès, but I would like to hear what you think is possible in the context of development cooperation. That is why I asked you first of all to give an overview of the total input of development cooperation in Rwanda, especially because we know that a part of it is bilateral aid, from state to state. What's the point? I think we should look for a number of levers to put pressure on Rwanda, given what has happened. As far as our group is concerned, development cooperation can be such a lever. For example, resources can be refocused, from bilateral support to other channels of development cooperation. This is a practice that we could apply, albeit without harming the population. I look forward to your response and your input.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic595x.u50	Madam Minister, I agree with Mr De Vriendt's questions. I don't think it's just a diplomatic problem. Actually, red line is crossed after red line. It was an unfair and unfair trial, Minister Wilmès said it out loud. First, we used silent diplomacy to exert pressure in this way. But this is wider than a diplomatic riot, because international reports also raise the issue of the Rusesabagina case. The State Department of the United States has also said that it was an unfair trial. This was also said from the UK, and by all kinds of international organizations such as Human Rights Watch and Amnesty International. It is also wider than this case. It is about a system of human rights violations in the Rwandan judicial system, which is clearly referred to in the Human Rights Council. All critics are systematically arrested, imprisoned and prosecuted in politically motivated trials. I take that very seriously. I also hear those messages from many people who no longer dare to speak openly. A woman has recently been sentenced to 15 years in prison because she had ruled in a blog that the genocide should not be exploited for tourist reasons. That was enough to convict the woman. So it goes very far. We must take the matter very seriously. After all, intimidation continues on our territory. There is Pegasus' problem, which has affected journalist Peter Verlinden, but also our own minister. I also hear that conversations of mine have been bugged. The intimidation goes quite far. I take things quite seriously. After all, the purpose of these eavesdropping practices is to check who someone is in contact with, then to pressure and intimidate him or her. So there must be consequences. Minister Wilmès replied this week that she was invited to a dialogue. It has quite literally indicated that it would continue to send invitations to find a solution to the current problems. That dialogue will also be necessary to encourage Rwanda to pursue the implementation of the recommendations of the Human Rights Council. We must take the matter seriously. It must not be mere rhetoric. The act must be added to the word. We are doing this for Russia and for Belarus. We're imposing sanctions. In this case, however, it goes quite far, to intimidation of our own citizens and ministers in our own field. We must therefore not give a clear lead in this matter. It is a good thing that dialogue is in place. I can only encourage that. However, if it does not result in any action, we must send out a signal. There is also the fact that money remains attached to the state apparatus. I do not know to what extent, but I would like to ask you that question. Partnership agreements are being concluded with technical ministries by our Ministry in the field of agriculture and public health, but apparently also on good governance. That good governance is a little screaming. However, I would like to ask you whether it is not possible, if the dialogue does not lead to anything, to see how we can reorient the aid that goes to the state apparatus. Of course, aid must not be suspended, conditioned or frozen. It must be oriented towards the population itself. The question is, where will the funds come from to finance a World Cup cycling race or to finance the Arsenal football team? What are we doing? We finance basic services, such as health care and agriculture. Meanwhile, they have money left to organize these things. That's really hitting me in the chest. That is why I am calling for the issue to be taken seriously and to see how we can send a signal without affecting the population.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic595x.u51	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will begin by giving an overview of the figures requested, but for 2021 the figures are not yet available. Expenditure in governmental cooperation with Rwanda amounted to €27.52 million in 2018, €28.1 million in 2019 and €43.29 million in 2020. For non-governmental cooperation, expenditure amounted to EUR 6.45 million in 2018, EUR 6.64 million in 2019 and EUR 6.47 million in 2020. In view of the Belgian policy of mainly cofunding our multilateral partners and thus not specifically allocating resources to countries, there has been no funding for Rwanda through that channel during the period in question. Through the humanitarian aid channel, the following amounts were spent in Rwanda, mainly through multilateral organisations: EUR 1.79 million in 2018, EUR 1.54 million in 2019 and EUR 2.02 million in 2020. Madame de Laveleye, the increase in government program spending in 2020 was not the result of a decision to add budget to the program. There is no amount awarded per year. Budgets are decided in the framework of multiannual programmes. On the other hand, there are differences from year to year as a result of the rate of expenditure for projects that are part of them. The average expenditure on government cooperation in Rwanda for the last four years is EUR 31.46 million per year. After two years of implementation of the 2019-2024 cooperation portfolio with Rwanda, approximately 38% of the total budget, or about €45 million, was spent. So there's still around 75 million euros left. Enabel's spending in 2019 and 2020 also includes spending on the previous government cooperation program, which explains why total spending for these years is higher. For the portfolio of the government program 2019-2024, the whole goes through Enabel. In 2018 and 2019, there were still delegated cooperation expenditure that did not go through Enabel. This is part of the previous programme, which was partly implemented by international organizations or other bilateral donors. The previous cooperation programmes with Rwanda amounted to EUR 160 million initially planned for the period 2011-2014. An additional amount of EUR 40 million had been foreseen as an incentive tranche, but this was linked to certain conditions that were not met. This tranche was therefore not granted. The 2011-2014 programme was also lagging behind. A new portfolio was only approved in 2018 by my predecessor. The failure to allocate the incentive tranche and the delay in the implementation of the 2011-2014 programme meant that the average expenditure per year in the previous programme was much lower than originally planned. The budget for the new 2019-2024 cooperation portfolio is EUR 120 million. This decrease, compared with the initial programme for 2011-2014, took into account the average annual achievement of the previous programme and the overall decrease in the development cooperation budget under the previous legislature. This is therefore not a halving of the budget allocated to Rwanda. Most of the current portfolio goes to three priority sectors. EUR 45 million goes to the health sector, focusing on improving the quality of life of the Rwandan population by giving people better access to health care. Special attention is paid to sexual and reproductive health, accessible family planning and the health of mothers and children. EUR 30 million goes to the agricultural sector, with a focus on improving the economic prospects of farmers and producers of maize and soya. Finally, €25 million goes to urban planning and urbanisation projects in a number of secondary cities. Here the focus is on improving the economic prospects of local craftsmen and industry, especially in the construction sector. In addition to these three priority sectors, €5 million is provided for a multi-basket trust fund for improving the management of public finances and €2,350,000 for a study and expertise fund. The balance of EUR 9 650 000 is intended for management costs of the programme by Enabel and International Technical Cooperation. As part of the implementation of the government programme, Enabel has signed funding agreements with Rwandan state institutions, but there is no direct budget support to the Rwandan government. Mr De Vriendt, Mrs Van Hoof, as regards your questions about the impact of the ruling in the Rusesabagina case on our development cooperation, I can say first of all that I personally am very sorry that Mr Rusesabagina has not been given a fair and fair trial and that his suspicion of innocence has not been respected. Last week, Minister Wilmès provided you with a comprehensive response on the Belgian position and efforts in this area. This matter is actually also an illustration of the need for Rwanda to make further efforts to ensure respect for human rights. As Minister Wilmès pointed out, it intends to continue its contacts with the Rwandan authorities on this matter through a frank dialogue. I agree that the interests of our compatriots are better served by this than by a bid between the two countries. Therefore, it seems premature to me to comment on a reorientation of our development cooperation on this issue, especially since our funding is almost entirely focused on helping the Rwandan people. Mr De Vriendt, as you yourself have pointed out, it is important not to abandon the Rwandan people. Mrs Van Hoof, you also mentioned in your question that ensuring more food security, better and more accessible health care and local economic development is crucial for a country whose population is among the poorest in the world. The situation is therefore very different from that in Burundi in 2015. In the then programme with Burundi, there were extensive projects in power departments that could be considered as direct support for the regime, such as support for the professionalisation of the police or the justice system. Such projects are not currently being discussed in Rwanda. Mrs Van Hoof, you also referred to the Universal Periodic Review of Rwanda in the Human Rights Council. At the beginning of this year, Rwanda received 284 recommendations from other Member States. Rwanda accepted 160 of them, rejected 75 of them and is currently considering the response to 49 recommendations. Common recommendations to Rwanda include ensuring freedom of expression and assembly, the freedom of the press, the independence of the court and investigations into extrajudicial executions, forced disappearances and arbitrary arrests. So I certainly share your concern, and I also think it is our job to continue to raise this issue. At the moment, I think dialogue with Rwanda is the best way to do that. I would also like to stress that Belgium, as you undoubtedly know, has a long history of partnership with the non-governmental actors. In a healthy society, there is a need for strong and critical civil society. We also finance Belgian NGOs in Rwanda, which contribute to the development of this critical civil society.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic595x.u52	Madam Minister, thank you for all the very detailed information you have given us on quite detailed questions as well. I will leave the bulk of the political reply to my colleague Wouter De Vriendt, but I would like to say that it is important for us to have a comprehensive view of what we are doing in Rwanda at the moment, given the current situation. Personally, I fully support you in the logic that the very purpose of development cooperation is that Belgian public money directly serves the people, and that it should not be used, at this stage, as a lever for negotiation. Nevertheless, this remains money coming from Belgium. We can hope that at some point this will give us a lever for the discussions you will have with the Rwandan authorities on the issue of human rights. I leave it to Wouter De Vriendt to complete our group's response.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic595x.u53	Madam Minister, there are many actions that our country can take and that we should actually take. Parliament adopted a resolution calling for the repatriation of Mr Rusesabagina to Belgium. We have asked Minister Wilmès to continue to work on this and also to convoke the Ambassador of Rwanda, so that we can convey the concern about a fair trial and human rights in general directly to him. If we stick to just a sentence in words, it doesn't bring any harm to the dike. We should know that by now. I share your concern, of course, not to do anything to harm the interests of the Rwandan people. If you say that it is premature for you to start reorienting, I would ask you not to lose sight of the slopes and to examine them, in order to reorient them. And why not move away from the government to the non-governmental, to indirect support, especially through non-governmental organisations? I think this is a lever after all. I think it's time to take steps, to be honest. I would ask you to continue to investigate that. In any case, thank you for your answer and certainly for all the figures. I'm definitely gonna go over it in detail.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic595x.u54	Madam Minister, thank you for the comprehensive answer. Indeed, we still have to study the figures. After all, it was about different periods. There will also be a signal from the European Parliament this week to advocate repatriation and release. It is not just a matter of Belgium, but of course it is a matter of Belgium when it comes to action. I support Minister Wilmès who says he wants to start the dialogue on repatriation and on the need to implement the recommendations of the Human Rights Council, but what if that does not happen? I think we should give a signal then. There's not much we can do. The European Union has the opportunity to impose sanctions on those responsible for torture and torture or on officials who have caused it. You say that we give a budget to gestion de finance public and to urban planning. I know from my time in development cooperation that in those bilateral projects some state aid goes to those ministries. I would like to ask you to check whether within these projects there is a certain amount of support going to certain ministries to implement that project. In this way, we can send out a signal, without harming the people. It remains curious that Rwanda has one of the most extensive intelligence services and supports very expensive software to spy on people, while we support the basic services. I think we should be vigilant there, and I hope that dialogue will be established and will produce something, but we must not put this off.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic595x.u55	Madam Secretary, during the period from 2018 to 2020, the World Health Organisation, the WHO, was present in Congo to help the local population during the Ebola outbreak. Last year, sexual abuse became known to the locals. The WHO has set up an investigation committee to investigate those incidents. Now it appears that 63 women and 12 men were sexually abused by WHO staff. Doctors have to radiate safety and security abroad. In this case, that was anything but the case. The report says they took advantage of their position. Traumas in the local population are the result. Were you aware of the abuse when it came to light? Have you taken any steps? Will you take steps today? Were there any Belgian eyewitnesses or Belgian staff present when the facts took place? Did you examine that? How many people would that have been? For me, your communication in the context of this research is important both to the WHO and to the public. I haven't heard a response from you. Has the WHO and United Nations protocol been followed in the context of sexual harassment and sexual harassment? Last year we passed a law on sexual abuse in development cooperation in this Parliament. I interviewed you about that before the summer recess. What is the state of play with regard to the implementing decisions to be taken under this law?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic595x.u56	My question is in line with Mrs Depoorter's question about the umpteenth scandal surrounding international aid. 83 WTO staff involved in the fight against Ebola in Congo are accused of sexual exploitation. We shudder with all of us. Sex in exchange for a bucket of water or a better job was apparently the most normal thing in the world during such an epidemic. They just saw sex as a means of payment for help they had to offer on behalf of all of us. It's of such great distaste that it's almost unbelievable. I assume that the government will take the necessary steps to condemn this scandal. The perpetrators must not go unpunished. Madam Secretary, do you know if there are any Belgians involved? Are there any Belgians involved in the investigation? How powerful is the World Health Organisation itself to carry out a thorough and honest investigation into its own personnel on the ground? How much confidence do you have in that committee of inquiry? A second part of my questions is also about sexual violence, but not specifically by aid workers. Unfortunately, sexual violence in Congo is a daily and widespread phenomenon. The report by Doctors Without Borders is clear and speaks of 11,000 victims in 2020 alone. 98% of them were women and 19% were underage. That is only about the victims who have asked for medical attention. So that is just the tip of the iceberg, because access to healthcare is significantly hampered by a number of obstacles. There's clearly an underreport. The problem is huge. We should be able to work on these obstacles. It is clear that there is a lack of health centres. That is why the victims have to travel huge distances between their place of residence or the place of the sexual crime and the nearest health centre. The roads are in bad shape. There is often also a lack of financial resources for transport to aid. Moreover, they are also at risk of further violence or extortion, for example. The stories are legion. What programmes are aimed at victims of sexual violence? Which ones are already getting funding? Shall we expand it? How big a problem do we see in development cooperation? Will our country take another initiative in this respect? After all, we have always found it particularly important to free up additional funding to tackle this 'pandemic' of sexual violence in Congo.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic595x.u57	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress that the findings of the report are absolutely shocking. The behaviour of the WHO staff in question is absolutely unacceptable. My services heard the matter through a WHO communiqué on 29 September 2020. In October 2020, an independent committee of inquiry was set up by the WHO and the findings of that study were communicated on 28 September 2021. Given the independence of the Committee of Inquiry and the seriousness of the conclusions contained in the report, there are no grounds for doubting the objectivity and thoroughness of the investigation. The committee's report reveals a number of important shortcomings. One of these is the failure to follow up the existing protocols properly, which in particular prevented oral complaints from leading to the opening of an investigation. Over the past year, my services have been in regular contact with and briefed by the WHO. Pending the results of the independent investigation, Belgium joined the countries that insisted that the independent committee make rapid progress. On 4 May 2021, I had a personal consultation with WHO Director General Tedros and in Geneva on 30 June 2021, calling for a thorough follow-up to the allegations of sexual abuse. Following the publication of the report, I signed on 1 October, together with other EU Member States, a joint declaration in which we express our deep concern and ask the WHO to do everything possible to investigate the substance of the matter so that it can never happen again. Following the report on the results of the independent committee, I am now looking forward to the WTO's formal response to see how it will continue to deal with this crisis and how it intends to avoid such events in the future. I do not have any information on Belgian witnesses or interested parties at the moment. As regards the state of play regarding the implementing decisions of the amendment of the 2013 law, Ms Depooster, the charter integrity will become the formal standard for the Belgian actors in development cooperation. That charter refers both to integrity violations in the area of fraud and corruption as well as sexual cross-border behaviour. The EU Directive on the protection of whistleblowers is due to be transposed into Belgian legislation by the end of 2021 and will provide for the creation of an external hotline for integrity violations in areas such as fraud and corruption. This hotline will also be accessible to development cooperation actors. A separate hotline will be set up for the sexual cross-border behavior section. My services have consulted with various bodies to see where the hotline can be located and they have discussed its modalities. The discussions are at an advanced stage, so that the modalities can now also be included in the text of the RB to set up the hotline. Ms Liekens, Belgium included aid to victims of sexual violence in the DRC in humanitarian aid. In 2021, we support the International Committee of the Red Cross with €3.5 million, specifically to respond to sexual violence in the DRC. Through the budget line Society Building, we support a project of the United Nations Human Rights Office in the DRC on transition justice, which places a specific emphasis on the legal, medical, psychosocial and economic support of victims of sexual violence. My services are also currently studying a proposal by Médecins du Monde and Physicians for Human Rights to support Dr Mukwege's Panzi hospital in East Congo. In governmental cooperation with the DRC, health is a priority sector with three programmes representing a budget of €31 million between 2016 and 2023. Part of this is a programme to combat sexual violence. In addition to improving medical, psychological and psychosocial care for victims of sexual violence, the programme also establishes a prevention system within the communities and strengthens legal care for victims and their economic reintegration. The programme is being implemented in the provinces of Tschoo and South Ubangi. The budget is EUR 5 million. As the fight against sexual violence is a priority for me, I decided to increase the budget by EUR 5 million by the end of 2021 and extend the project to Kinshasa and the province of East Kasaï. There too, there is a strong presence of the problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic595x.u58	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. It is indeed yet another scandal in terms of development cooperation and aid to very vulnerable people. In your policy paper, you made it very clear that you would work on this and that you would like to assist victims. It is therefore a great pity that today, in October 2021, I get the same answer from you that I received four months ago about the hotline you have to organise under the law on sexual abuse in development cooperation. I read the committee's report again this morning. You have made it very clear that you have had consultations and that the modalities have been mapped out. You may have advanced a small step in that direction. Madam Secretary, you have also indicated that you do not want to do any duplication. However, double work for a victim of sexual abuse would not be so bad. You have been waiting for European legislation to put the hotline on it by the end of 2021. That's what you're tying up the hotline for victims of sexual abuse. I expected more priority to go to it. What I do not find in your reply is the determination of sanctions in the event of abuse. That must also be settled by a royal decree. Articles 7 and 9 of the Law provide that the King shall regulate the detailed rules and procedure for the subsidy of the programmes. Breaches of the Integrity Charter can give the State the opportunity to suspend subsidies or impose financial sanctions. How's that going? Have you consulted there and looked at modalities? Have you taken any steps there? Madam Secretary, as a country, we cannot afford to leave victims of sexual abuse wherever they live on the sidelines. This law was passed a year ago and it is your job to implement those royal decrees. I call upon you to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic595x.u59	Madam Minister, I am pleased to hear you say that the fight against sexual violence in Congo is a priority and that we will take even more action there than we have already done. This is a considerable amount of money for prevention. That is very important, because otherwise the evil has already been done and the mopping with the crane remains open. I am sure that the online course you have just mentioned will bring about in the form of train the trainers on the ground, but unfortunately it remains necessary to focus on a good and sound reception of the victims. It is clear that we need additional health centres so that we can ensure not only physical care, but also psychological care. After all, we all know that the damage and impact of sexual violence is particularly severe in this area and remains extremely long. That aid workers take advantage of their position, there's only one word for that, disgusting. In the new sexual penal law that comes into Belgium, the abuse of dominant positions in this way would be a particularly aggravating circumstance. Let us hope that the perpetrators are severely punished, so that this is also a signal to other aid workers. We need to be able to work preventively through charters, as Mr Depoorter just said. We cannot tolerate such a thing, we certainly cannot tolerate it again.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic595x.u60	I refer to the question that has been put.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic595x.u61	Madam Minister, you recently announced that, in addition to the Belgian contribution to the COVAX mechanism, you would also like to look at other solutions to combat vaccine inequality in the world. For example, you will see how Belgium can actively participate in initiatives that can increase the local production of vaccines, among other things in Senegal and South Africa. I would have liked to know what the state of affairs is, because you had announced this in the media. What initiatives does our country take and what do they entail? We know from the New York Times that Pfizer and BioNTech claim that they want to work with Biovac in South Africa to produce the Pfizer vaccine, but nevertheless they refuse to share the recipe. Moderna has promised to share her patent, but incredibly but true when the coronapandemic is over. That's a little cynical, of course. What problems do you have in setting up these initiatives in the field? Finally, how many vaccines does Belgium plan to contribute to COVAX?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic595x.u62	Belgium was one of the first European countries to start sharing vaccines. It is a complicated process, but it has enabled us to share our doses with other countries. Belgium has committed itself to delivering 4 million vaccines by the end of the year and this number may increase if there are enough surplus vaccines that are not needed here. At present, 2 million doses of AstraZeneca vaccine have been donated to COVAX. More than 800 000 have arrived, including Armenia, Senegal, Uganda and Rwanda. Other countries, especially in Africa, will also receive doses in the coming days and weeks. I would like to confirm once again that no vaccines have been returned. Before the delivery process, COVAX asks the receiving country whether it is prepared to receive vaccines and whether the vaccines can be administered before the expiry date. If this is not the case, the vaccines will be allocated to another country. We agree, sharing vaccines is a solution that hopefully will be temporary, but allows us to respond in the short term to this crisis. As a reminder, only 3% of the African population has been vaccinated so far. That is precisely why it is important not to lose sight of the need for structural solutions, not only for this pandemic, but also to be prepared for future pandemics. Africa must be able to produce vaccines and medicines itself. Belgium focuses on the enabling environment to make local production sustainable and successful. Firstly, we are helping Senegal to structure its pharmaceutical industry. Enabel works together with all concerned Senegalese ministries, such as the Ministry of Health. The project proposal of the Institut Pasteur provides for 18 months to complete the vaccines, the fill and finish process, and 30 months to fully produce the vaccines. So that's a very challenging timeline. In South Africa, via BIO Invest, Belgium invested 1.56 million euros in the company Aspen for the local production of Johnson & Johnson vaccines. Based on local needs, Belgium is currently examining how to provide additional support to partner countries, in coordination with Team Europe. We are also consulting with the WHO to see how Belgium can further stimulate technology transfer. This can be done through the recently established mRNA tech transfer hub in South Africa, which will share know-how on mRNA vaccines with producers in Africa and worldwide. The hub is hosted by Biovac, which also has a separate fill-and-finish agreement with Pfizer. The WHO and the Medicines Patent Pool consult with the private sector to find a solution for the hub in terms of patents. This is further closely monitored. We share the WTO's concern about unacceptable inequalities in the distribution of COVID-19 vaccines. No one wants to relive the situation we experienced in hospitals in 2020. Most patients then came from the risk groups. In these people immunity decreases rapidly and therefore they run the risk of serious covid as long as the virus continues to circulate in the population. However, there is currently no solid scientific evidence that a third dose is needed for the general population. That is why we are following the recommendations of the WTO. As Minister Vandenbroucke recently said in Parliament, studies show that the potential benefits of a third dose of vaccine do not outweigh the benefits of rapid vaccination of people in poorer countries. It is about common sense, ethics and international solidarity.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic595x.u63	Madam President, Minister, I remember that we are going to invest in local production capacity through Enabel. That is a good thing in itself, to create resilience for a possible future pandemic. For the sake of clarity, I hope we will be spared from that, but we must make the South as resilient as possible. The fundamental problem is that intellectual property rights are still in the hands of a number of farmaires. They still refuse to share the vaccine formula. In the previous question, I have also made an allusion to international justice, solidarity and charity. The COVAX initiative is charity. According to the New York Times, Biovac should not receive the prescription and only put pre-produced vaccines in bottles. It doesn't solve anything. It's also a little cynical. The European Commission also maintains its position within the World Health Organisation. The right to property is put above the health of millions of people. There are a number of shareholders behind those big companies, which are making huge amounts of money. That is incomprehensible to us. One continues to maximize the profit margin at the expense of millions of lives. The virus is still present at 85% of humanity. Because we cannot quickly scale up local production capacity everywhere by sharing the vaccine formula, we are, of course, at risk of being put at risk again in the long term. After all, the virus can continue to mutate. Versions may continue to emerge, for which the original vaccine may no longer be sufficient to protect us. Keep counting on COVAX and the non-existent goodwill of farmareuzen is not enough and means that we continue to refuse to organise real solidarity with the south. Several Heads of State explicitly stated in the United Nations General Assembly that intellectual property rights over the survival of the majority of people places is nothing less than a crime against humanity. Not only heads of state but also NGOs, medical organisations and large parts of civil society state: "Rich countries continue to offer pathetic trickles of charity while protecting the monopolies of pharmaceutical corporations and denying billions of people protection." The Chamber also invited an international patent texpert to a hearing on the broken amended vaccine resolution. That expert also blamed the attitude of many EU countries. She said: "The EU has been laughing a true sense of solidarity" and asked: "What happened to no-one is safe before everyone is safe?" I have heard you several times pleading for a waiver of the vaccine patent. Unfortunately, that is de facto lip service, because you are locked up in a government in which the liberal parties in particular do not like that proposal. Of course, that's a shame. As long as we stick to the COVAX initiative, we really cannot speak of solidarity. That is a pity, but I also take note of your answer. However, efforts are being made to transfer technology to further develop production capacity in the long term. However, local capacity is now needed everywhere to scale up production. At present this is still not the case, because the intellectual property rights of a number of pharmaceutical giants continue to be protected, although they have already passed the checkout three times, so to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic595x.u64	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. I have heard you say that only 3% has been vaccinated in Africa, so I understand that your colleague Vandenbroucke says that the fastest way is to give a vaccine to the poorest people. However, this does not seem to be possible with the existing mechanisms. I believe that the world needs to be made clear that COVAX is a well-intentioned initiative, but it is hampered by vaccine nationalism, distribution and logistics problems and promises that are not achieved in time. In addition, you are taking wonderful initiatives in Senegal and South Africa, but it takes too long for us to get the people vaccinated. At the moment, the most feasible initiative is the dose sharing that we are also working on, namely those 4 million vaccines that we hope will soon get on the ground. When I hear you mention the figures, it seems to me to be the case, unless you contradict me. Today I also read the call from my old boss, Reginald Moreels, who says that people don't really know how bad it is on the premises. He is currently employed in Benin and Congo, where people die from covid. I therefore believe that, in the short term, we should continue to focus on dose sharing and that we should try to increase the numbers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic595x.u65	Madam Chair, Minister, this September 22, Ms.Lalieux, your colleague and Minister for Disability, presented the Federal Disability Action Plan. This plan lists a series of very specific measures that need to improve the integration of persons with disabilities into our society. Of the five measures related to the international promotion of the rights of persons with disabilities in the Federal Disability Action Plan, one is directly within your jurisdiction. It specifically aims to take account of the rights of persons with disabilities in Belgian development cooperation programmes. In your opinion, minister, could this be considered one of your priorities? How do you envisage it in practice? What is or will be the implementation schedule?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic595x.u66	Mr Ben Achour, human rights are at the heart of my policy. The funded project and programme must adopt a human rights-based approach. Belgian international cooperation fully subscribes to the principle of leaving no one behind, which is the basis of sustainable development objectives. Through this commitment, I want to end discrimination and exclusion, as well as reduce inequalities and vulnerabilities. In concrete terms, this commitment is reflected in the various Belgian Development Cooperation programmes. First, there is the funding of civil society organisations specializing in the inclusion and promotion of the rights of persons with disabilities, such as Humanity & Inclusion (formerly Handicap International). These organizations are funded through non-governmental cooperation, as well as humanitarian assistance. With regard to non-governmental cooperation, new programmes had been submitted. They are analyzed by my administration and will begin in 2022 for a period of five years. Secondly, there is horizontal integration and therefore specific actions by humanitarian actors to meet the needs of people with disabilities. Thirdly, a number of Belgian Development Cooperation projects focus on persons with disabilities in order to give priority to human rights and the principle of leaving no one behind. A Humanity & Inclusion project is under way, for example in Mali. It focuses on persons with disabilities in the context of sexual violence. Another example is in the DRC where the Royal Museum of Central Africa has a project on mental health care for people with mental disabilities. Through these actions, I want to create opportunities for those who see no one today and who are left behind. As I mentioned in my policy statement, particular attention is and will always be given to inclusiveness.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic595x.u67	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic595x.u68	Madam President, Minister, at the beginning of August Pfizer and Moderna announced that they would increase the price of their corona vaccines by 25% and 13% respectively. This happened just days after Oxfam published a study that showed that these vaccines are already sold five times too expensive anyway. As I said earlier, it is well known that the farmareuzen have received hundreds of billions of State aid for the development of these vaccines, which are largely based on research carried out by public institutions. In addition, they also received guaranteed massive purchase contracts. So they have already passed the checkout three times before this absurd price increase, which would cost Belgium alone 92 million euros more. For COVAX and the global south this means that there will be even fewer vaccines pouring through to the 85% of humanity who is not lucky enough to be born in one of the rich countries. It is of course no coincidence that this price increase comes at a time when the same companies lobby to sell a third dose to the people of the rich countries, no doubt through the same secret contracts they conclude with the European Commission. It is therefore high time that the disastrous profit appetite of the farmarists was reduced and that we showed real solidarity with the rest of the world's population, even if it was self-interest that was understood. Madam Secretary, have you already protested against this intention in the companies involved? Have you called at European level for this price increase to be refused and for secret contracts for vaccines to be made public, so that citizens can check how much resources are actually going to these companies? Has that price increase been implemented yet? How much has that cost our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic595x.u69	Madam President, Mr De Vuyst, first of all I would like to say that you are absolutely right that international solidarity should not be a charity, but that it should provide structural solutions. COVAX is a mechanism created to respond quickly and decisively, but we do not think it is a sustainable solution. That is why we have invested in factories that can vaccinate more than just vaccines. Belgium has deliberately chosen to contribute to the international mechanism COVAX for global access to vaccines. Gavi has negotiated the name COVAX, with eleven pharmaceutical companies that have developed COVID-19 vaccines that have been internationally approved. Gavi has concluded purchase agreements with those companies and obtained a negotiated price. I have not yet received any information from COVAX that the price increase by Pfizer and Moderna would also have an impact on the COVAX programme. So far, mainly AstraZeneca vaccines have been delivered and, in particular, the African partner countries are being used on Johnson & Johnson's vaccine, which works with a single dose and is easier to distribute and store. Both AstraZeneca and Johnson & Johnson have agreed to provide their non-profit doses until the pandemic is over. It is clear that the subject of vaccine prices is important and must be followed up in order to ensure that the vaccines with which we can overcome the public health crisis remain accessible and are distributed fairly. That's the position I'm taking in COVAX. At European level, the Belgian experts of the Public Health Office participate in the negotiations on the contracts. I suggest that you question Minister Vandenbroucke on the state of play in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic595x.u70	Madam Minister, colleagues in the Committee on Health will of course continue to ask these questions. I also refer to the heading I mentioned in the previous question. By continuing to give the farmaires free rein, to set their own prices and to place intellectual property rights and profit maximization in the most literal sense of the word above millions of human lives, we are not only committing a crime against humanity in the long term, but also abandoning the global south for a great deal. This will be followed up further.
