ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic607x.u1	Minister, for the second time last July, the European Commission published its report on the rule of law. And for the second time in a row, Hungary and Poland are explicitly pinned for the violations they bring to the fundamental values of the European Union. In his speech on the State of the Union on 15 September, Ursula von der Leyen once again stressed the need not to stigmatise Hungary or Poland, and to favour dialogue. Of which act. However, it has been more than ten years now that the governments of these Member States deliberately and with impunity are detriguing the rule of law. I am therefore pleased that the European Commissioner for Justice has asked the Court of Justice of the European Union (CJEU) to impose periodic penalty payments on Poland for non-compliance with the independence of the judiciary, in particular. This non-compliance has been sadly illustrated on several occasions. This began in 2017, when a disciplinary chamber was set up, which in recent months has the power to lift the immunity of judges who dare to question the reforms of the Polish judiciary. This was followed, inter alia, by decisions of the Polish Constitutional Court on 22 October 2020, considering that the existing legislation allowing voluntary termination of pregnancy (IVG) in the event of malformation of the foetus was incompatible with the Polish Constitution. Or, most recently, on 7 October, when the court held that Polish law prevailed over European law. In addition, the recovery plans for both Poland and Hungary are currently being frozen by the European Commission. The Commission expects to have sufficient guarantees, respectively, on the independence of the judiciary and on the fight against corruption. In the context of the infringement proceedings initiated by the European Commission against Hungary on the homophobic law of 15 June, does Belgium intend to bring an action before the ECJ in support of the Commission? Do you not consider that this would be a strong and appropriate gesture given the importance of the interests at stake? Does Belgium support the initiative of the European Parliament, which intends to attack the Commission for failure to act? What are the levers that you have used or will use in the future to encourage Poland to comply with the CJEU's decision on the independence of judges, but also to put an end to the disciplinary chamber referred to in the judgment? Finally, in what concrete way do you support Hungarian and Polish civil society pending decisions on recovery plans? And what do you envisage if the recovery plans were eventually not to be granted? Will you subsidize human rights associations? For example, the Forbidden Colours association, which defends the rights of LGBTQs in both countries. It has been subsidized by the Dutch Government, as well as NGOs that support women's rights. These activists denounce an increasingly hostile and dangerous environment for all women's rights activists, one year after the almost total ban on abortion by the Polish Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic607x.u2	Madam Minister for Foreign Affairs, on 7 October last the Polish Constitutional Court, the country's highest court, ruled against the primacy of certain articles of the European treaties over the country's Constitution. According to the court, several articles of the treaties of the European Union are "incompatible", I quote, with the Polish texts. In doing so, the Polish justice system is attacking one of the founding principles of the European Union, which is described by some as "a coup d'état against the rule of law". Despite this, Poland reiterated that it did not want to leave the European Union. The Head of Government recalled that, for him, "the place of Poland is and will be in the European family of nations". A few weeks ago, the European Economic Commissioner, Paolo Gentiloni, warned that payments of the European recovery plan could be conditional on respect for the rule of law, which in this case could threaten Poland. Minister, what is the reaction of Belgium and its analysis following this decision of the Polish Correctional Court? In concrete terms, what are the levers for action available to the European Union as a result of this decision? Apart from the recovery plan, could other European subsidies be threatened with suspension? This crisis appears at a time when the authority of the Court of Justice of the European Union is regularly called into question and when no concrete mechanism exists to respond to such attacks. Some experts consider it necessary to establish a new treaty that would specifically provide for sanctions for such cases. Do you think this is an option to consider? Finally, the possibility of an exit from Poland is, despite the statements I made to you, regularly discussed. What is your vision on the subject?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic607x.u3	Madam President, Madam Minister, it has been known for a long time that the government of this ultra-conservative party, Law and Justice, is attacking not only women's rights but is also limiting all counter-powers in Poland. Democracy is in real danger. The Polish Constitutional Court challenges Articles 1 and 19 of the European Treaty. Article 19 refers to the European Court and the supremacy of the interpretation of the European Court into European law. It is, of course, the fundamental freedoms of the Union that are being attacked. It seems to me important to send a strong signal to Poland reminding it that European fundamental rights are not like a menu in which we will pick up what suits us and where we will leave what suits us a little less. Otherwise, it is obviously the door open to all sorts of drifts, not only in Poland but also in Hungary and elsewhere in Europe. I think it's really essential to remind her that she can't change the rules of the game. Poland, by joining the European Union, knew that European law had priority. No one forced him to join Europe. However, as we have seen recently during demonstrations on the streets in Poland, a majority of Poles want to live in a strong Poland at the heart of a strong European Union. Madam Minister, the current sanctions put in place by the Union do not seem to be very effective in view of the escalation of tensions. What other mechanisms can be put in place today to ensure respect for the rule of law in Poland and thus to guarantee the effectiveness of the Charter of Human Rights, particularly in Poland? Does Belgium actively support and seek a qualified majority for the triggering of the cross-compliance mechanism, which allows the suspension or reduction of European funds allocated to a State such as Poland? Indeed, it would be the climax of continuing to reward with European funds a state that ultimately contravenes the common rules of the European game.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic607x.u4	Madam President, Minister, many things have already been said. I also think that this momentum that we experienced on Thursday 7 October is serious for the functioning of the European Union, also in relation to accession to it. Once again, and I fully agree with my colleague Mr Cogolati, the European Union, these are rights but also duties. These are duties to which we have deliberately subjected ourselves by joining this Union. This is something important, to which each member must adhere. It must be noted, however, that in Poland or Hungary things are no longer conceived in this way. For example, this decision of the Polish Constitutional Court, which no longer recognizes the supremacy of European law over its domestic positive law, has been said, and this is based on things that underpin the core values of the European Union. That's not right! This is not right, and Didier Reynders, our Justice Commissioner, has already stated that the Union will "use all the tools" at its disposal to ensure that the hierarchy of standards, which makes European law prevail over domestic positive law, is respected. Madam Minister, how can we also make a strong, courageous contribution in the future? What are our levers? What are the possibilities for sanction? What are the chances of seeing Poland or Hungary leading to something more like harmonisation than is currently the case?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic607x.u5	Madam Minister, I refer to my written question. I would like to add one more question. I asked the Prime Minister yesterday whether the rule of law should be applied here. He replied that the ruling of the European Court of Justice was awaited. I saw yesterday at the General Affairs Council that you called for this to be applied as soon as possible. Do you see that for the decision of the European Court or after?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic607x.u6	Madam President, I will only repeat what has already been said, but in the circumstances it is worth insisting on. Indeed, the highest Polish court ruled on 7 October against the absolute supremacy of European Community law. It's extremely serious. The Court stated that certain articles of the EU Treaty were "incompatible" with the Polish Constitution and urged the European institutions not to "act beyond the scope of their powers" by interfering with the Polish judicial system, which constitutes a major source of discord with Brussels. The European Commission said it was "concerned" by the Polish court's decision. According to Justice Commissioner Didier Reynders, the decision "concerns several fundamental principles of the organisation of the Union". It could also make the payments of the Recovery Plan conditional on respect for the rule of law. More and more conservative measures have been taken for several months by the ruling Nationalist Conservative Party Law and Justice (PiS). Minister, what position did Belgium take as a result of this announcement? Does it support the conditionality measures imposed by the EU? Do you think that Poland ends up leaving the Union? If so, what could be the consequences for the stability of the Member States and the Polish population?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic607x.u7	Madam President, Minister, the Polish Constitutional Court recently ruled that the primacy of EU law to Polish national law is not always constitutional. The Constitutional Court rejected the primacy of EU law if the European Union crosses its jurisdiction. Polish laws can take precedence over laws from Brussels, if the European Union did not have explicit competence as a result of the application of European treaties. According to Eurocrats such as Joseph Borrell and Didier Reynders, the ruling of the Polish Constitutional Court undermines European legislation which all Member States must comply with. That is in fact bizarre, because the French Conseil d'État and the German Bundesverfassungsgericht have done so recently. Madam Secretary, I have some questions for you. What is the government's position on the ruling of the Polish Constitutional Court? Why is there such a fuss about a Polish judgment when German and French magistrates have already reached the same conclusion?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic607x.u8	Madam President, Minister, I agree with the introduction and the questions put by my fellow Members. This is a very topical debate, which had already been announced during the summer, in particular on how we deal with the violation of the rule of law in certain Member States. We must have levers for that. Yesterday there was also a discussion on this issue in the European Parliament. A resolution will be adopted by the end of the week. Article 7 was discussed, as was infringement proceedings and activation of the conditionality mechanism. We can already see that the European Commission itself is struggling with different mechanisms. It has applied them to Igbtqia areas in Poland, with four of them being eliminated promptly. An infringement procedure was also applied. How does the European Union deal with this? It is also very clear to our group that what is happening in Poland and Hungary cannot, because the European Union is also a community of values. There are many political interests but also economic interests. However, the aspect of community of values is more important than ever in the present world, which seeks to polarize and keep us apart. However, we need more flexible instruments. It is good that the European Court is currently considering the conditionality mechanism. What procedure are you in favour of? Is it also your view that mechanisms should be more flexible than they are today? Article 7 is a very difficult procedure. The conditionality mechanism offers more possibilities. Should we do so for specific resources or for general means, if the rule of law is violated? These are questions that all live at the level of the European Commission and the Member States. My question is very specific: what is the position of Belgium in this and what mechanism should we be in favour of?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic607x.u9	Madam Secretary, we really need to pay attention to the inclined plane. There have been developments in Poland and Hungary in recent months and years which require us to activate a number of measures, so that we do not slip further and, for example, do not put further pressure on the independence of the legal system. According to a judgment of the Constitutional Court in Poland, two important articles of the European Treaty are incompatible with the Polish Constitution.. It concerns Article 1, the ever closer Union, and Article 19, which states that the European Court of Justice has a central role to play in ensuring the application of European law. There's two problems with it. Firstly, the primacy of European law is guaranteed, although in the competences transferred by the Member States to the European Union. Everyone knows that's an important nuance, but even there's a problem. Secondly, there has been a statement by the Polish Prime Minister in the European Parliament that the constitutional courts in the EU Member States have the right to monitor the implementation of European law within the powers conferred on the European Union by the Member States. That is, of course, wrong, because the European Court of Justice has the monopoly to carry out that review. After all, if we leave it to politicised courts, national courts, especially in Poland, then I think we have a problem and that the application of European law in a country such as Poland is no longer guaranteed. The risk of this is that equality, between citizens and between Member States, and the application of a number of European values, which are enshrined in the legislation, will be called into question. My question is what the Belgian position is in this regard. In any case, it is our group's question to stop the slanting plane and therefore to prepare and activate a number of measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic607x.u10	Madam Minister, the Polish Constitutional Court laid a bomb under the foundations of our European Union. The Court ruled that European law is subordinate to the Polish Constitution. By doing so, Poland denies, contrary to all the rules of primacy, that European law takes precedence over national law. The so-called primacy of Community law was laid down in the famous Costa/ENEL judgment in 1964. In it, the judges of the European Court of Justice said that European law takes precedence over national law if the two are in conflict with each other. The judgment is one of the foundations of what the European Union is today. Those foundations, which Poland endorsed when it joined the European club, are once again being questioned. Denying them is simply not an option. One joins a club and one accepts the rules. If they don't follow the rules, they leave the club. Poland is legally outside the Union with the ruling. That first step has already taken. We cannot afford this constitutional crisis. The size is full. Are you going to argue that the rule of law mechanism should be activated and applied to Poland, so that the EUR 57 billion earmarked for Poland is blocked? What is the state of play in the procedure under Article 7 of the EU Treaty against Poland? What action does the European Commission intend to take in concrete terms?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic607x.u11	Madam President, no later than yesterday, we discussed this issue in Luxembourg with my fellow European Affairs Ministers. This is a topical issue that is particularly important to those who believe in Europe's added value and its fundamental values, to those who believe that Europe is more than a gathering of countries that share common interests. If we question these values, we find ourselves on a slippery slope, even very slippery. In reply to Mrs Rohonyi's question on the Hungarian law of 15 June, I confirm that Belgium is indeed considering bringing an action before the Court of Justice of the European Union (CJEU) to support the Commission if it comes to the Court of Justice in its infringement proceedings against Hungary on this legislation. As a reminder, the Commission identified no fewer than eight violations of EU law and initiated the first stage of this infringement procedure by sending a letter of formal notice to Hungary, which had a period of two months to respond. It is now up to the Commission to assess this response, possibly to send a reasoned opinion to Hungary, asking it to comply with Union law. In the event of non-compliance with this reasoned opinion and within two months of its dispatch, the Commission may refer the matter to the Court. Belgium follows this procedure closely. We were at the basis of a statement co-signed by the other 17 Member States on the sidelines of the General Affairs Council on 22 June, asking the Commission to refer this homophobic law to the Court of Justice of the European Union. I would remind you that we cannot plead everything and its opposite. We cannot ask the Member States to respect the rule of law and ourselves, because the situation is unacceptable, not to respect this rule of law. It comes with frustrations that I understand. I think it's slow and long. It's amazing that you can't react faster and stronger to this type of behavior. At the same time, that is also the rule of law. It's that respect and not that when it suits us. I know you share that view. With regard to Poland, the Polish Constitutional Court delivered a judgment on Thursday, 7 October, in which it concluded that certain articles of the European treaties were incompatible with its national Constitution and would undermine the sovereignty of the country, believing that certain European bodies, in particular the Court of Justice, would act beyond their competence. The court ruled on a matter submitted by the Prime Minister in order to determine whether the Court of Justice of the European Union went too far in its decisions on the Polish judicial system and exceeded its competence under the Treaties. He filed this appeal in March after two decisions of the CJEU which had found that the new system of selection of judges in Poland was contrary to European law and had also suspended the Disciplinary Chamber of the Supreme Court of Poland considering that its judgements were politically oriented with the aim of excluding judges who disliked power. What is in the judgment and what are its consequences? In particular, the Polish court attacked two specific articles of the EU Treaty: Article 1, which determines the existence of the EU and the conferral of powers by the Member States, and Article 19, which determines the powers of the European Court of Justice of the European Union. The judgment states that these articles may be contrary to the Polish Constitution. Those legal provisions are interpreted as conferring on the EU institutions a power which exceeds the limit agreed by Poland upon accession to the Treaties and which has the effect of allowing the Court of Justice of the European Union or the Polish judicial authority to override Polish law. This declaration is the first time that a judicial authority of a European Member State has considered that the provisions of the EU Treaties are incompatible with the national Constitution. What is more, at the request of the Prime Minister of this country! What is the government's position? As I made very clear on behalf of the Benelux countries at the General Affairs Council in Luxembourg, Belgium is very concerned about this decision which undermines the protection of judicial independence, as guaranteed by the Treaties and interpreted by the European Court of Justice. This decision undermines the essence of the European project, and that is unacceptable. Each Member State that joined the European Union was clearly aware of the rules and acquis, of which our fundamental values and respect for the rule of law are, of course, part. We can, of course, debate the political orientation of the European Union and even its functioning. But if we weaken this foundation of the European Union, there is a risk that we will destroy more than 70 years of progress, solidarity and cooperation. As the European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen rightly pointed out, "Without independent courts, people are less well protected and their rights are at stake. Only a common legal order guarantees equal rights, legal certainty and mutual trust between Member States and thus a common policy." The EU Court of Justice and its rulings cannot be ignored or destroyed without endangering our judicial level, the fight against corruption and the responsible use of EU funds, to mention just a few important elements that are directly at risk here. Is it, however, moving towards a Polexit or an exit from Poland from the European Union, as many commentators have suggested? A priori no. This judgment may not be regarded as a declaration of secession or an indirect activation of Article 50. The conservative national coalition in power does not a priori support a project of exit comparable to Brexit. In any event, it has made this very clear in a public way as a result of this judgment. Like you, I note that the overwhelming Polish majority, whatever its political views, remains very attached to the European Union, which is seen above all as a guarantee of economic prosperity. Demonstrations have taken place in this direction. What should be our reaction? What levers do we have? First, the Commission is examining in detail the Polish Constitutional Court's ruling and its potential effects. Yesterday I asked the Commission to share its conclusions with all the Member States and to make clear the practical consequences of non-compliance with Community law in all relevant areas of European cooperation. Belgium also calls on the Commission to use proactively all the instruments at its disposal to safeguard the Treaties, the functioning of the European Union, including its financial interests. In general, we believe that rapid and decisive action is needed to address systemic threats to the rule of law in several Member States. In this case, this goes through an infringement procedure which the Commission, as guardian of the Treaties, will have to bring before the Court of Justice and which may lead to severe financial penalties or periodic penalty payments. However, as we know, this is not enough. The Commission is therefore asked to make use of the rule of law conditionality regulation as soon as possible, and to give serious consideration to additional measures to deal with the inherent risks posed by the deterioration of the rule of law to future disbursements of funds, including – I would like to draw your attention to this point – in the decision-making process concerning the approval of the recovery plan. Belgium continues to support the political agreement reached by the European Council in December 2020 on the cross compliance mechanism that provides for the Commission to issue directives before applying the Regulation in question, in order to ensure that measures taken under this Regulation cannot later be challenged legally. As you know, Hungary and Poland are challenging this regulation at the Court of Justice of the European Union and Belgium is one of the countries that strongly defends this conditionality mechanism. Our country also intervened in support of the European Parliament and the Council at the joint hearing held on 11 and 12 October before the Court of Justice of the European Union. The procedure has now been closed and the opinion of the Advocate General in this case is scheduled for 2 December. The Court will then examine the case and the judgment is expected in spring 2022. It will therefore take some time for this conditionality mechanism to be applied. But we believe that we should not sit back and do nothing. We encourage the Commission to take action as soon as possible within the framework of this conditionality regulation and to investigate and prepare for possible cases of infringement falling within the scope of this regulation. Indeed, the exchange of information on possible infringements by Member States can already be started, but the final decision on the imposition of possible sanctions, i.e. suspension of funds to be taken by the Council, will follow at a later stage, following the decision of the European Court of Justice on the Polish and Hungarian appeals. This option would make it possible to make progress on possible infringements now, taking into account the political agreement of the December 2020 European Council. Finally, Belgium supports the principle of extending the current Article 7 procedure against Poland and Hungary in order to ensure that the mandate of that procedure correctly reflects the deterioration of the rule of law in these two countries in recent years. So much for the procedure. More generally, I would also like us to have an open and in-depth dialogue with Poland and Hungary on all these issues. These two countries have their place in the Union and it is therefore essential to talk to each other and to understand each other better and to remain in dialogue. Mrs Samyn, the Polish judgment is more worrying for several reasons than the previous rulings of German and French magistrates. The verdict comes from a tribunal which is not independent, but the spokesperson of the Polish Government. In fact, the ruling came at the request of the Polish Prime Minister himself, as I have already said. The Polish judgment attacks essential elements of the EU Treaty, in particular Article 1, which is the basis on which the European Union is founded, and Article 19, which is the legal basis for the functioning of the EU Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic607x.u12	There was also a question by Mr Cogolati about the Belgian position in relation to pushbacks on the Polish border. If they are proven, we will obviously not accept them. At the Justice and Home Affairs Council held earlier this month, Belgium once again stressed the need for common procedures in full respect of fundamental rights for every person arriving at the borders of the European Union. In addition, we stressed the absolute respect for the principle of non-refoulement, and I myself again stressed yesterday in preparation for the summit that these principles should be respected in the proposals for conclusion, in the context of the importance of respect for international law throughout border procedures. There is a consensus among all parties of the majority of the government that the right to asylum is a fundamental right. Our country also calls for active monitoring of border procedures, notably by the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights. In order to have a clear view from the Commission's point of view, I also encourage those who have not to do so to read Mrs von der Leyen's statement to Parliament yesterday morning. This statement consists of two pages and, in my view, is written in a sufficiently clear language.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic607x.u13	Minister, I particularly thank you for your very well-substantiated and determined response, as usual. As far as Poland is concerned, I understand that you raised the issue at the Luxembourg Council, but also that you have asked the Commission to act proactively to ensure compliance with the Treaties. As far as Hungary is concerned, however, I understand that the procedures must be followed. That's right. But as you said, a formal notice was sent to Hungary, which was required to respond within a certain period of time. This deadline expired on 15 September. I think it is time to begin the next step that you mentioned earlier, namely to send a reasoned opinion to the European Commission. In all these cases, the difficulty is that we are faced with prime ministers, be they Polish Prime Minister Morawiecki or Hungarian Prime Minister Orban, who are particularly intelligent. Today, they are victimizing themselves, denouncing relentlessly against them and lying to their people about the consequences of their actions. In the face of this situation, it must be possible to be a pedagogue and to explain that when the stimulus plans or European funds are conditional on respect for the rule of law, it is in no way an action that is taken against the Hungarian or Polish people, but instead it is a matter of acting in the interest of these people, to ensure that these funds go well to the people and businesses in need and not to the governments that are corrupt. Today we are facing a serious problem of respect for the principle of the separation of powers, with total control of justice by the Polish and Hungarian governments, which is justified by the need to clear the communist judiciary. We know very well how strong the communist trauma is in these countries, and these governments are playing on it. I am very well placed to know how this still works with these people today. We must be implacable about this. It must be said that this cannot under any circumstances justify such an infringement of the rule of law. Madam Minister, you have seen that there are many of us asking you about this. I wanted to tell you how much we support you in the actions that you are going to undertake, and that you have already undertaken, to safeguard the independence of the judiciary, to depoliticize courts and tribunals and to avoid a Polexit. A Polexit would be a devastating failure for the European Union, but it would also be a catastrophe for the Polish population, which would thus be totally abandoned to its fate. This is also why we must ensure that Polish civil society is given unwavering support in all its actions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic607x.u14	Madam Minister, I thank you for your clear and reasoned response and for your action, together with your European counterparts, particularly from the Benelux countries. Poland - that of the Polish people - is pro-European. The Poles showed this during the massive demonstrations last weekend. This goes against the decisions of the Polish Constitutional Court defended - head down, it must be said - by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. As you recalled, this is a first in the European Union. The central role of the Court of Justice of the European Union is enshrined in the Treaty of Lisbon, which Poland ratified in 2008, following its accession to our common values in 2004. The very essence of European integration is shared sovereignty, where common benefits go hand in hand with common rules. If the Polish State perseveres in this coup against the rule of law, I think it will be inflexible. It is a question of the credibility and soundness of the European project.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic607x.u15	Thank you for your very clear position, Minister. The decline in the rule of law throughout the European Union - in Poland but also in Hungary and even in other countries - is a very worrying trend. If the Commission and the European Council remain the crusaders, the autocrats throughout Europe will continue to act with impunity. It is important to adopt very courageous, strong and proactive positions like yours today, so that the Commission can clarify how it intends to use the rule of law conditionality mechanism. As long as the independence of the judiciary is not guaranteed, it is very difficult for us to determine how Poland and its government will use the funds and whether they will be allocated for the intended purposes. Under the current circumstances, it is very clear that the Commission cannot approve Poland's national recovery plan. The rule of law must be restored, maintained and protected at all costs.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic607x.u16	Madam Minister, I thank you for your very clear response, your arguments that I fully agree with and for putting the points on the i on principles that we share mostly in this committee, namely respect for the rule of law. It is a fundamental principle that is part of the fundamental values of the Member States of the European Union. This principle must therefore be protected, guaranteed, especially when one realizes that, in the end, the Polish people are also raising up against what their political leaders want to impose on them. I want to look forward to the upcoming elections to be able to reverse this trend which is detrimental to the European Union and to what is the essence of our values. As my excellent colleague De Maegd said, what is also fundamental and essential to membership of the European Union is the sharing of sovereignty. Don't forget it!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic607x.u17	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. First of all, I would like to say that we support your position and your message. A debate on this subject does not appear to be evident. I note that some parties continue to support the Polish Government, even though the foundations of the European Union and European cooperation are being attacked, and even though the fundamental rights of Polish citizens are being attacked head-on by their own government. The political influence of the Polish Constitutional Court by the government, the destruction of the rule of law, the undermining of the functioning of democracy, the independent press, the attacks on human rights, the rights of minorities, should be unacceptable to everyone. It is certainly unacceptable to us. I note that there are other voices in the debate, but it must be clear that such things cannot be done for us. We do, however, call for the legal state mechanism to be activated as soon as possible within the framework of the multiannual budget, as you pointed out. I believe that this procedure can be started, even though the directives have not yet been published and the European Court of Justice has not yet given its ruling. I think you can take steps forward here. I think it is also necessary to review the procedure laid down in Article 7. We're not getting anywhere. We're stuck in there. I think that we need to think more structuralally, because the tools that we now have to protect fundamental rights are rather limited, which means very little movement. Of course, we have the budgets, but I think that a revision of Article 7 is really much needed. Our concern is also with the Polish population, one of the most pro-European populations throughout the European Union. We must not forget that today they are bearing the consequences of the anti-European war rhetoric of their government. We would like to ask the European Commission to consider how the financial resources in the European multiannual budget and the European Recovery Fund can be used directly to support the values set out in the European Treaties, for example by direct funding of civil society or organisations committed to human rights and democracy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic607x.u18	We cannot allow a Member State to question the foundations of the European Union in any way. These legal bases are of particular importance for the proper functioning of our internal market and provide security. When judges ignore binding judgments, we end up in a jungle. Let us not forget, as the previous speaker rightly said, that as many as 80% of Poles support the European project. The Polish people believe in the Union and the European Commission must certainly not turn their backs on them. I therefore hope that the Polish Government will soon come to its senses.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic607x.u19	Your position was clear and right, Madam Secretary. I think it is important that the communication and position of the governments of the other Member States are equally clear. It can have an impact on the European Commission's position if it is debated in many national parliaments. It is certainly also heartfelt by the many hundreds of thousands of Poles coming out to protest against their government's policy. I believe that support from different parliaments is important. This is about European values and freedoms, but also about the essence of the European Union and of the European project. If a Constitutional Court of a Member State has problems with the possibility for the European Court of Justice to move away from national legislation and judgments of national courts, that of course affects the functioning of the European Union right at heart. Above all, I remember that you from the government are calling for a rapid response and that our country will ask the European Commission to prepare for action. They can be financial, but they can also be political as far as we are concerned. The most important thing is to act, but the rule of law must be followed. That is the rule of law that we ourselves are passionately defending.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic607x.u20	Madam Minister, I cannot get the impression that a eurocratic machine is being set in motion immediately to call Member States to order when those decisions are not being taken by the EU. I find it rather odd that there is no fuss when other national courts ask questions about the primacy of the EU. I refer once again to the German Federal Constitutional Court and the French Constitutional Court. When it comes to Poland, there will be hysterical reactions to these statements and there will be a wave of punitive statements, there will be calls for sanctions and the European Commission will be threatened with periodic penalty payments for Poland. When Spain throws politicians in prison because they stand up for their right to self-determination, because they stand up for their Catalan cause, there is no threat of periodic penalty payments, there is no threat of sanctions. No, then that is an internal Spanish issue. Apparently, one European country is not the other.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic607x.u21	Madam President, I do not agree at all with what you have just said, but that is not the subject of my speech. Minister, thank you for your answers. I also thank you for your political line on behalf of the government. Your posture is, in my opinion, the right one. As has been said, the European Union cannot be reduced to a single market. The European Union is above all a community of values. Here we are faced with two rather important issues. The first is the situation of the Polish people, who are subject to further restrictions on their rights and freedoms. The second is an existential issue for the European project as such, which is now insulted by the Polish government. We therefore support you when you say that you want to use all diplomatic and legal means to compel Poland to comply with the rules. We cannot be outside the European project when it suits, and be in it when it comes to receiving subsidies.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic607x.u22	I do not want to go into any further debate, but I would like to have the opportunity, in writing or in any other way, to show you that what is happening in Germany and France in relation to what is happening in Hungary is of a totally different order. You are indeed using the rhetoric of Poland and Hungary rather than questioning yourself. In our ministerial committee at European level or European affairs we often have a strong dialogue but we always remain respectful. I'm also glad that's what's happening here. I would like to thank you for that. However, on another occasion, I would like to make it clear to you that this is a different kind of decision at legal level. I would have liked to add that. We all have our own political position, which is normal, and I do not expect us to share the same political position tomorrow, but I still insist on giving you the right information.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic607x.u23	Minister, on 20 September Lebanon finally managed to form a government. This formation comes after 13 months of a serious political crisis. The Mikati government, which has just taken office, is now responsible for the very important task of putting an end to the economic crisis that has been taking place in the country for far too long. As we know, this economic crisis is the source of many ills, as evidenced by the current dramatic situation of near-black out throughout Lebanon. More electricity, more fuel, very limited and out-of-price access to basic necessities, food or medicine, shops in distress, hospitals that are poorly equipped and saturated due to the pandemic. A situation that benefits crime and the black market. Last January, I had already asked you about the ongoing crisis in Lebanon and you replied on that occasion that Lebanon had not called for additional assistance. This has now been done since 24 September, since President Aoun announced at the UNGA you attended, that he was counting on the international community to finance the projects essential for Lebanon's economic recovery, but also to recover the funds transferred abroad and the proceeds of corruption. Hence my questions, Madam Minister. Are you going to meet the new Prime Minister of Lebanon? If so, what are the topics you would like to discuss with him? Does Belgium already play a role in the French and, more recently, European commitment to actively seeking a way out of the crisis in Lebanon? In the game of influence between Hezbollah, and Iran by extension, and the United States, around the energy supply in Lebanon, what is the position of Europe and Belgium? In view of its obvious interest, has France requested Belgian or European support? Following President Aoun's appeal, did you contact the Lebanese authorities to find out the precise nature of the aid they need? How do you plan to monitor the demand for aid in our country to recover the funds and proceeds of corruption?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic607x.u24	Madam President, Madam Minister, on 14 October, clashes between Shiite and Christian militiamen in the popular district of Tayouneh in Beirut took place. The death toll is heavy, with six dead and some 30 injured, according to figures from the Lebanese Red Cross. The violence took place on the margins of a demonstration organized by the Shiite Amal movement. He accused the Lebanese Forces, a radical Christian organization (ex-phalangist), of being at the origin of the incident. But it is clearly necessary to be careful about the circumstances that led to this tragedy. In any case, the symbol is strong because we are just a few blocks away from the place that saw, in 1975, the first sparks that led to the civil war. Since September 10, Lebanon has had – finally – a full-fledged government, even though I have no illusions as to the capacity of this government, which, until its summit, counts people suspected of serious corruption. However, the multiple crises (economic, health and governance) facing Lebanese citizens have not disappeared. I have regularly referred here to the endemic corruption that affects all strata of the state. As a result, there is a great risk that Lebanon will soon face a complete collapse, which could bring the seeds of a new civil conflict that could have repercussions on its neighbouring countries. In this regard, the events that occurred a few days ago sound like a warning. Moreover, there is much to bet that the approach to the elections scheduled for next spring will help fuel tensions a little more. We must therefore remain vigilant. Minister, what information do you have from our diplomatic representation on the spot about the evolution of the political and security situation? Has an analysis been carried out at European level? What are the possible conclusions? What is the situation with regard to the creation of a new sanctions regime? I would point out that a judicial audit of the Bank of Lebanon has been called for for a long time and that this raises a great deal of political tension. This audit seems essential to me, in addition to the investigation into the explosion in the port of Beirut that occurred in August last year.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic607x.u25	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your questions about Lebanon, which is actually going through at least a difficult period. Belgium condemns the recent violence in Lebanon and our thoughts go to the victims and their loved ones. From the beginning, we called for calm and an independent investigation into the explosion that took place in Beirut last year. We reiterated this call last week. As far as the situation on the ground is concerned, our services in Brussels and Beirut are closely following its developments. The violent demonstration, which took place on 14 October, resulted in an official assessment of seven victims and thirty-two injured, several of whom were reportedly in critical condition. It all began with a demonstration led by the Shiite parties Hezbollah and Amal near the courthouse to request the dismissal of the investigating judge Tarek Bitar in charge of the investigation of the explosion, the latter being accused by Hezbollah and Amal of partiality, of politicizing the investigation against, among others, deputies and former Shiite ministers. The courthouse in Tayouneh is located at the crossroads of various neighbourhoods, next to the Christian district of Ain el-Remmaneh and the Shiite district of Shiyah. The courthouse is therefore close to the old green line, the dividing line between Christian and Muslim neighbourhoods during the civil war. Shortly after 11 a.m., gunfire was fired at the demonstrators from the Christian neighbourhoods of Tayounah and Ain al-Remmaneh. It has been reported that these were snipers. Hezbollah pointed to the Lebanese Forces, a Christian political party that was in a militia during the civil war, which themselves denied. The Shiite protesters responded to the fire coming from the Christian neighborhood with automatic gunfire and grenades. The army then deployed massively to calm the situation. The European Union condemned the use of violence, expressed its condolences to the families of the victims and called for utmost restraint to avoid further loss of life. The European External Action Service reiterated its wish that the investigation into the explosion of the port of Beirut on 4 August 2020 be completed as soon as possible. It must be impartial, credible, transparent and independent. The investigation should be allowed to proceed without interference in judicial proceedings and those responsible for the explosion should be brought before their responsibilities. We are concerned about this escalation, concerned by the threatening statements of the parties involved since the deadly violence of 14 October. We continue to monitor the situation closely. It should be noted that on 14 October 2021 our embassy had to close for security reasons. Our post immediately called the Belgians on the spot to the vigilance by SMS and via social networks. He also invited Belgians to avoid demonstrations, crowds. Travel advice for Lebanon has also been adjusted and increased vigilance is strongly advised. It is recommended to avoid rallies and to follow the instructions of the law enforcement agencies. The EU sanctions regime of which France was the instigator has not been further developed since its adoption at the European Council on 30 July. On 20 September 2021, after months of political blockade, Lebanon took a step in the right direction by finally giving a new government the confidence of Parliament, as requested by the international community. The priority must be to urgently address all the crises that Lebanon and its people have been facing for a long time. In response to Mrs Rohonyi's questions, at present, a visit on my part to the Lebanese Prime Minister is not envisaged, but our country supports French, European and international efforts to help Lebanon emerge from the crisis it is going through while putting its leaders in front of their responsibilities. In particular, Belgium participated actively in the various donor conferences on Lebanon. Our country remains very committed, particularly in terms of humanitarian aid. Thus, in 2020, our country contributed EUR 10.8 million in humanitarian aid to Lebanon. As far as new commitments are concerned, I propose that you address my colleague from Cooperation. With regard to the question of fuel, our country and the European Union have not adopted a specific position on the various channels through which the fuel supplied to Lebanon passes. The important thing is that the people and institutions who need it will soon have access to this fuel, which is absolutely necessary to turn the country around. In this context, I am not aware of a request from France to support our country or the European Union. With regard to the request for assistance from our country to recover the funds and proceeds of corruption, I think it is my colleague, the Minister of Justice, who will be most able to give you details. Finally, Belgium heard the call for the assistance of President Aoun at the 76th session of the General Assembly. As I said, we welcome the formation of a new government led by Prime Minister Mikati, who we hope will take the necessary steps to bring calm back to the streets, to control the various crises in the country. It won't be easy. The violence of 14 October and the tensions surrounding the investigation into the explosion seem even to block a meeting of the Council of Ministers for the time being. We call on all parties to give priority to the national interest and to the people of Lebanon during this historically difficult period. Social, fiscal and economic structural advances, as well as preparations for next year's elections, are measures that can restore the confidence of the international community, but also create more tension. This is always the case in elections, one does not go without the other. The democratic process has setbacks. Our services are following developments in Lebanon very closely. We will not fail to discuss this again here, and I hope that it will not be in the context of a topical debate that will show that the situation has worsened.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic607x.u26	Thank you for your answer, Minister. I hear all the financial and diplomatic efforts that are being made, and I thank you for that. However, the question remains whether these efforts are sufficient and adequate. You cited this tool put in place by the European Union to put pressure on the Lebanese authorities to make concrete progress in implementing the reforms that are essential, namely this targeted sanctions regime against the Lebanese leadership. However, this tool, which is still not mobilised, does not help to conclude an agreement with the International Monetary Fund. Moreover, it allows us to act only in the long term. However, it is in the short term that the social emergency must be addressed. We must respond to this Lebanese population, which is breathless: four out of five Lebanese live below the poverty line! Hezbollah takes advantage of this social situation by responding to the shortage of fuel, medicines, etc., and presents itself as the great savior of the Lebanese people. In this regard, the Hizbullah leader said on Monday that his movement was more powerful than ever, with 100,000 armed and trained fighters. That's scary, minister, and I know you're aware of it. We are facing a country that is on the brink of civil war. As my colleague has rightly said, this is a situation that cannot be allowed both to the Lebanese and to all the people who live in this area, which is already so fragile.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic607x.u27	Madam Minister, if we are to welcome the formation of the Lebanese government, then we must not delude ourselves either. This will not fundamentally change the situation: in a certain way, we take the same things and start over again. From a safe point of view, some play with matches in the middle of powder barrels. This agitation, which has dramatic consequences, must be reoccurred in the context of the spring elections. The most radical fringes of the Lebanese political scene – in this case Amal on the one hand and the Lebanese Phalangist Forces on the other – are in a dynamic of overbidding to claim to be the best defenders of their respective bases. The Lebanese Forces have not denied the attack; I even think they are bragging about it today. So we need to be careful. Beyond the risk of slipping, the consequence – which is perhaps even the one deliberately targeted – is to divert attention, or even reduce pressure on those who are at the origin of the unprecedented and unprecedented economic turmoil in which Lebanon is located; to divert the attention of those who have emptied the caisses and banks and ruined the Lebanese people. In particular, they had 16 pages removed from the IMF 2016 audit report on the Bank of Lebanon. The report had a net deficit of 4.7 billion, or 10 per cent of GDP. He pointed out that local banks no longer had enough liquidity to deal with a possible crisis. The Governor of the Central Bank of Lebanon, Riad Salamé, managed to censor information that would certainly have better anticipated the current crisis and limited its consequences. The main challenge in Lebanon is corruption. It leads to civil war in this region. There is an urgent need to act against politically exposed persons, some of whom are the subject of judicial investigations in Switzerland or France. If this situation degenerates into a potentially lasting civil war, we will not have the right to offend or deplore it, unless we have first made all the necessary efforts to clean up the deeply corrupt Lebanese system.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic607x.u28	"Madam Minister, this 27 September, for the first time, held a dialogue between the EU and Saudi Arabia on human rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic607x.u29	What were the concrete results achieved by the EU on prisoners of conscience, torture and the death penalty in Saudi Arabia? How did Belgium make its voice heard? What is the next step in the dialogue?"
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic607x.u30	Mr Cogolati, the first human rights dialogue between Saudi Arabia and the European Union took place on 27 September in a constructive atmosphere. Belgium was represented by a member of its Permanent Representation to the European Union invited to attend as an observer, as were representatives of other Member States. I would like to stress the importance of holding this dialogue at which various themes have been raised, such as the ongoing Saudi reforms, freedom of association, expression, the death penalty and the right to a fair trial. On this occasion, the European Union recalled the universality of fundamental rights. Despite differences of opinion, several areas have also been identified for increased collaboration in the future. The list is not exhaustive, but I am thinking in particular of violence against women, the rights of migrant workers, decent work, the right of children to work, hate speech. In order to sustain this dialogue, an invitation was launched for a second edition in Riyadh at the end of 2022. On this occasion, some economic, social and societal reforms that Saudi Arabia has carried out over the past five years were presented. This includes a new legal arsenal, the development of the National Action Plan on Human Rights on women's rights, labour law, the fight against trafficking in human beings, the codification of children's rights, which is expected to be finalized shortly. With regard to freedom of association and expression, the European Union recalled that these freedoms also imply the guarantee of freedom of political opponents, bloggers, whistleblowers, journalists, non-believers, human rights defenders, regardless of the substance of the positions they express. With regard to the death penalty and the right to a fair trial, discussions focused on the need for Saudi Arabia to formalize its right in order to make justice more transparent, fair and predictable. European representatives called for a moratorium on the death penalty, recalling that figures around the world showed that there was no increase in crimes when such a moratorium was introduced. Representatives of the European Union also called for diplomats to be allowed to attend court sessions. With regard to torture, particularly in prison, the Saudi delegation reiterated that it was not permitted. In addition to this dialogue, my services also met with the Chairman of the Saudi Human Rights Commission on 28 September. This meeting provided an opportunity to take stock of the latest developments in the field of human rights. The Saudi side has been open to cooperation and the exchange of good practices in certain areas. My services have emphasized to their Saudi counterparts the reforms in women's rights, the Saudi National Plan of Action on Trafficking in Human Beings and the Rights of the Child. This exchange was an opportunity to recall the Belgian position on the death penalty and the universality of human rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic607x.u31	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic607x.u32	Debates of the European Parliament 55021404C by Mrs Kattrin Jadin will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic607x.u33	Madam Minister, you are of course aware of the situation of Mrs Shatha Odeh and the organisation of which she is director, the Health Work Committees (HWC), which, with ten health centres and two hospitals, are one of the main providers of basic health care in the occupied West Bank. The HWC provides around 400,000 medical services each year and employs more than 350 people. Providing this basic health care is central, and that is of course crucial during the coronapandemic. It is therefore incomprehensible that Mrs Odeh was arrested at home by the Israeli army on 7 July 2021 and is currently in remand. The military court has charged her with being involved in all kinds of fraudulent malpractices. She would be part of an illegal and illegal organization and she would have forged documents. However, if we look at the bigger picture, we see that this is yet another intimidation and attack on Palestinian civil society by the Israeli State. That is all the more striking because the organisation receives broad support from the European Union, including from our country. Mrs Odeh not only fulfils a crucial function for the functioning of the HWC, but also for the umbrella organisation PNGO, called the Palestinian 11.11.11. Also in the European Parliament critical questions have been asked about the Israeli campaign. In addition, several UN rapporteurs and human rights organisations have already strongly condemned this campaign against the HWC. What actions have you and the Belgian Government already taken to condemn the scandalous treatment of a respected organisation and its staff and to demand the immediate release of Mrs Odeh? Does the Belgian embassy send employees to the trial against Ms. Odeh and other HWC employees to highlight our concerns about the questionable course of law? Have you already summoned the Israeli ambassador to this matter, or are you planning to do so? Have you raised this issue at European level, and what is being done at that level? Did you convey your concern about this matter to the World Health Organisation?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic607x.u34	On 26 July, a representative of our Consulate General in Jerusalem, together with other European diplomats, attended the military trial in the case of Ms Shatha Odeh in the Israeli military court in Ofer. For logical reasons it was not possible for our employee or other diplomats to attend the hearing on 4 October. However, they were present in the courthouse building, where they were briefed by the lawyer, NGOs and the family of Mrs Odeh, who had attended the hearing. The arrest took place in the wider context of the so-called shrinking space, which is the subject of discussion and consultation at different levels, both with Belgian and Palestinian civil society, with the Israeli and Palestinian authorities and within a European and multilateral framework. There has been no contact with the World Health Organisation on this issue, as such contacts seem to offer little added value at the moment. The issue of pressure on Palestinian civil society is discussed with the services of the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic607x.u35	This is exemplary for the many questions I have asked in the past about the frequent human rights violations that affect the Palestinian people. You are again talking about multilateral consultations. You are again talking about raising issues in different forums. They are, of course, implicit convictions of facts that you do not agree with. However, the actions are always absent. There has been no pressure in any way, and there has been no threat of any kind against Israel in order to stop certain commitments or aid. I am also thinking of the association agreement with the European Union. Belgium could play a leading role in this, if human rights were to be greatly respected. However, we still see that, unfortunately, Israel is a kind of important geostrategic pawn in the Middle East and an important ally of the West. The human rights violations that have been taking place there for 75 years are apparently less important. You spoke just now about the shrinking space, which is indeed a euphemism for the frequent attacks by the Israeli State on Palestinian civil society. Whether it is legitimate to defend itself in occupied territory, even armed, which is permitted under international humanitarian law, or to try to organise basic health care, it really doesn't matter. People continue to intimidate and lock up. I can only observe that there is a policy of double standards and two weights. The actions of allies are often covered with the cloak of love. There is certainly no threat of sanctions and no sanctions are being implemented at all. When it comes to systemic rivals, one cannot be quick enough to impose sanctions immediately. It's been noted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic607x.u36	Tomorrow is the moment of truth, at a European summit dedicated to international solidarity with the South. We can also take a courageous stand on combating the corona virus. Belgium could join all the other European countries that are in favour of the temporary abolition of patents, thus helping the South to combat the corona virus locally and to scale up their vaccination capacity. After all, we will not be safe until everyone has been vaccinated twice. At present 85% of humanity has not been vaccinated twice, but apparently the official position of the European Commission is still the screen for pharmaceutical multinationals, which have a monopoly on know-how and refuse to organise genuine solidarity with the global South. You beat yourself up about the COVAX initiative, but that's pure charity. If we continue to follow the rhythm of the COVAX initiative to vaccinate the global South, we will be a century further and we will all be at risk of eventually being exposed to a virus against which the vaccine will no longer protect us, due to variants or mutations in Africa, where the vaccination rate is only 4%. On behalf of myself, but also on behalf of Doctors Without Borders, 11-11-11, Christian Mutuality and Socialist Mutuality, I would ask you to take a courageous position at the European Summit tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, to ensure that the vaccine can become a public means, that patents are lifted and that the TRIPS Waiver is supported by the World Trade Organisation. What position will you take tomorrow? Will you argue for the lifting of these patents and seek membership of what France, Spain, the Netherlands, Italy, Greece and Poland, for example, have done?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic607x.u37	Madam President, as I have repeatedly stressed here, the objective of achieving as high a vaccination rate as possible worldwide is and remains our priority. I agree with you that vaccination is too slow and too unbalanced worldwide. There's no ready-made recipe for this. First of all, the increase in production capacity worldwide is a complex but necessary task. Matchmaking between developers and potential producers, identifying under- or unused capacity, technology transfers through mechanisms such as C-TAP and the mRNA technology transfer hub in South Africa are tools that can contribute and for which the EU is actively committed, with the support of Belgian development cooperation as a member of Team Europe. Belgium has already made a huge contribution to the production of vaccines from the start and has exported no less than 560 million vaccines in the last month, i.e. around three quarters of the total EU exports of 750 million. We are pleased that Europe is no longer the only large producer of vaccines to export them on a large scale. We are also focusing from the outset on the distribution of vaccines, on the one hand, by avoiding trade barriers and export restrictions throughout the supply chain of vaccines, on the other hand, through mechanisms such as COVAX and the European Commission's vaccine-sharing mechanism. For example, Belgium has already donated more than 2 million vaccines to partner countries. COVAX reaches 94 percent of its vaccine delivery participants for a total of 333 million doses. Finally, we will continue to examine with an open eye new proposals to see whether they can effectively contribute to increasing the production capacity or facilitating the distribution of vaccines. These may be intellectual property proposals, but they may also be more holistic. One of the two priorities of the 12th WTO Ministerial Conference at the end of November in Geneva is the Trade and Health Agenda. In the light of the pandemic, it is crucial that the WTO, which is the backbone of the rules-based multilateral trading system, contributes to this fight. The European Commission is working closely together under the leadership of the WTO DG, Dr Ngozi, with a view to achieving a result at the end of November. In my bilateral talks, I stress time and time again how important it is for the ministers of all WTO members to be able to reach an agreement on this agenda. We therefore urge the United States to take more leadership and take part in a global response from the WTO to these and future crises. As you know, the European Commission represents our country in the TRIPS Council dealing with the trade-related aspects of intellectual property. The European Commission participates actively and constructively in the debates within this TRIPS Council, also under the impetus of our country. At the moment there are several concrete proposals on the table in the field of intellectual property, namely the Waiver proposal to which you refer and a proposal from the European Commission which aims to ensure the optimum functioning of the flexibility already provided for in the TRIPS Agreement. The aspects of intellectual property, such as the flexibility built into the TRIPS Agreement, can only address the obstacles in this domain. That is precisely why, just before the summer, the Commission proposed a comprehensive strategy within the WTO called Urgent Trade Policy Responses Concern the Covid-19 Crisis. This strategy aims at a global contribution of the trading system to the fight against the pandemic, consisting of three shutters, in particular trade facilitation, production increase, and intellectual property. All these aspects are also reflected in the resolution adopted by the European Parliament a few months ago. You referred to it. Neither the EU nor Belgium has taken the protectionist map in this crisis. We will continue to work for this international solidarity, and we will assume our responsibilities without hesitation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic607x.u38	Madam Secretary, I have listened carefully to you. I asked a clear yes-no question, but you did not really give a clear answer. You have said on several occasions that we export a lot of vaccines and that we donate a lot. It's not really about donating, it's about not losing time and considering the vaccine as a public good as soon as possible. Patents must be lifted in order to respect the resolution adopted in the European Parliament and thus to valorise the European Parliament. The European Commission must also translate that resolution into action so that the position in the World Trade Organisation changes as quickly as possible. The Belgian Government could argue tomorrow at the European Summit that these patents should be temporarily lifted. 219 000 European citizens have already signed the petition of the Citizens' Platform No Profit on Pandemic. In Belgium, we even get twice as many signatures as the target. Civil society is giving you a strong mandate to advocate lifting tomorrow at the summit. I also refer to the General Assembly of the United Nations, on which many countries of the South have called on the rich West to finally organise solidarity and abandon charity. All I can tell is that we keep going in circles. You should ask yourself what the problem really is. The contrast that is now occurring is capitalism pure sang. A number of pharmaceutical multinational companies continue to be defended at the expense of health on a planetary scale, both those of the people of the South and ultimately ours. I would urge you to listen to the organisations in the field, the civil society organisations and all those citizens who have signed the petition. They want to ensure that the Global South can be vaccinated in a timely and rapid manner, that those countries can start the production of vaccines themselves, and that production capacity can be scaled up by sharing vaccine technology as quickly as possible. If that doesn't happen, then that's guilt.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic607x.u39	"Madam Minister, just over a year ago, the armed conflict between Armenia and Azerbaijan was in full swing, resulting in a total of more than 6,500 victims.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic607x.u40	Thank you."
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic607x.u41	Colleagues, I will be a little long in my answers, but your questions were specific. I tried to answer it as precisely as possible. Since our last exchange in committee, difficult but real progress has been made in such areas as humanitarian aid, the exchange of remains, the gradual return of prisoners of war, and the provision of information on the presence of minefields. On the humanitarian front, the International Committee of the Red Cross, which has been the international organization in Nagorny Karabakh since 1992, has provided the bulk of emergency humanitarian assistance with Russia, thus avoiding shortages. Let us remember that Belgium, like the European Union, is a loyal contributor to the ICRC. On 7 and 8 October, the Co-Chairs of the Minsk Group met in Geneva with the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and the Vice-Chair of the International Committee of the Red Cross. All stressed the need for all international humanitarian organizations to have access to the territory of Nagorny Karabakh and the surrounding region so that they could carry out their missions. However, owing to the lack of agreement between Armenia and Azerbaijan on the modalities of access to Karabakh, no international humanitarian needs assessment mission of specialized UN agencies has so far been able to visit the country. The same applies to the mission that UNESCO intended to send to the region to identify the state of devastation of the many cultural and religious buildings, both Islamic and Christian, that suffered during the two Karabakh wars. The exchange of remains was initiated shortly after the end of hostilities by the Armenian Red Cross and the Azerbaijani Red Moon, in cooperation with the International Committee of the Red Cross and the Russian peacekeeping forces. A lot of remains have already been found. From early March 2021 to October, no less than 304 Armenian remains were found and returned to the authorities in Jerevan. For many of them there is still a long and delicate identification process in progress. As regards the prisoners, a first prisoner exchange took place on 14 December 2020 in which 12 Azerbaijani prisoners were returned to 44 Armenian prisoners. After four other successive exchange operations, the number of Armenian prisoners officially detained in Azerbaijan is 32. Until twice, the exchange of Armenian prisoners was made conditional on Armenia's transfer to Azerbaijan of maps of Armenian minefields along certain parts of the former frontline. However, according to the Armenian authorities a year after the conflict, 231 soldiers are still missing and there is no news about 22 civilians. A large number of them could be identified (cf. the 304 remains found on the battlefield since early March and returned to Armenia). The Azerbaijani authorities recognise that 32 Armenian prisoners are still in prison, but according to the same authorities they cannot be considered prisoners of war because they were arrested in hand on Azerbaijani territory after the cease-fire was signed. While this progress is nevertheless significant, it remains insufficient. This is reflected in the renewed tension in the region since May and the lack of concrete progress in the peace process. Since May, there has been a resurgence of bilateral tensions beyond the Nagorno-Karabakh region along the Armenia-Azerbaijan border. On 12 May, the Azeri armed forces, between 500 and 600 soldiers, were positioned in the Black Lake area. If Armenia accuses Azerbaijan of illegally crossing its border, it believes that it is on its own territory. Since then, there have been a number of other incidents, including regular exchanges of fire across the border. Each time, the two protagonists reject each other's responsibility. These elements underline, as in other former Soviet republics, the numerous potential border conflicts as well as the urgent need for demarcation and clear delimitation. The Co-Chairs of the Minsk Group have repeatedly called, inter alia, on 28 May and 29 July, for the de-escalation, withdrawal of belligerent troops and the start of negotiations to define and peacefully demarcate the border. They also proposed to facilitate the process, like Russia, whose archives inherited from the Soviet era could facilitate the work of the future joint Armenian-Azerbaijan commission responsible for the delimitation of the international border between the two countries. There is also the concrete involvement of the European Union, in particular the President of the Council of the European Union visited the South Caucasus in June. He met the Armenian Prime Minister on 17 July in Jerevan and on 18 July in Baku with the President of Azerbaijan. It reiterated the EU's support for security, stability and prosperity in the region and confirmed the EU's readiness to act as an impartial mediator between the two countries in their bilateral disputes and to assist in border demarcation by deploying expertise and supervisory capacity. This mediation would support the work of the Minsk Group and its co-chairs. In the margins of the United Nations General Assembly, the co-chairmen of the Minsk Group met on 24 September with the Foreign Ministers of Armenia and Azerbaijan to relaunch the dialogue on the resumption of the peace process and the resolution of many unresolved issues. This was the first joint meeting of the two ministers since November 2020. Following this meeting, the Azerbaijani President and the Prime Minister agreed in principle to a bilateral meeting under the auspices of the co-chairmen of the Minsk Group. I met my Armenian counterpart in the margins of the UN General Assembly in New York and I indicated how much Belgium supports both sides' efforts to reach a negotiated solution. I sent the same message to my Armenian and Azerbaijani colleague. During the next meetings in my future contacts with my colleague, I will continue to argue for this. Belgium and the European Union have supported and continue to support the numerous steps taken by the co-chairs of the Minsk Group, the only forum authorised by the international community to facilitate a negotiated comprehensive and sustainable resolution of the conflict. Through my administration, contacts with the representatives of both countries and other interlocutors are continued on a regular basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic607x.u42	Minister, thank you for your continued efforts at the United Nations General Assembly in New York. I also note that the President of the Council, Charles Michel, has visited the country and that he is also making efforts in this direction. I believe that Belgium, as you do, must remain proactive in this matter. We must not wait for a further escalation between Azerbaijan and Armenia to return to the search for a solution. As you pointed out, the situation on the border remains tense, fragile and there is a need for a lasting solution for Nagorny Karabakh. Our French neighbours co-chair with Russia and the United States the Minsk Group you mentioned. This group has been responsible since 1992 for finding a lasting and lasting solution to this conflict. Almost 20 years later, it was unsuccessful. We can and must recall in many rooms, such as that of the European Union, the importance of this mission in this crossroads region: the Caucasus between Asia and Europe. Both Armenia and Azerbaijan are still accusing each other today of violating the international treaty on the elimination of all forms of racial discrimination, namely, ethnic cleansing, to put it more clearly. I think it is high time that the Minsk Group after 20 years of existence could achieve tangible results in resolving this conflict for the people of the region, for the Armenian populations who are victims of this war.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic607x.u43	Thank you for your efforts, Madam Minister, and for making it clear from Belgium that we want a solution in consultation and dialogue with Azerbaijan and Armenia. You have had numerous contacts since you replied to other oral questions here last time. It's a good thing more prisoners were released. So the pressure on both countries is actually helping to achieve the exchange that was agreed in the agreement. Unfortunately, the remains are further identified. It is positive to note that there is another dialogue and that it has been dynamically adopted by the Minsk Group, which seemed to be holding still for a while. That is the format that the European Union, too, is counting on to find a solution to the conflict and conciliation. That seemed as frozen as people listen to what happened recently. On 14 October Armenian soldiers were shot at at the border and several villages of Nagorno-Karabakh were shot at. Several Armenian houses were also set on fire. So there are still facts on the ground. This is evident from contacts with people on the ground. There now seems to be interference from Iran with regard to Azerbaijan. We really need to avoid this becoming a regional conflict in a region that is already very under attack from different countries. We will continue to monitor the matter and I thank you for the sustained efforts in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic607x.u44	Debates of the European Parliament Question No 55021617 by Mrs Ponthier Mrs Jadin's 55021631C has been converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic607x.u45	My visit to Ireland and the United Kingdom has indeed given me a more concrete picture of the situation regarding the implementation of the withdrawal agreement and the protocol on Northern Ireland. I was also able to have detailed discussions on this with my colleagues Mr Simon Coveney and Mrs Liz Truss, but also with Lord David Frost. Like the European Union, Belgium believes that the problems associated with the application of the Northern Ireland Protocol should be solved by concrete measures under the agreements concluded. A suspension of the application of the Protocol through Article 16 would most likely have a negative impact on the internal market and the customs union, as this would weaken the control system for goods coming from the United Kingdom into the internal market. During the discussion with Lord Frost, there was a wide-ranging exchange of views on this subject. We share the desire to reach an agreement so that relations between the European Union and the United Kingdom are not jeopardised by a dispute. However, we must recognise that we have different views on how to achieve this. Lord Frost has confirmed to me that the United Kingdom reserves the right to invoke Article 16 of the Protocol if the EU approach is not considered appropriate. I urged Lord Frost to use the Commission's proposals to prevent an escalation between the EU and the United Kingdom and to find a solution to the practical problems that may arise for the people of Northern Ireland. On 14 October the Commission proposed measures to simplify customs, sanitary and phytosanitary controls, to facilitate the supply of medicinal products and to take greater account of the interests of communities in Northern Ireland. Belgium supports these measures, because they are practical measures that respond to concrete problems. I therefore call on the United Kingdom to respond positively and constructively to this proposal so that relations can be normalized as soon as possible. The Commission and the United Kingdom are currently discussing these proposals, both at expert level and at political level. Member States will be informed of the content of those discussions through the Council Body. As far as the possible red lines for Belgium are concerned, as I said, we are flexible in finding practical and realistic solutions, but we cannot compromise on the integrity of the internal market. The possibility of the United Kingdom rejecting the Commission's proposals is hypothetical and premature, as discussions are still ongoing. We will evaluate the outcome of these discussions in due course.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic607x.u46	Madam Secretary, I fully support your position. The protocol has been fiercely negotiated, with all the details being considered. We must indeed go for the pragmatic solution of the European Commission. I can only hope with you that the United Kingdom will respond to this, but it is clear that it is threatening Article 16, which I think is a little inappropriate. Rather, it has to do with internal problems, to which you referred. Northern Ireland is de facto united with Ireland, with the internal market. However, we must not be insensitive to these internal problems. It is not intended to escalate, but we must not jeopardise our internal market. As for Poland, it is not only the desires but also the burdens that must be borne. However, if one no longer wants the lusts, one should not expect that we do not impose any burdens on them. Stepping out of the European Union offers not only an advantage, but also disadvantages, which the United Kingdom is now also aware of with its internal political problems, but also the fact that the internal market may not have been so uninteresting. I hope it will come to a solution, because we have no interest in this conflict.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic607x.u47	Madam Minister, the seventh round of negotiations on the UN Business and Human Rights Convention will take place from 25 to 29 October. Belgium has committed itself in its coalition agreement to participate actively and constructively in these negotiations. This Chamber adopted a resolution on 14 January 2021 which further elaborates this commitment. For example, the resolution clearly states that Belgium should actively participate in the discussions at European Union level in order to obtain a common position and a mandate to continue those treaty negotiations at international level. If this is not possible, Belgium must form a coalition with similar European states and also participate actively in the negotiations at international level. It is also requested that Belgium take part in the informal consultations and organise regional consultations with other similar European Member States. I would like to have an overview of the work that Belgium has done in the run-up to this seventh round of negotiations on the UN Business and Human Rights Convention. How did you implement the coalition agreement and the various points in the resolution that I described?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic607x.u48	Madam President, Madam Minister, the duty of vigilance must be the subject of a proposal for European Commission legislation by the end of the year. At the same time, on the initiative of my group and my colleague Christophe Lacroix, a bill has been tabled so that our country can already move forward on the subject without too much delay. Belgian citizens are seeking the results of a survey conducted by YouGov and published on 13 October, with 86% of them approving the idea that companies are legally obliged to ensure that they do not contribute, through their activities, to acts of human rights violations and 85% believe that the same rule should apply with regard to environmental damage. Another lesson from this survey is that 86% of respondents, if companies are nevertheless involved, must be legally held accountable. YouGov's study comes as a new negotiating session opens next week at the UN on the draft treaty on business and human rights. If the information at my disposal is correct, then it seems that we are entering a crucial phase of these discussions, perhaps with the creation, at the end of this sequence, of a working group that would organise regional consultations. Minister, how did Belgium prepare this session? What is the intended content of this stage of the process? Do you confirm that the establishment of a working group is part of this? If so, could Belgium participate in it? Could you provide an update on the evolution of China's and the United States' positions on this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic607x.u49	Minister, I refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic607x.u50	With regard to the seventh round of negotiations on a legal instrument within the UN on business and human rights, I would like to remind you that an important part of the aspects covered by this text fall within the exclusive competence of the EU. EU Member States cannot interfere in a field of competence which belongs exclusively to the EU. This means that Belgium alone or with other EU Member States cannot take an active part in the negotiations. That is why Belgium has been working with other like-minded EU Member States this year to actively promote the EU's strong involvement in the next phase of negotiations with the European institutions. As in previous years, the EU will participate effectively during the opening of the seventh session. The EU will then make a detailed statement. Together with the other Member States, we continue to work for a more active involvement of the EU in these negotiations. A CoR Multi meeting was held on 19 October 2021 to coordinate various competent Belgian bodies prior to the 7th session. In particular, a call from Belgium to the European Union to engage more actively during this online session with the Council conclusions of 22 February 2021 on the priorities of the European Union in human rights forums in 2021. With regard to the announcement by the Chairman-Rapporteur of the working group, the Permanent Representative of Ecuador in Geneva, of the establishment of a group of "friends of the presidency", we know that this group will be composed of representatives of the five regional groups of the United Nations. Its objective is to continue consultations and work on the text in order to be able to present a new revised version at the end of July 2022. The question of the possible participation of the European Union or a Member State of the European Union in these "friends of the Presidency" has yet to be resolved. If the European Union participates, a negotiating mandate will have to be considered. As for the positioning of the two countries that were mentioned, I can tell you that, at the 6th session, China made a speech on the occasion of the opening and asked questions of clarification, while the United States did not participate. Belgium remains committed to business and human rights issues. In implementation of the UN Guidelines, the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, our country has started work on drawing up a second national action plan. Another example of this commitment is the Belgian contribution, coordinated between the federal government and the Länder, to the public consultation on the draft EU legislation on sustainable corporate governance.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic607x.u51	Madam Minister, in the meantime, I have also read the statement that the European Union intends to make at the forthcoming round of negotiations. This is far below our ambition. I understand that, in the run-up to the seventh session, the FPS Foreign Affairs services have made efforts to push the EU forward and seek like-minded Member States. It is then difficult to find derogations in that common EU position. For my party, it is absolutely insufficient to comment on the provisional EU declaration, which will at best be adjusted only marginally. The bottom line is that we are once again supporting the European Union in a non-constructive attitude. The EU will not participate in working groups and confines itself to an introductory statement and occasional demand. That is not enough for us. Moreover, it is not in line with the resolution we adopted. I understand that there is another meeting on the agenda this week and look forward to the position that will be taken there.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic607x.u52	Without much surprise, I agree almost entirely with what my colleague has just said. We're on the same page. We must be absolutely proactive on this issue, which is of no interest to the population. We must be as offensive as possible with the tools that are ours and in the forums where we have the opportunity to weigh. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic607x.u53	Madam Secretary, I agree with colleagues' replies. Efforts must be continued to ensure the statement. After all, it is reported that there is a difference between the Member States in this respect. Since there is no consensus, there is no other way of working than this one. I am convinced that evolution is moving in the direction of more corporate governance, due diligence. It's only a matter of time, but sometimes we have to push the process in the back. That is why it is important that our diplomacy continues to exert pressure so that a statement is made that goes in the right direction. Business is an important actor in the protection of human rights. A crucial factor is that where money is used, listens faster than when soft power is used. We can only encourage you to apply further pressure to ensure that this is indeed going in the right direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic607x.u54	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l 55021719C, 55021720C, 55021721C and 5502172C by Mrs Van Bossuyt are postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic607x.u55	Minister, the 77th United Nations AG was held at the end of September. You represented Belgium with our Prime Minister. Your program was very busy and you met many of your counterparts at bilateral meetings or in multilateral format. This is particularly the case of the Burundian President and the Palestinian Foreign Minister. It is also our responsibility that you have met with many civil society organisations. Therefore, Madam Minister, may I ask you to give us a brief account of your participation in this 77th session? What are Belgium's most emblematic messages? How did your meeting with the Burundian President take place? What was the content of your discussions? Has the issue of the international arrest warrants recently issued against seven exiles, including some refugees in our country, been addressed? What was the content of your discussions with the Palestinian Foreign Minister? Which civil society organisations have you met?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic607x.u56	My colleague, with regard to Belgium's priorities, which we defended at the recent United Nations AG, Belgium has reiterated its concrete commitment to contribute to an effective, dynamic multilateralism to deal with global challenges. These include health, the global response to the covid crisis, Belgium's commitment to human rights and the universal values enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations, the thread of my interventions, for example, on the issue of the rights of women and girls in Afghanistan, which has come back with many of my colleagues, whether they are from the Gulf or elsewhere. This prelude to the AG was signed by COP 26 on climate and COP 15 on biodiversity. The Prime Minister participated in the Transformative Actions for Nature and People for life hub: Leaders & Pledge for Nature event, organized by Belgium, among others, and followed by an event on biodiversity in 2020. This week was also the occasion of many bilateral talks, including the one you spoke about with the President of Burundi and my Palestinian counterpart. These small format meetings were an opportunity to reiterate Belgium's priorities. Together with Burundi, the subjects of the fight against poverty were discussed, the preparation by Cooperation for the development of a new transitional programme, security, freedom of the press and respect for human rights, the 60th anniversary of Burundi's independence in 2022. Together with my Palestinian counterpart, I reaffirmed Belgium's willingness to work towards a solution to the conflict through an important role of the European Union. With regard to the peace process, I reiterated Belgium's support for a two-State solution. The postponement of the Palestinian elections and the challenge of their organization in East Jerusalem were also discussed. Our country is in favour of free elections in all the occupied Palestinian territories. A meeting is scheduled with the Palestinian Prime Minister next week, when I return from Kigali. We'll see if it's possible. Dialogue with civil society was present in my various activities. I will highlight the high-level seminar I co-chaired on children in armed conflict: "Protection of Children, Invisible Victims of Armed Conflict and Covid-19". This seminar has been co-organised for several years with the NGO Save the Children. Like my predecessors, I also met with representatives of some American Jewish associations at their request, and we discussed Belgium's contribution to the fight against anti-Semitism. I also participated in another event, organized by France, on the information and democracy aspects. I had the opportunity to participate in an exchange with civil society organizations and journalists, including the Nobel Peace Prize winner Maria ingrita Ressa. I will now summarize what has taken us for a week. I will not insult you to refer you to my Instagram account, but if you review it you will realize how many personalities or colleagues I have met. It was a very interesting but tiring week. One subject has very often returned to the forefront: Afghanistan. We have talked about this both at European level and with colleagues in the region. It was also the week following the AUKUS, which kept us busy at the various meetings. Other meetings were held with African representatives, such as Côte d'Ivoire. A more informal meeting was held with all the women, foreign ministers – we were not very numerous! Many relationships have thus developed. And I also met my Iranian counterpart. We have therefore dealt with a lot of issues, not always simple. This underscores the importance of being present at this major international forum, as it is an opportunity to meet many people in a short time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic607x.u57	I'm not going to reply to each of your meetings, it would be very tedious. It must have been an exciting week in view of your report. Two elements draw my attention. You referred to the issues discussed with the Palestinian representative. I have not heard anything about the Palestinian authority's respect for human rights. We know, however, that there have been problems on the part of the Palestinian authorities with regard to their own population – we must be able to say so. If you soon meet again a representative of the Palestinian Authority, do not hesitate to let him know that we are vigilant about respect for human rights, not only on the Israeli side, but also on the Palestinian side! What happened a few weeks ago with regard to Palestinian civilians is absolutely unacceptable, and must be denounced. You've been quite specific about the civil society associations you've met, including Save the Children. I myself was able to see, on a trip to Rwanda in August, that they are doing a remarkable job. On the other hand, you have remained fairly general about the Jewish-American associations you have met. It would be useful to have the names of the associations you have seen, without obviously prejudging their positioning. It would interest me to know who, precisely, you have met, and the content of your exchanges.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic607x.u58	Both our embassy in Abu Dhabi, the administration in Brussels and I will continue to follow the file. The legal framework for consular assistance laid down in the Consular Code provides only for a financial contribution for Belgians who wish to be repatriated to our country and who fulfil very strict conditions for repatriation. Providing a budget for providing assistance to Belgians for private debts or accommodation and maintenance costs abroad would require an amendment of the legal framework. On Mr Daumerie's situation, I can tell you that, in line with our previous initiatives, I discussed his file at the end of September in the margins of the United Nations General Assembly in New York with the UAE Minister for International Cooperation. I can also tell you that Mr Daumerie's trial is still ongoing and that his case still needs to be brought before the court of appeal in Dubai. The next hearing will take place after the accounting expert, appointed by the judge, has given his audit. This audit is expected at best at the end of November. As a result of Mr Daumerie's housing problems, the embassy sought and found a cheaper accommodation. However, he did not agree to the embassy's proposal. Meanwhile, he himself found a solution to his housing problems. For privacy reasons, I do not comment on Mr Daumerie's state of health. With regard to the additional budget following the postponement of the exhibition 2020 in Dubai, please refer to the Minister responsible, Mr Pierre-Yves Dermagne, and/or the Secretary of State for the Budget, Mrs Eva De Bleeker.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic607x.u59	Madam Secretary, I have questioned you a few times about this dossier. It was an anonymous savior angel who helped Mr Daumerie financially in early October and made sure that he had a shelter, that shelter was found for him. Mr Daumerie has been in that nightmare for 14 months and continues to feel a little abandoned. He thinks he should do it with verbal promises. Madam Minister, you cannot blame me, but I do not think it is entirely logical that no budget line is available, even if I understand the circumstances. However, if such a generous sum is given for Belgium's participation in the exhibition in Dubai, I find that somewhat regrettable.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic607x.u60	Madam President, Belgium is consistently addressing the issue of the humanitarian, political and military situation, both bilaterally with the conflict parties and in multilateral fora. During its membership of the Security Council in 2019-2020, Belgium intervened in the debates on this issue every month. Belgium has committed itself to establishing an investigation mechanism to identify violations of international humanitarian law and human rights within the framework of the Human Rights Council. A group of leading experts has been working systematically on this since 2017. The assignment of a mandate to this group of eminent experts was a joint initiative of Belgium, the Netherlands, Luxembourg, Canada and Ireland. However, since 2018, the granting of the mandate has been subject to resistance, including from the countries of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia or who are in favour of the multinational coalition headed by Saudi Arabia. This, unfortunately, did not allow this mandate to be extended at the last Council meeting, despite Belgium's efforts. In our interventions in this dossier, Belgium also systematically recalls the importance of respect for international humanitarian law and human rights. It is the responsibility of the conflict parties to ensure that citizens, especially children, are not targeted by attacks. Our country supports the efforts of the new UN Special Envoy Hans Grundberg to ensure that a comprehensive political solution is found. We call on the parties to cooperate constructively with him on a national ceasefire. On June 10, I had a meeting with the Jeminite foreign minister Bin Mubarak. The humanitarian, military and political dimensions of the conflict were discussed. On behalf of our country, I stressed the need to revive a political process. Not only in our contacts with the Yemeni Government, but also with the member states of the Arab coalition operating in Yemen, we emphasise this message. As far as the humanitarian aspect is concerned, I share your opinion on the disastrous humanitarian situation in Yemen. It is a direct consequence of the conflict. The lack of access to humanitarian aid in Yemeni territory is extremely worrying. In 2021, Belgium will contribute €5 million to the humanitarian response in Yemen. Due to the needs in other priority geographical areas for Belgian humanitarian aid, Belgium is unable to contribute financially to the Peace Support Facility of the United Nations Development Programme. For more details, please contact my colleague, Mr Kitir, who is responsible for development cooperation. Finally, on the oil tanker Safer, we fully support the UN analysis mission, which is yet to take place. At present no contribution is foreseen, but if demand were to arise, a contribution could be considered. The fact that the mission has not yet taken place has to do with the actual blocking attitude of the Houthis, who use the tanker issue as a political passport. This is totally irresponsible, because the tanker with more than a million oil barrels is damaged and possible oil leaks can cause a huge natural disaster.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic607x.u61	Madam Secretary, thank you for your comprehensive answer. I will also certainly question your fellow Minister, Mr Kitir, about the same problem. Yesterday, the newspaper said that since the start of the fighting in 2015, the number of injured and killed children is estimated to reach ten thousand. That's four kids a day. Probably the actual number is even higher. Over the years, more than 20 million people depended on humanitarian aid. There is therefore no doubt that Yemen is experiencing the worst humanitarian crisis in the world. Aids and food are not or are very difficult to reach the affected population, nor to the malnourished children. I therefore hope that a breakthrough can be achieved at international level or that humanitarian aid will certainly reach the vulnerable population.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic607x.u62	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I hope that the arrival of Hans Grundberg and the Biden administration are game changers and that there are new opportunities to look at the conflict from a different angle and to involve the various partners in the region. After all, the impact on the Yemeni population is enormous. Yemen is in the top five of the biggest humanitarian conflicts of this period, alongside Ethiopia, Syria and Afghanistan. There could be a breakthrough there. That is in the best interest of all of us. You rightly said that the Safer environmental disaster is being used as a political passport. The situation isn't getting any better. In this way, the pressure is kept on the kettle. I hope that a new UN resolution will create new opportunities. You have not answered the question of whether this is being looked at from a different angle or whether there are new negotiating possibilities. In my opinion, these are necessary, given the pressure and pass coin of the Safer that is anchored there.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic607x.u63	Minister, the tension around Taiwan has seen a recent rise in power, when Chinese President Xi Jinping has multiplied allusions to a future reunification of China and the island. This tension is all the more acute when we know that, since the beginning of the year, more than 600 Chinese air force aircraft have been detected in this Taiwan Air Defence Identification Zone, including more than 150 for the first weekend of this month alone. Taiwan's defence minister believes that this is the most gloomy situation he has ever encountered in 40 years of career. These demonstrations of force raise tension between Beijing and Taipei, and an outbreak of hostilities on the ground could endanger world peace. Every effort must therefore be made to encourage Beijing and Taipei to resume a dialogue that has been interrupted since 2016. How is the situation around Taiwan followed together with the other Member States of the European Union? What tools are being mobilised to ensure stability in the region? Are any reactions already envisaged in the event of a future invasion of Taiwan by China? Finally, what levers are they mobilised to promote a resumption of dialogue?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic607x.u64	Madam Minister, there is indeed an escalation, given the 600 aircraft of the Chinese Air Force in or next to Taiwanese airspace. The military tensions between Beijing and Taipei are increasing. It is important that the maintenance of the status quo is not affected. This means: no independence, but no unification or use of force. That is also what the Taiwanese people have always supported. This is now being called into question by Xi Jinping, who has expansionist tendencies. We adopted a resolution on 16 June 2020 in which we asked that Belgium play a positive role and support diplomatic initiatives to reduce tensions there. What specific initiatives have already been taken in response to the resolution? How does our country respond to repeated calls from China for unification, as well as military manoeuvres? Do we make it clear in bilateral contacts that the status quo should not be affected? How is this being addressed in NATO and the European Union, as the United States is sending a very clear signal to China that these actions cannot continue? Has there been any discussion on possible solutions in the event of China invading Taiwan?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic607x.u65	Madam Minister, I refer to my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic607x.u66	Ladies and gentlemen, Taiwan is an important partner of the European Union with which economic exchanges are intense and with which we share common values. These contacts are part of the policy of one China, followed by the European Union, followed by Belgium, according to which we recognize the Beijing authorities as legitimate representatives of China, but we do not rule on the territorial boundaries of China and Taiwan. The situation in Taiwan is the subject of regular discussions between European partners. It goes without saying that the Chinese army's incursions into Taiwan's maritime and air space raise serious concerns among Western countries, particularly in view of the increasing frequency of such incursions. Belgium advocates a de-escalation of the tensions between Beijing and Taipei and calls for dialogue as the only way out for all parties. The EU also calls for constructive and peaceful dialogue, cooperation and confidence-building measures between China and Taiwan in order to preserve peace in the Indo-Pacific region. In a resolution of 20 January 2021, the European Parliament called for a committed European policy in the Indo-Pacific region and for constructive and peaceful relations between China and Taiwan. In NATO, the allies are trying to strike a balance between, on the one hand, a degree of Lucidity on the Chinese challenge and, on the other hand, a constructive approach, opening up dialogue and interaction. As such, Taiwan is not on NATO's agenda, but it is a factor in the analysis of China's assertiveness. A military intervention by China would be unacceptable to Belgium, the EU and the international partners, and I believe that China is well aware of this. In bilateral contacts with China, the situation in Taiwan is regularly discussed, even though I personally do not have much contact with that country.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic607x.u67	Minister, thank you for your answers. We will keep an eye on the development of this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic607x.u68	Madam Minister, thank you for your clear answer on the need for a de-escalation. We do not benefit from escalation and bidding. China must indeed be prepared to engage in dialogue, because there is always a reference to non-interference in internal matters, but it is clear that the world community does not regard action as an internal matter and that we want to go for a peaceful solution in that region. We welcome your statement that military intervention is unacceptable and that the issue is still on NATO's agenda. I can imagine that very vividly. The European Union also underlines that we must be concerned and that a committed European policy towards China is therefore needed. I see only signs in this direction in the last year, and that is an important element in our policy towards China.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic607x.u69	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I think we should stay alert. We read that a number of observers are extremely concerned. However, it is not the first time China has intervened in the air defence zone of Taiwan. We are now talking about very high numbers. Mrs Van Hoof also mentioned it earlier. The American President is trying to reassure us, but if we look at what happened in Hong Kong, we must conclude that we cannot really rely on what China says or promises. As far as we are concerned, it must be very clear that there can be no military conquest of Taiwan. We believe that Taiwan should be able to decide and choose its own future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic607x.u70	Madam President, Minister, the Don't Buy into Occupancy coalition, which brings together 25 Palestinian and European organisations, including the CNCD, released a report on 29 September. It highlights the financial relations between 672 European banks and 50 companies active in Israeli settlements. Unfortunately, this study leads us once again to note that Belgium is not in any other way in this field. We learn that in 2019, Solvay products would have contributed to the construction of a pipeline in Bardala, Jordan Valley, in occupied territory. The function of this pipeline is to divert water from Palestinian sources in order to feed settlements, thereby preventing its access to Palestinian populations. On the financial institutions side, the involvement is even more evident, and is aimed at KBC, Ackermans & van Haaren and Degroof Petercam. The investment credits linking them to companies involved in colonization amount to more than 2 billion euros. BNP Paribas – a French bank whose Belgian government owns 7.7% of the capital – is the largest European creditor of these companies, with nearly 15 billion loans and subscriptions. It is their twelfth investor, with a cumulative amount valued at 2.86 billion. Let me finally point out that Solvay is not included in the United Nations database as published in February 2020. This brings us back to another problem that I regularly mention here. As part of the work carried out by this group of NGOs, the CNCD has also made a series of recommendations to the federal government. These include the need to support financially and politically the updating of this list. Minister, have you been aware of this study? What is your response to the CNCD's recommendations?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic607x.u71	Mr Ben Achour, I have read the Don't buy Into Occupancy report, which was published by a coalition of 24 Palestinian, regional and European organisations, and which aims to highlight the financial relations between the companies involved in Israeli colonization in the Palestinian territories and the European financial institutions. On 29 September, our Consulate General in Jerusalem participated in a briefing on the launch of the report and sent us a detailed report on the subject. Israeli colonization in the Palestinian territories is indeed one of the themes of regular reporting of our diplomatic post and of the subjects followed by my services in Brussels, at our request. Belgium considers, together with the European Union, that settlements are illegal under international law. They also constitute an obstacle to peace and endanger the two-State solution. The Business and Human Rights theme is a priority for our country. Belgium and the European Union agree that the Business and Human Rights Guidelines agreed by consensus in the Human Rights Council in Geneva must be applied globally. It calls on all companies to implement them under all circumstances, including in Israel and the occupied Palestinian territories. Negotiations on a legally binding United Nations instrument on business and human rights fall within the competence of the European Union. Together with other Member States, Belgium is actively advocating with European bodies for a more active participation of the European Union in these negotiations. This has just been discussed in a previous question. With regard to the other more specific recommendations of the Don't buy Into Occupancy report, I note that some of them have been mentioned in the ongoing discussions at the level of the intercabinets working group. I will not fail to report to you when it is closed although in my opinion it will be a working progress in the time, which is rather a good thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic607x.u72	Madam Minister, thank you for this answer which, on principles, is quite positive. I appreciate the words you said. But, once again, when we know what we know about the situation of respect for human rights in the Palestinian territories, when we see what we see, I think we cannot be silent and even less we can refuse any concrete action. As I said before, there is really a major credibility issue. We regularly refer to the human rights situation in a range of countries, particularly in Africa and Asia, sometimes with concrete actions that can be taken towards those countries. I do not want the only country that is in a position to violate human rights but that escapes any action or even punishment, namely Israel, on the pretext that it is an allied country. I am not questioning this alliance, but there can be no double standards. I am therefore pleased to see the results of the government's work on all these issues. I have no doubt for a second of this government's ambition on these issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic607x.u73	Madam President, Madam Minister, the takeover of Hong Kong civil society, particularly following the implementation of the new National Security Act since 1 July 2020, is continuing and in recent weeks is taking on an unexpected and tragic form, that of squashing. In the face of the risks now incurred, many organizations prefer to have a voluntary dissolution, the only way, in their view, to avoid this reign of arbitrariness. Thus, on the trade union side, the Hong Kong Confederation of Trade Union (HKCTU), a member of the International Trade Union Confederation (ITUC), was forced to make this difficult choice on 21 September. His secretary-general, Lee Cheuk-Yan, was sentenced to one year's imprisonment last April. Since then, there have been increasing threats to the union. The decision of the HKCTU follows other decisions, such as by the Hong Kong Professional Teachers' Union on 16 August, or by Asia Monitor Resource Center, a reference NGO with regard to the world of work in Asia. Workers' organisations are, of course, not the only ones to take this radical step. On 25 September, the Hong Kong Alliance of Support for Patriotic and Democratic Movements in China (HK Alliance) did the same. She was thus far the guarantor of the memory of Tian'anmen's events in Hong Kong, where she held a candle vigil every 4 June in Victoria Park, which at times brought together hundreds of thousands of people. Minister, has the issue of respect for human and trade union rights in Hong Kong been addressed recently in our bilateral diplomatic relations with China and Hong Kong? At the same time, within the European framework, can additional targeted measures be expected with regard to the Chinese and Hong Kong authorities?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic607x.u74	Since the introduction of the National Security Act in Hong Kong in June 2020, the situation – as you said – has continued to deteriorate. The developments of recent months, including the reform of the Electoral Code, the obligation to give allegiance to the fundamental law and the possibility of disqualifying "anti-patriotic" candidates, are of great concern. Belgium and the European Union strongly urged China to comply with the 1984 Sino-British Joint Declaration, the basic law of Hong Kong and the high degree of autonomy granted to Hong Kong under the "One country, two systems" policy. In the conclusion of the Council of the European Union, these calls were followed by concrete measures, which Belgium has been implementing since July 2020, such as strengthening dialogue with civil society actors, including trade unions. Belgium regularly addresses the human rights situation in Hong Kong in relevant multilateral forums. For example, at the 46th session of the Human Rights Council on 11 March 2021, our country expressed its concern for human rights defenders in Hong Kong. Belgium has also co-sponsored several joint statements by countries sharing the same opinion on the subject, the last of which dates from 21 June 2021. Our Consulate General in Hong Kong continues to maintain regular contacts with civil society and to convey our concern to the relevant authorities. The situation in Hong Kong is also systematically addressed in our bilateral contacts. This was still the case recently. Belgium advocates keeping the situation in Hong Kong on the agenda of the European Union, a united and coherent position being the best way to convey our message to Beijing and the Hong Kong authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic607x.u75	Madam Minister, on principles, we agree. This issue is not simple and it is not obvious to be confronted with China on these issues. You certainly know better than I do: the situation in Hong Kong is really worrying and continues to deteriorate. The erasure of China's democratic struggles with Hong Kong's memory takes on a very concrete look: a statue called "the pillar of shame", made by a Danish artist, should soon be removed from its location at the University of Hong Kong. She had been there for more than 20 years. She represented, I quote, "50 anxious faces and bodies stacked, tortured" in memory of the events in Tian'anmen Square. There is a massive offensive by the Chinese authorities against democracy in Hong Kong. It will have to be resisted in the best possible way with the means at our disposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic607x.u76	Minister, Afghanistan is probably on the verge of a major humanitarian crisis. The Director of the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA), Natalia Kanem, warned at the end of September about the risk of imminent famine, which would threaten one third of the population, including one million children, if necessary. On the security front, as observers predicted, the situation has deteriorated, with the Islamic State group in Khorasan multiplying the attacks, including recently in Kandahar in the Taliban fief. At the heart of this marasm, the Belgians still on the spot as well as the Afghans who have worked for our country are in a complicated situation. I know that maximum effort is being made to reach solutions for all these individuals, that stopping commercial flights makes this task more difficult and that travelling by road to Islamabad is highly discouraged. Fortunately, since the evacuations ended, Qatar has organized several flights between Kabul and Doha, which have also benefited some of our nationals. The sixth and most important flight to date took place on 6 October. It included 300 Afghan and foreign citizens, including Belgians. At the diplomatic level, I noted that initial contacts had been established between the European Union and the Taliban in Doha on 12 October. On the basis of this information, I would like to ask you a few questions. Could you make a new assessment of the number of people on site for each of the four categories as defined? How does collaboration with Qatar evolve from this point of view? What was the result of the initial discussions with the Taliban? Could you clarify the role of Qatar or other countries, if any, in this dialogue?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic607x.u77	Dear colleague, you know how complicated the question of numbers has always been. This is the number of people we know they are still in Afghanistan. I do not remind you of the categories, you know them by heart. Category 1: 87 people, and 54 of them are ready to leave. Category 4: 40 people of whom 39 are ready to leave. I start with categories 1 and 4 because they are the ones under the control of Foreign Affairs. Category 1 people who are ready to leave can do so on flights from Qatar, as you indicated earlier. Category 4 people who are ready to leave should also be able to do so at a later stage. Category 1 passes first. Of course, we hope that this possibility will also be accessible later to other categories of people. As far as Foreign Affairs is concerned, for the time being we are working on the repatriation via Qatar of the 54 category 1 people who are ready to leave. Within the group, one must understand the situation: 45 of them appeared after Operation NEO and 39 category 4 people are ready to leave. It must be understood that in these figures there are life situations that are very complicated. I'm going to have a hard time telling you, "These other 9 people were ready to leave." "They're Category 1 people." Class 1 people in general have no difficulty leaving, except that some have papers for them but not for their dependants. The assignees must have papers in order. Sometimes they have papers for some of their children but not for others. Either they don't want to leave because their parents are still here, or they didn't want to leave before the NEO but now they want to. There are very special life paths, without any judgment. That's the difficulty. When you work with numbers, it's always complicated because you can't put people in boxes, and so much the better thing is, it's the beauty of the human being. It also means that people who had contacted us before and left Afghanistan are in Belgium and have not told us. We're really working on lists of people we get in touch with and tell us: "Yes, I'm really here and I don't want to leave, or not leave now, or not at all." The day they decide to leave, they will.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic607x.u78	When we talk about "ready to go"?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic607x.u79	This means they have the will to leave.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic607x.u80	It's a matter of will!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic607x.u81	Not just. They have the will and they have their family block with them, with papers. Why am I telling you this? For example: I'm in category 1, I have the papers to go home and my husband has them too. But our two-year-old doesn't have them. I may want to leave, but I'm not ready. I'll wait until I get the children's papers. It is true that this notion of "ready to leave" is much finer for category 1 for which the papers are not a difficulty in themselves, than for a Category 2 or 3 Afghan who has no connection with Belgium a priori. I'll do it again. In this case, we are working on a group of 54 category 1 people. When we get calls from Qatar saying there are flights, we give names so they can board. For now, the O.R. is 54. But it could decrease depending on the people who come out and increase depending on the people who decide to leave, having everything to leave and being ready to leave when they were not before. This should not be seen as a stock that can be emptied as it is, because it can be emptied on one side and filled on the other. Category 4: 39 people of whom 28 reported after Operation NEO I will explain to you that the stocks are not empty, because the lists are filled behind and even if you are category 1 or 4, you can still ask the embassy. We are not going to tell them that we will not take care of them because they have not inquired before! The other category 2 or 3 people who are under the leadership of my colleagues Dedonder and Mahdi still have 45 category 2 people and 63 category 3 people. They must also have their valid passport and visa-type documents depending on the road. Today, you understand that through Qatar, it is not on the agenda. We first have categories 1 and 4. We hope to be able to expand because, as you know, we do not advocate the road route. Other ways are possible, such as Pakistan. But to go to Pakistan, you also need a visa and a passport. Pakistan that already has a lot of migrations on its territory will give you a visa, if it is sure that you will then be welcomed to another land, to another country. Otherwise, he won't grant you a visa to arrive if he thinks you're going to stay on his territory. For this purpose, it is the documents drawn up by Mahdi's firm that prevail. Indeed, we find ourselves in a classic process of asylum migration. As a result, discussions were reinvigorated between Dedonder, as it was people who had worked for Defence, and Mahdi, who was making the migration asylum papers, to examine how to speed up, facilitate, and first, ensure that the 45 category 2 people are the right category 2 people (we do not have access to this information) and ensure that at some point the papers are issued in some way. At the moment, this is not moving yet, since today, the only way out of the country is by road and some people take that risk. As I told you, this is not the way we advise! The other possibility is to leave by air to Doha, Qatar category 1 and then category 4 and/or Pakistan, but for the moment Pakistan is with on/off flights, i.e. which operate and then no longer operate, private companies, etc. The story is not over. Progress is being made as we move forward on the basis of how we can do it. So we had a meeting with Mahdi and Dedonder to see how we could continue to organize things and carry out the verification, with Dedonder, of the people who worked for Defence to update the list and the exact situation of these people. It must also be understood that some of the people who have worked for Defence have worked and for Belgian Defence and other organizations. They could be taken over by other organizations and have already left Afghanistan. All this is not as formatted as one might think. We are also informed that some 40 people, after Operation NEO, left Afghanistan by road via Pakistan. They decided to make that trip. Collaboration with the Qatari authorities is going very well. You talked about thefts that are already organized. So we managed to get 95 Belgians and their family members out of here until two days ago. Today, another 25 people will leave. There is still room for 25 people and flights continue to be organized. So you see that it follows and that we're on the ball. For several reasons, Qatar plays a fairly decisive role in the current situation. First of all, it clearly organizes transport and "helps" us to carry out these evacuations. You have to say things. You will recall that even before the fall of Kabul, diplomatic discussions between all stakeholders were taking place in Afghanistan and continue to be held. On 12 October 2021, a meeting was held between an American delegation and several Taliban representatives. On 14 October 2021, there was a broader consultation with, on the one hand, a delegation of Taliban chaired by Mutaki, the Minister for Foreign Affairs acting, and, on the other hand, representatives of the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom and the European Union (Italy, France, Germany, Norway, Finland, Sweden, Switzerland, the Netherlands). These countries still had embassies in Kabul before, which is not our case. According to the information in our possession, this was an opportunity for these countries to send common messages about the criteria that had been set for assessing the regimes in place. You will remember the five evaluation criteria. Language doesn't change. A dialogue exists and settles. The idea is to be able to engage in talks with the Taliban on two levels. The first level is the operational level. We keep getting people out and we want it to continue to work. The second level is the political level. How can we make sure that we can influence the policies of the Taliban, while at the same time not validating their regime? It's not easy. It's very complicated, but it's the waters we're sailing on. I would also like to point out that, at the level of foreign affairs, the European presence in Kabul is being discussed. I also spoke to the Foreign Affairs Council on Monday. I'm always coming back to the subject. I'm like a broken clock. This European presence will first be concentrated on the humanitarian because, as you have said, there will be a major problem. When you're told that a million children are at risk of death this winter, not moving would be really criminal. At the same time, we must realize that this type of system collapse also has potential consequences for the region, for peace, for terrorism, etc. other than humanitarian aspects. A presence in Kabul to organize this humanitarian aid is essential, without legitimizing the current regime, but also to have eyes in Kabul. I believe that the European Union must have eyes in Kabul. Otherwise, you can see through the prism of others. For this reason, it is important to be there. On the other hand, I continue to insist that this presence be able to serve countries that still want to "get out" of people. For example, the Netherlands has lists of more than a thousand people who want to go out. We have much less, but every person counts and we have to be able to organize. I work very hard and very long because it's important.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic607x.u82	That is indeed very important.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic607x.u83	Madam President, I would be grateful if you would excuse me for the relative non-compliance with the form. But it was really interesting. I congratulate you and thank you for your work, Minister. As I understand it, the level of collaboration of the Taliban is relatively good. They do not prevent people from going out, but rather collaborate with the international community in the work it wishes to do.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic607x.u84	Yes, it is. And as we speak in a public session, you will also understand that my language is extremely cautious when it comes to talking about their level of collaboration, their longevity, who we are talking about, how we are talking about, and the question of how much we are talking about. There is a creative shadow zone that needs to be kept as long as things are not closed, as is often the case in diplomacy. However, when I tell you that Belgium does not engage directly with the Taliban, it is a reality. I'm not saying things that don't exist.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic607x.u85	It was the art of light-obscurity that was one of Magritte's specialties. Basically, it's very Belgian. In any case, what is certain is that imagining a political posture that would be based on the assumption that this regime is too dreadful, we refuse to look at it, we extinguish the light of Afghanistan, pretending that this country no longer exists, would be a bad approach. You have to be pragmatic. By definition, one must be able to speak with everyone in an indirect or direct way.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic607x.u86	Debates of the European Parliament Mr De Vuyst's 55022051C and Mr 55022052C were postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic607x.u87	Minister, 30 years after the signing of the agreements between Morocco and the Frente Polisario, fighting has resumed in Western Sahara. The violation of the agreements by Morocco, symbolized by the guerguerat breach and the systematic refusal to set up a referendum on self-determination, as the agreements provided for, eventually led to this outbreak of violence. Today, 3,000 people have fled the fighting and are growing in the refugee camps in Tindouf, Algeria, which already accounted for 175,000 refugees, who have been completely dependent on food and humanitarian aid for decades. On 31 October, MINURSO's mandate to monitor the ceasefire and to organize the referendum expired. Discussions are under way for an additional renewal of its mission in this new context. At the same time, in Morocco's territories under control, Saharawi independence activists are subjected to severe repression, mixing harassment, arbitrary arrests, rape, house arrest - like, for example, human rights defender Sultana Khaya. Minister, are there any contacts between the Moroccan authorities and ours regarding the resumption of the fighting? What are they and what are they? Are there any contacts with the Polisario Front? What can be expected from the renewal of the mandate of MINURSO? What should be the scope of this new mandate in your opinion? The European Union court recently annulled two trade agreements between Morocco and the European Union concerning the territory of Western Sahara. This judgment considers that "to the extent that the agreements at issue explicitly apply to Western Sahara and to the waters adjacent to it, they affect the people of that territory and involve obtaining their consent". What is the impact of this decision on Belgium and the attitude our country will take within the European Union with regard to this judgment? Is the situation of Sultana Khaya known in Belgium? Have you taken an attitude about his situation? What steps are being taken or envisaged to encourage the Moroccan government to put an end to the political persecution of the Saharawis and to release arbitrarily detained persons for simply exercising their rights to freedom of expression and assembly? Thank you for your answers and for your availability.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic607x.u88	My colleague, our country and the European Union continue to support the efforts of the United Nations and the Secretary-General of the United Nations to find a political and peaceful solution to this conflict, in accordance with United Nations resolutions. This message is conveyed at each bilateral political or diplomatic meeting. My cabinet had a meeting on the resumption of hostilities with the Ambassador of Morocco in Brussels in June and with the Ambassador of Algeria last September. It is essential to continue to respect the 1991 ceasefire agreement. Rabat reaffirmed its support for the continuation of the ceasefire and we look forward to the same position of the Frente Polisario. As far as your questions about contacts with the Polisario are concerned, we do not have any which are political, but only administrative. Secondly, our country has always advocated for the prompt appointment of a new personal envoy for Western Sahara, in order to relaunch the political peace process. We openly welcomed the appointment of Staffan de Mistura. Our country is convinced that as an experienced diplomat, with knowledge and experience in the region, Mr. de Mitsura will contribute to giving new impetus to the United Nations process on Western Sahara. In the last vote for the renewal of the mandate of the UN Mission MINURSO in October 2020, Belgium, as a member of the United Nations Security Council, expressed its support for the continuation of MINURSO. The next renewal of MINURSO's mandate is expected to take place on 29 October. This should be a technical extension. As expressed during our mandate to the Security Council 2019-2020, our country has full confidence in MINURSO and its neutral role. It calls on all parties concerned to cooperate fully with the mission before avoiding escalation. With regard to Ms Sultana Khaya, we are aware of her situation, which has been brought to the attention of Mary Lawlor, UN Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights defenders. We will encourage the parties to make the necessary efforts to ensure the protection of human rights as stipulated in UN Security Council resolution 2548, in which it is recommended to strengthen cooperation with the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights. Finally, with regard to your question on the judgment of the Court of the European Union, I can tell you the following. Currently, the stoppage is being analysed. As regards the judicial procedure, the Council still has to decide by December whether it will bring an appeal against the court's judgments. If that is the case, it will be necessary to await the Court's judgment to determine the extent to which the current framework will need to be adapted. If the Council does not bring an appeal, then the judgments of the Court of Justice will be enforceable as soon as the time limit for the lodging of such an appeal has expired. Secondly, through an open and constructive dialogue, the European Union should determine how agreements should be drafted so that they can meet the conditions imposed by the Court. We are confident that the EU and Morocco will succeed. We welcome the joint statement of 29 September by High Representative Borrel and Moroccan Foreign Minister Nasser Bourita that the necessary steps will be taken to ensure the legal framework that will guarantee the continuation and stability of trade relations between the European Union and the Kingdom of Morocco.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic607x.u89	Minister, thank you for that answer. As you know, this conflict is the second oldest conflict in the world, after the Palestinian conflict; and it is the oldest African conflict. Today, Western Sahara is the last African colony. And yet, it is a conflict that is totally forgotten and unknown. Last week I was in the Sahrawi refugee camps in Tindouf, Algeria. I was able to see the situation on the spot, especially from the food and health point of view. It's really not brilliant! Humanitarian aid cannot be the solution. It's an aspirin! But we need an antibiotic! This antibiotic can only be diplomatic and political, certainly as the fighting has resumed. But it is also an antibiotic that must be legal. I think we should welcome the decision of the European Court, but this is only one step. There is now a need to review European policy towards Western Sahara. You say that the EU and Morocco should be able to find a solution. I think we should say that the EU, Morocco and the Saharawis should find a solution. Again on the subject of justice, I plead for contacts to be made with the Moroccan authorities regarding respect for human rights for the Saharawis who are now living under Moroccan administration, whether for Mrs Khaya or for all the others. It is unacceptable to see that such violence is perpetrated against a human rights activist who only exercises her right to freedom of expression. I ask you to keep this in mind.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic607x.u90	Madam President, Mrs Samyn, in reply to your question on the instrument of pre-accession aid and possible funds for Turkey, I can confirm in particular that the regulation that created this instrument was adopted on 15 September 2021. The so-called IPA III, the new regulation on the instrument for pre-accession assistance, pursues the same general objectives as its predecessors, namely financial and technical support for reforms in the candidate countries. However, the Regulation follows a new methodology. While the previous IPA II Regulation did set an indicative amount for each country concerned from the outset, the IPA III Regulation provides for the indicative amount of EUR 14.2 billion for the seven beneficiary countries from the outset divided into five thematic allocation rounds: rule of law, democracy and fundamental rights, good governance, alignment with the acquis, neighbourhood and strategic communication, green agenda and sustainable connectivity, competitiveness and inclusive growth and, finally, cross-border cooperation. These thematic priorities were further developed by the European Commission in detail, in which the Member States were consulted. Our country supports the identified priorities that respond to the challenges in the region concerned. No pre-determined amount has yet been fixed for Turkey. Every beneficiary country will have to negotiate concrete programme proposals with the European Commission within this thematic allocation. The Commission will review them in the light of the different policy documents and then submit them to the Member States represented on the IPA Committee for response. In view of the recent adoption of the Regulation, formal programming for 2021 has yet to be carried out and Member States' opinions have not yet been requested. Programming should follow the principle of more for more. Beneficiaries who make greater efforts towards European integration must also be able to rely on most of the resources. The European Council's current position on the EU-Turkey relationship should also be taken into account specifically for Turkey. In summary, positive cooperation with Turkey is possible in areas of mutual interest, on the one hand, further de-escalation in the eastern Mediterranean and, on the other hand, an improvement in the situation of the rule of law and fundamental rights in Turkey. Let us be honest: Turkey has indeed moved away from EU accession in recent years, but that is the only formal framework we have in our relationship with the country. Programmes corresponding to initiatives which the EU is promoting in other Mediterranean countries which are not candidate countries are in our own interest. For example, IPA funds traditionally include human rights promotion programmes, for the benefit of civil society and support for interpersonal scientific and academic exchanges, such as participation in Erasmus+. These programmes promote pluralism in Turkish society. Finally, with regard to Turkey's EU candidacy, the Belgian position remains that the internal situation in the country stands in the way of further steps. I told you before: the ball is in the Turkish camp. However, an active plea in the Council for a formal termination of the Turkish candidacy would not receive the necessary unanimous support. In the current circumstances, it would be a battle in the water.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic607x.u91	Madam Minister, almost every EU progress report actually amounts to a decline report, and we have not yet discussed the endless provocations and forms of aggression, human rights violations, war crimes, illegal gas drilling and the many conflicts that Turkey is causing. It is therefore a good thing that some caution is being shown at the moment. Thank you for staying, Madam Secretary. That's very nice of you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic607x.u92	I refer to the written version of my question, not without thanking the Minister for her availability and congratulating her on her good report in De Standaard, although that may be even better next time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic607x.u93	The Olympic Winter Games in Beijing are a sporting event where athletes from all over the world can come together to deliver exceptional sports performance. It is not the intention of the Belgian Government to politicise that sporting event. It is still too early to comment on the presence of a representative of the Belgian Government. The measures taken in the fight against COVID-19 in China make the situation very difficult on the ground. I can assure you that the problem of the Uighurs is discussed at all levels during bilateral contacts, both at Belgian level and during contacts between the European Union and China. Belgium has also raised the situation of the Uighurs on several occasions in multilateral fora. Our country will continue to engage in a lasting dialogue on the defence of human rights with the Chinese authorities and with similar countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic607x.u94	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. The Chinese human rights violations are, of course, still a reality. The Chamber adopted a strong parliamentary resolution on the Uighurs on the initiative of the Members of Open Vld. Above all, I would ask you not to validate Chinese policies and human rights violations from the federal government at such a crucial moment as winter games. We need to think about a good approach. It is not the subject of debate now, but sports organisations themselves should look in the mirror when it comes to the place where they organise such international sporting events. That is, of course, not a political issue.
