ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic512x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a good afternoon. I see you're in big trouble. I would like to congratulate you on the fact that no one is in Zoom today. All Commissioners are present, that is to say, the importance of the moment. You are aware that we have all received an email from our colleague Sander Loones asking us to organize our debates according to this sub-thematic. Mr Loones, I am anxious to work effectively in this committee. We agreed to have a real exchange with the ministers present and to have a dynamic. This way of making sub-themes with a reading of the question and answers will not really achieve the objective we set ourselves at the beginning. I propose to keep our way of working, to give the floor to the ministers for their introductory statement on the two themes that we decided to adopt for the exchange of views (the provisional text of the declaration for the revision of the Constitution and the platform for dialogue), and then to allow a dynamic exchange with sufficient time for each group to consider all the questions that its members are asking, within a time limit which leaves time for everyone to react; I propose a 15-hour speaking time for each group, regardless of its importance. After the presentation, each group will have the opportunity to respond. I think this is the most effective way to maintain the momentum and to have a real exchange with the ministers. I therefore propose that you proceed accordingly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic512x.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to talk about this for long. The reason why I sent a number of e-mails is precisely not to waste any time here, not even the time of the ministers. I just want to remind you that we had made a political agreement in the previous committee, in order to have the exchange of views done in blocks. To be honest, I don't care how many cubes that is. But we could have a useful debate in this way. I could say a lot about that, but I won't. I'd like to make a suggestion. You yourself say that there would be an introductory statement on the list of constitutional articles and then on the Dialogue Platform. I suggest we cut that into slices. First, we ask the ministers to make their presentation on, for example, the Constitution. Then we will have the debate on the Constitution. Ministers then presented their views on the Dialogue Platform, followed by the debate on it. Thirdly, we can then see which questions have not yet been answered. They could be covered. These questions are mainly about state reform, about asymmetry and about health care and a number of practical questions. In this way, I believe we have the solution, whereby we structure the debate in three parts. I also assume that the ministers are prepared to do so. Then we can practically start.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic512x.u3	Madam President, I would like to support this, especially in order to keep the explanations which the ministers seem to have prepared on a subject-by-matter basis. So we can ask all our questions about this issue right away. I have a second practical question. In the past, the Community's questions have not been dealt with smoothly. Minister Verlinden gave an answer once in a while in the Committee on the Interior, until it was decided that this would be dealt with in this committee. My question is whether concrete agreements can be made in terms of timing. For how long will both ministers in this committee come to answer the many follow-up questions after today's debate? Now some questions date, especially to Minister Clarinval, months ago. That is why I would like to ask for some planning and regularity in answering the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic512x.u4	Madam President, I am well aware of colleagues' requests, but it seems to me that last week we agreed on a way of working. We are delighted to have our two ministers with us to hold this exchange of views and look forward to hearing them. The discussion that is planned today is, in my view, sensible: temporarily, in the absence of new elements, empty the debate and therefore exhaust the questions that would have been asked on this subject. I therefore do not agree with this request to have a precise timing on the basis of questions tabled, which we are going to discuss today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic512x.u5	Mr Loones, as far as your request is concerned, I know that you are a reasonable person and that we have always worked in good agreement in this committee and that it would be superfluous to go so far as to vote on this kind of practical request. I would like to avoid saucissoning, because I do not know whether, in practice, this will be possible and, on balance, it will only prolong the debate. Maybe we won't even be able to get to the bottom of things (with a first round, a second round, two lines, etc.).). Really, in terms of efficiency, to allow each group to address the topics it wants, which are included in these seven themes – and everyone has the freedom to draw attention to the topic that is most dear to him – is the best way to have a dynamic and more effective debate, Mr Loones. It was good to respond to your request last week that we organized the debates in this direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic512x.u6	Madam President, I do not wish to prolong this discussion, but I take note of the fact that a word is not a word here. Two weeks ago, we had a discussion with colleagues in committee to find a pragmatic solution to the agenda, and that also required the agreement of the opposition. We said we wanted to agree on three conditions. First of all, we wanted to see the ministers together. Thank you for being here together. Secondly, we wanted a real exchange of views, divided into points. There was also an agreement on this. Thirdly, we also had an agreement that would be asked the ministers to come to the committee with a higher frequency. All the understanding that this was more difficult in the past, given the pandemic, but we are now entering a new phase. We also need to normalize this back. We had a political agreement among our colleagues in this committee. If that is not respected today, we will take note of it. We will see what happens when the opposition is called on again to do a number of pragmatic things. What we are asking is not insurmountable. Ministers prepared an introduction to the Constitution. They've prepared a piece on the Dialogue Platform. They're prepared to answer the questions. The only thing we are asking for is to do it in three parts so that we can have good debates. That doesn't have to be necessary for a long time. We are on the committee, not in the plenary. I don't think there's too much show to be staged here. Let us, above all, have a useful debate. I sincerely believe that this can help the debate. However, if colleagues wish to return to a number of agreements made, I take note of them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic512x.u7	Madam President, I absolutely do not want this to take too long because that would undermine the content. If appointments are made, at least I'll try to respect them. Mr Loones, I think there has been a misunderstanding. I think that Mr Loones has properly withheld certain parts of last time's debate, including the appointment to ask oral questions on a regular basis. I also suspect that the division into seven pieces has something to do with this. After all, Mr Loones wants these sub-topics, which are the subject of questions, to be included. I also think that the ministers have prepared themselves in good faith for the way in which they have been informed. Then they should also get started on that right away, especially knowing that other questions can be addressed in the relatively short term through the regular oral questions. I do not have the impression that there is a deliberate violation of an agreement here either by me or by colleagues from the majority. The ministers have prepared themselves in a certain way. I would therefore like to start this way and agree later, when the work is to be arranged, when a next series of oral questions can be scheduled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic512x.u8	Madam President, I would like to conclude with a pragmatic question. I urge that we continue to meet in a room where there is videoconference, so that the debate can be examined in its entirety. I remember a very fine statement by Mr Aouasti or Mr Calvo, who said it was a special committee meeting, because Sander Loones seems to be gaining in for the pragmatic operation of everything. We cannot revisit it, because it was in Parliament's oldest room. On this one, I'd like to appeal to you not to let that happen again. A word is a word.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic512x.u9	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with the Government's agreement of 30 September 2020, it is planned that the government will work in stages on the declaration of revision of the Constitution. In a first phase, called the provisional text, the government provides the House and Senate with a provisional list of articles of the Constitution. This provisional text, together with the note to the Council of Ministers, is forwarded to the Presidents of the House and the Senate in order to ask them to communicate the provisional text to the members and to publish it on their website. The provisional text will be completed during the parliamentary term following the work of the dialogue platform. The draft declaration of revision of the Constitution, which is submitted by the King to the votes of the House and the Senate at the end of the legislature and published as a declaration, contains at least the articles resulting from the provisional text and is supplemented by other articles. As you know, five articles are listed today. Firstly, there are Articles 46 and 96 of the Constitution. Article 46 of the Constitution, as you know, defines the cases in which the King has the right to dissolve the Chamber of Representatives. Article 96 of the Constitution defines the way in which the federal government is formed. The declaration to revise these articles makes it possible to provide a solution to long-standing government formations by providing rules for the formation of a new federal government. For example, a formal deadline or a deblocking mechanism are elements that could be envisaged. In addition, Articles 48 and 142, fifth paragraph of the Constitution are included in the provisional list. The government proposes to allow for the revision of Article 48 of the Constitution. That Article provides that each Chamber shall examine the credentials of its members and settle any disputes arising in this respect. Parliament's decision is not subject to legal proceedings today. The statement to revise exactly that Article 48 is necessary in order to be able to follow Belgium's convictions by the European Court of Human Rights. The government also aims to build in control by the Constitutional Court. To this end, the professional arrangements set out in Article 142 (5) of the Constitution should also be extended to include disputes relating to the verification of the credentials of its members. Finally, Article 195 of the Constitution is also included in the list. In addition to that preliminary statement for revision, we have the Dialogue Platform. As you know, a platform for dialogue on the future of Belgian federalism will be set up under the chairmanship of Minister Clarinval and myself. I would like to stress that the platform for dialogue is a generic term that includes three major dynamics: a broad democratic debate with citizens, civil society, academia and local authorities; thematic working groups; and a dialogue between political representatives. Within these dynamics, a number of processes have been set up in various fora in recent months. The first process is the online process set up within the government's womb and the second process is the involvement of the Länder, which is done through the Inter-Ministerial Conference Institutional Reforms. The third trial will take place within the womb of this Parliament. As regards the first process, the Council of Ministers decided on 30 April to launch an online platform on which citizens, civil society, academics and local authorities will be able to express their views on a wide range of issues, such as modernisation, efficiency gains and deepening the democratic principles of state structures. The results can be further developed within the broader framework of the Dialogue Platform. It goes without saying that these results will be analysed. That Dialogue Platform will therefore be able to take these results of the online interview into account in the dynamics of the Chamber, which will be able to continue this broad democratic debate within its lap, but, as stated in the coalition agreement, complemented by new forms of civic participation that will be possible in various forms of expression as decided by Parliament. In addition, that third process within the Dialogue Platform will be able to follow up on this online survey and thus the thematic working groups will also be able to take into account the results of that online survey, but of course this will also be the subject of political dialogue. Following that decision of 30 April to launch the online platform, the government, by letter of 20 May, invited the Chamber to experiment in its lap with new forms of civic participation, such as civilian Kabinets or mixed panels with representatives of this Parliament and of citizens. This process in the Chamber can be conducted with the report that will result from the online platform. In this way, these two processes can be complementary and mutually reinforcing to the online platform and the deliberative process in the Chamber, thus enabling a rich democratic debate. It is indeed the intention that these two should be coordinated and the Chamber will be able to decide on this. My French-speaking colleague will tell you more about the online platform. As regards the second process, the Council of Ministers decided on 30 April to involve the federated entities as well. The Interdepartmental Conference on Institutional Reforms will be convened by the Prime Minister on 5 or 6 July this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic512x.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, my colleague has already mentioned this to you: one of the essential elements of the government's approach is the online platform. As you know, the federal government has decided to launch a broad democratic debate involving citizens, civil society, academia, experts and local authorities in order to assess the existing structure of our state and make an important contribution to the modernization, increase of efficiency and deepening of the democratic principles of state structures. In the context of the wide-ranging democratic debate, more specifically, two processes will emerge: on the one hand, a participatory process that is taking our attention today, namely the launch of an online platform allowing citizens, civil society, academic circles, experts and local authorities to give their opinion on modernisation, increasing efficiency and deepening the democratic principles of state structures and, on the other hand, a deliberative process in the House of Representatives As you will have understood, the objective is to allow for a democratic debate of quality with two processes which have as common point to allow citizens to express themselves. For what purpose? This broad democratic debate will have to help inform our political representatives during the dialogue provided for in the government agreement with a view to assessing the structure of the State. As you know, a declaration of revision of the Constitution is planned for the end of the legislature. In order to undertake this exercise and increase the democratic legitimacy of the debate, political representatives must, more than ever, listen to the citizens in order to carry out this review. The issue of democratic efficiency is under discussion in all European countries. Our federal country does not escape this questioning. Political crises have not spared us and no one can say that the state of crisis or the difficulty of forming a government or a majority is a good thing for a country's economy. All too often, the previous reforms of the State were carried out without consultation with the population and creating the impression of a gulf between the reality of the field and the institutional text. I believe that the involvement of citizens, civil society and academia in an in-depth and structured debate can only be beneficial to our country. In concrete terms, on 30 April 2021, the Council of Ministers agreed to the launch of the online platform. At that time, he validated a series of decisions. Firstly, the platform My opinion, developed by the DG Digital Transformation of the FOD BOSA, will be used by the Chamber for its online petitions and by various administrations for online projects. Secondly, public procurement will be launched on the one hand with regard to the analysis and handling of data using artificial intelligence and on the other with regard to the substantive support, guidance of the process, the formulation of questions, methodologies and reporting. Thirdly, a secretariat and a scientific committee will be set up. The FOD BOSA was also instructed to draw up a communication plan, which should soon be the subject of an agreement within the Council of Ministers. The communication plan, as you suspect, is an essential element to activate and engage citizens, civil society, academia and local authorities for the exercise. This means that we absolutely must be able to rely on excellent, global and diversified communication. Communication strategies will also have to take different forms in order to be adapted to each target group. This can be done, for example, through campaigns on social networks and generic and specific mass media. Of course, they must evolve and be adapted throughout the process. In addition to the importance of the methodological aspect of such an exercise, which is still very innovative, the scientific framework throughout the process is of course essential. A Scientific Committee will be set up to ensure transparency and impartiality and to ensure the regularity and automatic character of the online platform and the report. The Committee will also guide and assist the process in the formulation of questions, in conceptualisation, in methodology and in reporting. It will also make recommendations to the Ministers for Institutional Reforms and Democratic Renewal in the framework of its missions. The assignments and composition of the scientific committee were translated into a royal decree. We wanted a multidisciplinary composition consisting of constitutional specialists, politicians and civil participation and artificial intelligence experts. Language parity was also respected. The members of the Dutch-speaking side are Wouter Pas, Cato Léonard, Yves Dejaeghere, Annelien De Dijn and Johan Lievens. On the francophone side, the members are Hugues Dumont, Min Reuchamps, Emilie Van Haute, Marie Dufrasnes and Emmanuel Slautsky. As you will see, we wanted a mix of competences, representing constitutional law and political science, in particular the new forms of participatory democracy. Of course, I thank those who will invest time in this mission and help us avoid many of the pitfalls inherent in this kind of exercise. A series of themes have been provisionally established, which will result from the themes of the platform. They still need to be the subject of an opinion of the Scientific Committee. After this work of refinement and the necessary contextualization, everyone will be able to express themselves on these themes within the framework of the online platform. On the basis of these themes, the market for the drafting of the content of the platform may be published. At this stage, the themes are used to define the skills sought to feed the content of the platform. The manner in which the themes are written corresponds to the government agreement and gives it the authority to modernize and make more effective the structure of the country, its federal institutions, rights and freedoms and competencies in a fairly broad manner. The first theme deals with the fundamental principles of the structure of the Belgian State, which has a federal, regional and Community power, with the sharing of exclusive powers of a different nature and over defined territories. The aim is to enable everyone to contribute by providing ideas, suggestions and experiences: experiences on the distribution of competences, the hierarchy of standards and the equipollence of standards; also on cooperation agreements, joint decrees, the distinction between regions and communities, etc. After competence, the issue is finance and solidarity mechanisms, accountability mechanisms, principles of fiscal autonomy and autonomy, the principle of economic and monetary union, the principle of non-unfair tax competition. The third theme is cooperative federalism, harmonization of the exercise of powers between the federal government and the Communities and Regions, representation and involvement of federated entities in the federal decision-making process, and of the federal government in the federal decision-making process. This theme also includes the role, missions and composition of the Senate, the role of the Consultation Committee, etc. Another area of concern is the strengthening of democracy. Can we expect an enrichment of our representative democracy through a more direct participation of citizens in the political decision-making process? And by what means? The various experiences of citizen participation, the assemblies drawn by lot, the mixed panels will be the subject of an approach within the platform. The German-speaking Community is cited as an example in Europe for its participatory process and other parliamentary assemblies have also begun work in this direction. The majority agreement provides that the House will also be able to deal with such projects. The government will assist Parliament in this mission. It is indeed the assembly that is being manoeuvred and proposals have been tabled and still need to be formally approved after debate in your House. Another element that raises the question is the repetition of political crises in which parties no longer manage to form a majority and to designate a full-fledged government. It is a phenomenon that is present in many European countries. In Belgium, can the dissolution procedure of the Chamber be remodelled? Can the types of elections and electoral systems be used to ensure political stability? The topics also include the federal electoral district, French, Dutch and German-speaking electoral colleges used for the election of the European Parliament, the size of the electoral districts, the possibility of voting for different lists in the same election and the enlargement of the electoral corps. Then there is the process of amending the Constitution, which is central to the functioning of any modern democracy. Is that too strict right now? Who should be involved in a review? The questions on strengthening democracy will also cover Parliament's role in command of the armed forces, transparency of government data and digitisation, the evolution of public policy and electoral programmes. Another important issue that could be addressed on the platform is the modernisation of fundamental rights. You are currently discussing the modernisation of Article 25 on the freedom of the written press and its extension to other media. Belgium's participation in the European Union, the mandate and composition of the Constitutional Court, the control of mechanisms for participatory democracy, are all topics on which contributions can be made in the exercise of the online platform. As I said, the issues will still have to be discussed within the scientific committee, so that the best approach is taken each time in an exercise such as that of the platform. Because it is so new, it is difficult to predict how this initiative will be received by those who would participate in it. We are looking at recent examples in Belgium, abroad and at European level, and we are trying to draw lessons from each of these examples. The platform will open before the end of 2021 and it will allow a consultation of about six weeks. This timing remains flexible due to the possible future recommendations of the Scientific Committee in this respect. In addition, the use of an online platform for this type of democratic exercise could be repeated if required in the course of the legislature. Finally, a report will be drawn up after the consultation in order to gather all the contributions, opinions and proposals resulting from this process. This report will be handed over to the government and the political representatives. It will be made public, so that anyone who wants it will be able to read it. As you know, this challenge is immense and the expectations are even greater. It is an unpublished initiative in our country, and that is why we need good will to turn this democratic debate into a real opportunity to improve our country. However, we must not close our eyes; it is a difficult exercise for a whole series of reasons, which will require the expertise of specialists in this area. Many specialists who have studied the exercises of participatory democracy say at some point that the organizer should shed light on the whole process. The government's intentions must be made clear. The whole process must be presented and the question of what will happen to the answers, contributions and reports must be answered. It will largely be up to Parliament to take over the best elements of the platform's report. Certain subjects may be the subject of mixed panels and civilian Kabinets. These will be organized by the Chamber, where the government is willing to assist the Chamber in its implementation and where the Chamber will determine the themes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic512x.u11	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, it is nice to have you here in committee to be able to hold the debate. We look forward to being able to carry it out more frequently and thoroughly over the next few months. I will follow your structure and first ask some questions about the list of articles of the Constitution that have been declared subject to revision, then I will ask questions about the Dialogue Platform and then some questions about the state reform. Firstly, the passage on the list of articles of the Constitution which are subject to revision is one of the most pleasant passages in the coalition agreement. We all know that the Constitution can only be revised to a limited extent during the current legislature and that there is no special majority to amend special laws. The question is therefore what can be done by a simple majority. We have also made that exercise internally with our party. We then made a note of more than 80 pages, to which our group colleague Liesbeth wrote along with a whole bunch of party employees. The note dealt with what could be done by a simple majority in the field of Community policy. At some point, Tillo Baert comes up with a proposal, which is fun, which is not legally committed, but creates a political dynamic. He proposed that instead of making a list of articles which could be revised at the end of the term of office, he should do so at the beginning of the term of office. That is one of Tillo Baert's proposals that were in the note and which we also discussed with the PS in the summer of 2019. I was very pleasantly surprised to note that this idea was retained in the coalition agreement, for which I thank you. This creates some political reality. The proposal is not legally binding, but it is a piece of political reality. Honesty requires us to note that a false start has been made in this area. After all, the coalition agreement states that the list would be there at the start of the coalition agreement. We had to wait seven months. The number of articles on the list is quite limited. That's why I have some questions for you. Firstly, specifically for Mr Clarinval, I note that we have all noted that the revision of Article 195 is on the list and that it is not only justified that the article is on it, because the procedure may be revised. It is also quite explicit that 'the purpose of Article 195 is, in particular, a new state structure from 2024 with a more homogeneous and efficient division of powers, etc'. Mr Clarinval, do you confirm that Article 195 is subject to revision by the whole government and that there is therefore also a political commitment to use this article for a major state reform, as was the case with the previous reform in 2011? Specifically, Mr Clarinval, I would like your answer on that. Mrs Verlinden, the following question is specifically addressed to you. The same article states that "Article 195, in particular, may be revised in order to allow for a new state structure from 2024 onwards." Is it effective to allow a large Community round from 2024 onwards, as provided for in the coalition agreement? I ask you the question because in a recent interview your party chairman Coens spoke about Switzerland on the North Sea and he raised the date of 2030. I assume that you, as Minister, are working on the loyal implementation of the coalition agreement, which talks about 2024. It would be good to get confirmation that the timeline for you is also effective 2024. On the list of constitutional articles, I have a number of questions to ask you together. The list is limited. We are glad that Article 195 is on it, we can do a few things with it. Furthermore, the list is limited and that surprised me a bit. First of all, has that list always been so limited? At first there were more articles on it, but didn't they make it to the final cut? Are there any articles that are missing? If this is the case, what articles? Secondly, if we look at the ambitions of the coalition agreement and compare them with the list of constitutional articles before us, then it is clear that a number of articles appear to be missing. The coalition agreement states that work will be done on a reflection exercise for reform of the Senate. The constitutional articles that are relevant to this are not on the list. The coalition agreement says that work will be done to review the number of parliamentarians, the number of ministers, the number of politicians. If we want to do something about this effectively, we should declare Articles 99 and 104 to be subject to revision. These concern the number of ministers and the number of secretaries of state. If we look further at the electoral system, on which commitments were included in the coalition agreement, then Articles 62 and 63 should also be subject to revision. None of them are on the list. Is there an A list and a B list? Will the government really do a number of things as stated in the coalition agreement and a few things less? It simply stands out that the coalition agreement provides for a number of things, but that the articles in question are not included in the list. Is the level of ambition for matters such as fewer ministers, fewer parliamentarians, reform of the Senate, otherwise? That's just a bill question. I have one final question on the articles of the Constitution. This is, of course, a political commitment. Lawyers are aware of all this. At the end of the legislative term that will have to be further finalized. There's a list coming from the Chamber, one from the Senate and one from the government. However, I would like to be confirmed by you that at least in your head today, because in politics everything can change quickly, at least everything that is on this list today should be on the government's final list at the end of the legislature. That too, Mr Clarinval, is a question which is addressed to you in particular. We can have a whole political discussion about the Dialogue Platform. Do we believe in it or do we believe in it less? You will recall from the debate on the policy statement that we are in favour of a representative democracy with Members of Parliament who are very close to the electorate, which means that there is a flow between the Dorpsstraat and the Rue de la Loi. We understand you'd like to do that differently. I do not want to repeat this debate here, it has been extensive and the positions have clearly not changed. What is new is the very high level of ambition around that Dialogue Platform. We have heard today from Mr Clarinval, in his introductory statement, that the Dialogue Platform will not only be used for a number of institutional issues, i.e. not just for political renewal. It'll actually be used for anything and everything. The entire coalition agreement could be confessed to that. Minister Clarinval even spoke of the Defense Department. I have to tell you, I was a little surprised. I am particularly surprised that the Greens agree that an instrument that seemed to be working very focused risks drowning in the totality of a government policy. Anyway, it's not up to me to decide what each group thinks. At least I find it interesting. We've had a very extensive list. Especially when we are in the opposition, I would like governments to set that bar very high. I'll be happy to check out what was effectively realized at the end of the ride. That is a rather political remark, for which I apologise. I'd like to ask you a few more questions. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic512x.u12	Those were billy questions. If your government agreement provides for fewer ministers and fewer Members of Parliament to come and your list does not provide for that, then that seems to me to be a factual question. I also have a number of factual questions about the Dialogue Platform. We've already asked questions. I would also like to recommend to all my fellow Members the reading of the answer to my written question No. 510 of 16 April, which already contained very broad information on the approach of the Dialogue Platform. On that basis and on the basis of what you have just said, I have a number of additional questions. Firstly, the answer to my written question gives a lot of details about the design, construction and development, but it also states that further details about the public contract are currently being worked out in collaboration with the FOD BOSA. All the way to the end, there is also the following: "The above answers are extracts from the memorandum of the Council of Ministers. Given that the note contains information on the budgets, it is not appropriate to distribute them in full prior to the conclusion of public contracts." I do not see why we should not know what budget is being allocated to the Dialogue Platform. If a public contract is to be launched, a specifications will also have to be launched. Then you must have some idea how much that will cost. I believe that citizens are entitled to transparency in this respect. Can you indicate what the budget will be for the functioning of the Dialogue Platform? Ideally, I get this broken down by year, but every number is interesting. A second question concerns the Scientific Committee. In the answer to my written question there is a lot to be found on this, but not on the content. It didn't say who exactly would be part of that scientific committee. That's what we heard today. There is a royal decision in the making and a number of names have already been decided. I regret the government's unilateral decision. When a story of cooperation, respect and connection is written, an exercise that we know we need a two-thirds majority that will go beyond this legislature, this might have been the time to discuss it. Moreover, I believe that this would also de facto benefit the neutrality of such an exercise. However, you decide to do it differently. What I would like to call to is this. I have heard some very eminent names of lawyers, names that create confidence, but at first sight I have not heard the names of people who have experience of polling, for example. We have, in the past, accompanied opinion polls with our party. The technique to formulate questions sufficiently precise to be able to perform a useful exercise is special. It is not obvious to ask a question which is sufficiently clear and which does not imply a position that would push people in a particular direction. I would therefore like to call for this expertise to be included, so that the scientific nature of such a survey is guaranteed to the maximum. I know from experience that such a thing is not obvious. Minister Clarinval's reply shows that a report will be prepared on all the responses of the Dialogue Platform. The answer to my written question also said that ideas and proposals would be brought together in a report. Will Members only see the bundled report or the raw basic data? I can imagine that you will answer that this is a huge amount of data and that we will no longer be able to see the trees through the forest. For a simple lawyer or a simple Member of Parliament, that may be true, but I think that data can be useful for further scientific research. I therefore call for this to be considered and not just for the report but for the full exercise to be made available in all transparency so that researchers can get on with it. Your answer to my written question says that artificial intelligence will be used to extract all these data and extract the report. Let me quote for my fellow Members: 'The artificial intelligence treatment of the results will have to guarantee the principle of loyalty (respect for diversity of opinions in treatments) and avoid prejudice, discrimination and the exclusion of unstandardized statements'. From this, I understand that a computer system will filter the information submitted and will check whether it is going to be standardized or non-standardized statements, namely whether people are allowed to say or not to say certain things. In the light of all the discussions on freedom of expression, this is potentially a difficult issue. It seems important to me to know when exactly certain information will be pushed aside by you or your computer program: from when does an opinion no longer count? Will that be based on a number of keywords that should not be used? How exactly will that work? I hope that we will try as best we can to give all our opinions room and respectfully deal with them. That is the fourth question, which seems to me to be most touching on the essence of all of this and the question of its relevance. For if that concern cannot be removed, there will always be people who have the impression that their opinion is being pushed aside by the application of a filter. Another question is about timing. When that question was asked during the discussion on the policy paper, especially Minister Verlinden, in reply to Mr Calvo's question, made it clear that the Dialogue Platform will be used until December for the institutional. From January next year it would be used for political renewal and such, and if we continued with the statements made by Minister Clarinval, for everything. Your answer to Mr Calvo's question was clear at that time: until the end of the year Community, then other points. My question to you is: is your answer still as clear? Is it still intended to complete the institutional part of the Dialogue Platform by the end of the year? In any event, that timing would correspond to the mandate now given to the Joint Committee on Institutional Reforms Chamber-Senaat, which also states that there should be a report on institutional matters by the end of the year. Please confirm your verdict, Madam Secretary. I have one final question about the Dialogue Platform, which I already link with my next questions on state reform. I sincerely ask myself how we can spend our time most usefully. I made that point in plenary last Thursday. For example, the Flemish Parliament is analysing the state reform, what is going well and what is not going well. You say that a report on state reform will be produced by the end of the year, but I doubt whether I can estimate the real value of that statement very much, to be politely worded. Would it not be better to anticipate this and make it 1+1 2 and see how we can spend our time most usefully? The most useful and very priority should be to investigate a way of implementing part of your coalition agreement, namely the part on asymmetric policy. We are all engaged in this great state reform, but there is not much more talk about asymmetric policy, even though the government agreement makes very concrete promises on this matter. This brings me to the third part of my questions on asymmetric policy, which I would have liked to have asked you to saucisson. We have had a debate on this before and you have already answered several questions. You specifically said that you asked all the ministers what they would do about asymmetric policies. It would be interesting to hear a state of affairs, because we still haven't gotten it. I myself have asked many ministers this question, but the answers are very disappointing. In fact, I have not had a single answer; so I hope they have said more to you. It seems to me that no minister has the ambition to get to work on this, and they do not say it at all, and the composition of their cabinet shows it. You will remember, Madam Minister, that at some point I asked you how many of your cabinet staff are dealing with institutional reforms. That was two, but that wasn't a big deal, you said, because all the cabinets count institutional specialists, who will work together in one team. I have also verified this with all the Deputy Prime Ministers and it shows that they often have no one in their cabinet to carry out the institutional dossiers. If they have someone, it is usually the lawyer who is asked to follow the institutional theme. That really worries me, because I would hope that the institutional part of your coalition agreement will be taken sufficiently seriously by your colleagues. However, I can only observe that they have in any case provided no one for this in their cabinet and that none of them has indicated that they have freed up budgets to purchase external expertise for that purpose. If they already have someone for this, it's a person who has to follow the legal files. I am concerned about this asymmetric policy. It does not seem that this chapter of the coalition agreement will be implemented. I hope, however, that my impression is wrong. Have you discussed this with your colleagues? What was their answer? Have you discussed this with the Prime Minister? After all, he is the keeper who must ensure that the entire coalition agreement is implemented. In any case, you will have found that you have a strong advocate to the Flemish Government for this. In an opinion piece in De Tijd, Mrs Crevits reached out to you and asked you to implement this quickly for labour market policy, because this is also important for the revival after corona, if we want to increase the rate of effectiveness effectively. There needs to be tailor-made work so that everyone can do their thing. So far, my questions about asymmetric policy. I also have questions about the model of state reform, health care and the cabinet organisation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic512x.u13	Mr Loones, I would like all the political groups to be able to intervene. Could you come to your questions? There will then be a second round and you will have the opportunity to reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic512x.u14	Madam President, I will make sure that I do not delay time unnecessarily. I note that all the questions have been put together and are on the agenda, so I have no choice but to ask them. I would remind you that I would have preferred this to be different. Health policy is a key issue where one could work asymmetrically, but in particular the government agreement makes a number of promises. It is the subject of priority work, which is explicitly stated in the coalition agreement. I was pleased to read in Le Soir of 8 March that there would be a working group working with experts from parties and also financial experts to model a number of things. For the rest, I haven't seen anything about that, but I assume that Le Soir is well informed. However, I have a number of questions to ask you. Has that working group started? Who's a part of it? Are you a tractor from that working group? Are all the other Cabinets represented in it or is that theme drawn by the government of competent Minister Frank Vandenbroucke? The latter also does not have a specific lawyer on this file, I asked him. Nor has he allocated any funds to provide for this. Maybe he already has. Is that working group working and how broad is its mandate? Is he working on the totality of health care or is a distinction being made between the cost-compensating part and the rest of Health? Is the financial hatch included? How exactly will that be dealt with? So much for health care. Then I briefly had a question about general policy to Mr Clarinval. We have seen an interesting interview with Mr Coens about Switzerland on the North Sea, the model that CD&V wants to put forward. Mr Coens goes very clearly for a model with strong municipalities. A model that puts the Flemish and French communities at the centre and then lets them decide what limited powers remain at the federal level. That is a quote from Mr Coens and it is a 2+2 model. My question to you, Mr Clarinval, is the 2+2 model still fully on the table? Will it be included as one of the possible options in preparing the major state reform by 2024? I will conclude, Madam and Minister, with a number of questions about the working group that will start in joint consultation between the Senate and the Chamber. I would very much like to know whether you have looked at the debate in the plenary session on the mandate: it has been approved unchanged, but we had an interesting exchange of views where Mr Verherstraeten, in particular, made a number of statements. One was about the involvement of the cabinet in this consultation: our question was to ensure that your cabinets would always be present at those talks, ideally yourself, or if not a representative. Mr Verherstraeten's reply was that that seemed logical to him; he referred to the debates on the sixth state reform, in which he and his cabinet staff also followed those meetings. My question to you is: are you committed to being there? Will you also watch over this commitment to your fellow ministers? For example, when we talk about the federalisation of health care, it seems interesting to me that Minister Vandenbroucke or at least someone from his cabinet is present. A second question concerns the mandate of the committee, which I will keep for that committee itself. A third question: I deeply regret that in that committee the German-speaking Community will not have a full vote, but only an advisory one. This is for the simple reason that the German-speaking senator is part of the MR group, but the MR that does not want to be regarded as surplus and therefore has no full participation. I find that very regrettable, and I would like to hear your opinion on this: do you share this disappointment? Or do you think that a German-speaking Member of Parliament with a purely consultative voice is sufficient?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic512x.u15	Madam President, I have great sympathy for Mr Loones. Although we have very different views on this subject, we also share the passion for it. I'll try to be a little shorter. I don't know if I can live up to that promise, but I'm really gonna try. After all, I think that an exchange of views such as this is a good thing. If we want to make a habit of it, we must also try to organise ourselves efficiently. I welcome the exchange of views for various reasons. It is a format that allows a little more debate and dialogue than the oral questions, where things have to be completed very quickly. Mr Loones understood his intervention as questions to Minister Verlinden and Minister Clarinval. I have a different view on an exchange of views. An exchange of views means not only asking questions, but also making suggestions. Then you can work on it, or you may disagree with it, but that is how I understood it. I think we really should do this on issues like this. Recently it has been shown that this way of working can be successful. Mrs Verlinden herself pioneered the preliminary draft pandemic law. In the end, this has not led to consensus, but it has led to an interesting substantive debate by involving Parliament proactively and by holding an open exchange of views. Your partymate has recently set a good example. The Minister for Finance, Vincent Van Peteghem, himself spontaneously asked for an exchange of views on fiscal reform with Parliament. This is what the committee asked for. I think this is a good way of working that can certainly inspire. This exchange of views can also overcome the uncertainty that may sometimes arise on these issues. I do not know if you have noticed, Madam Minister, but Mr Loones said that the Dialogue Platform should be terminated by the end of 2021. Then one sees a confusion of understanding that still exists. You have said that the Dialogue Platform will run longer. It includes many components, but the online search will basically run until the end of 2021. I believe that exchanges of views such as this can help to make things clearer and clearer. If even someone like Mr Loones, who is very involved in the matter, is still confused, there is a need for clarity. I would be happy if we had a regular exchange of views in this way. That is a way to hunt you down, inspire you and keep you to yourself, but also vice versa. Mr Loones has not noticed, but you have actually given us both a lot of homework. I believe that this is the advantage of an exchange of views. That is why I take it as an exchange of views and not as a classic question session. You have said that there are a lot of things that Parliament needs to get going. The online platform is initiated by the government. You have taken the necessary steps. But after that it is up to Parliament to do other things. In that sense, it is also for me an exchange of views between the groups, which we should not forget for too long. Otherwise, the timing of a number of things will be compromised. That was my introduction, which once again expresses the importance of the subject of the Constitution for our group. Let me go into more detail about the content, first and foremost about the list of constitutional articles. I don't think it's a kosher thing to talk out of negotiations. I would not do that myself as easily as Mr Loones, but what I think is even less kosher is blabbing about the negotiations, but forgetting important pieces. Mr Loones says that there was once a note of 80 pages from the N-VA. It was actually an idea of the N-VA to declare the articles of the Constitution subject to revision and to announce it at the beginning of the legislature. That was on the table during the negotiations between the N-VA and the PS. That is only part of the reality of what was on the table at the time. I actually find it a pleasant passage, but only because another part that was on the table at the time has disappeared. I remember the headquarters of N-VA in Koningsstraat. I remember the Wi-Fi code during the conversations with Bart De Wever in the summer. I had just returned from the Opal Coast. I thought we'd end up in the opposition. At the time, I thought N-VA and PS would come to an agreement. But what was on the table then? Not just the fact that Article 195 would already be announced, what we are doing now, not only that we would initiate an exercise at the beginning of the legislature, but that that legislative period would last only two years. That was the big problem that was on the table at the time. I'm sure it wasn't a P.S. idea. Then the N-VA said she'd start the legislature, but only halfway. Then corona would be over, and it would be time for the big Community big bang. The idea of the N-VA was to declare the Constitution already open for revision. I can see Bart De Wever saying it in the Koningsstraat: after two years, the corona crisis is over and we declare the Constitution open for revision and we are organising a referendum on the end of Belgium. I am, in all honesty, glad that part of that passage has been killed and that the pleasant part of the exercise is left. It is a pleasant passage because the Vivaldi government says from the beginning that it has the ambition to reform the country. We are creating comfort for certain coalition partners who want to know that this will actually happen at the end of the legislature and that Article 195 will really be on that list, unlike in the previous legislature. However, everyone knows why this has not happened, Mr Loones, because the government has stumbled over the non-binding UN migration pact. For substantive and political reasons, we have decided to initiate a process and give comfort, but in particular we are sending the message that we want to reform the country. It is therefore a pleasant passage, but fortunately it is different from the passage that was on the table in the summer of 2020. It is less political, but still political, because you should not pretend it is not political when you intervene on these issues. We have now opted for a limited list, Madam Minister, Minister. For my group, this list should really grow, because our Constitution needs to be modernised on various issues. Nor am I a fan of the improper use of Article 195. I understand that some groups consider this possibility important, but I am not a fan of it. In this respect, I agree with the criticism expressed following the announcement of the list. As regards the list of articles of the Constitution which are subject to revision and the intention of Vivaldi, which is fortunately different from that of the N-VA. Secondly, the institutional and the Dialogue Platform. It's a good thing we're experimenting with that. That will mean that we will have to adjust and monitor along the way. It is no secret that our group would like to fill in that participatory part. I said openly during the policy statement that I was a little concerned about the short-term. There are uglier things being said. That is a substantive concern, not a question of coalition problems, mistrust or conflicts, which Mr Loones is trying to make of it. Participation must be credible. It is therefore important that the government has also explicitly stated that this is more than a six-week online survey. Let there be no misunderstanding about that. There can be no misunderstanding about this after the explanatory statement by both ministers. My concern with the policy statement was that only a six-week survey is not the dialogue we need on the future of this country. It is Parliament's responsibility to quickly shape that deliberative phase, that interaction with citizens in the womb of the Chamber. In any case, I am glad that there is no misunderstanding in this respect from the government. That wasn't always clear. Parliament may also be able to cooperate with citizens in a different way than the online survey, but the responsibility lies with the Chamber to shape it quickly. As far as democratic renewal is concerned too, I do not think Mr Loones has fully understood it, I do not want to be offensive. If you say that the Dialogue Platform is not just about the institutional and you suspect some concern about it at Ecolo-Green, I am actually pleased with that. That is not new to me, for Mr Loones more apparently. It is good that these themes are addressed in the Dialogue Platform and specifically in the online survey. The government has already made choices on a number of issues. I call that phase 1 of the renewal: voting rights at 16 years, setting up deliberative panels and so on. But for the matters covered by phase 2, the coalition agreement does not yet give a clear direction and the idea is to reflect on this. It's a good thing we're consulting citizens about that. The distinction between phase 1 and phase 2 also explains to me a little why certain articles are now on the list and other articles may not be published until later. For example, the electoral system, the number of members of parliament and the Senate have not yet been chosen in the coalition agreement. We will organise a reflection on this. It seems logical to me that at the end of the journey those articles will also be on the list. That's about how it could turn out. As far as the approach to democratic renewal is concerned, I also think that we should decide very quickly how to organise it in a parliamentary capacity. I think that the Minister is also asking for this, because it is probably very annoying to have questions on subjects for which Parliament actually has competence. That's why I don't have a lot of questions for you. The matters for which the government is responsible are very clear to me. What Parliament has to do is less clear to me. I say that openly, without wanting to fish anyone. The government has said on a number of issues that Parliament must take charge of, but with the exception of the Joint Committee of the Chamber and the Senate, no decision has yet been taken on this matter. I would like to discuss the method before the summer recess. We cannot continue to complain in the corridors about the participation and the lack of room for Parliament. We really need to think about this and not wait and excel in inertia and status quo. I think it would be a good idea to involve citizens in the reform of representative democracy. That may sound like a contradiction or something that cannot be reconciled, but I think it is just as good to involve citizens in the future of representative democracy, which is also dear to us, Mr Loones, with our own rules of the game. Perhaps we can be inspired by the exercise that was done at the beginning of this century in the Canadian province of British Columbia, where a civil platform of looted citizens and politicians was set up to debate the future of the electoral system. This was done over the period 2001-2002 and resulted in a series of recommendations. A number of issues in the coalition agreement, such as the future of the Senate, the future of our electoral system or the role of citizens in the representative system, are, in my view, eligible for a joint committee consisting of citizens and elected politicians. However, this can only be done if there is a change in the Rules of Procedure, as has been done in the Brussels Parliament. I'll put my cards on the table. I would like us to decide very quickly how we will not get the mandate that Parliament has received from the government, because we have it, but in our political system it is now getting it. I think the model of the Citizens' Assembly of British Columbia can be very inspiring. Madam President, we are about to have the order of business. I think it might also be interesting to learn from those experiences. We may be able to organise hearings in this committee before the summer to discuss this together. I don't have a lot of questions. I hope you don't mind. I have spoken for quite some time, but that is because there is some work on the table in this committee, in this Parliament. As far as I am concerned, that is not only work for the majority, but preferably with the opposition. That work is best done in public. On such themes, of course, something is drawn and pushed behind the scenes. That's normal, because they're all sensitive themes. However, I believe that this can also lead to rich substantive debates in public. Therefore, my idea is to organise regular exchanges of views on the interplay, the matters you need to do and the matters we need to do, quarterly. I think that is more efficient than the setting up of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic512x.u16	Madam President, I thank the Ministers for their presentation. You take your responsibilities, the government takes its own, and it will be up to the assemblies to take their own. There are several debates that we will have to start and we know how constitutional reform works: there is not just a government responsibility to take, there is a responsibility of parliamentarians to take. Mr Loones has understood this and is putting pressure on these debates to move forward. He's right, it's an important debate. I'm not going to rewrite the story here. There were several things that were done either in the summer of 2019 or in 2010, where some wanted to work on article 32 of the Constitution and there were desires to go in a way that others did not want. Luckily, we haven't been there. Starting the process is important. We need to confirm the government agreement that indicates agreement on a shortlist. The list is restricted for two reasons: on the one hand, it is an agreement and, on the other, there is a willingness to work on the most urgent articles (46, 48, 96, 142, 195). Through 195, we know that all the possibilities are open since as soon as Article 195 is reformed, we can reform everything. Jurists and constitutionalists know that, and that's why we didn't touch it. It was the sacred calf for a while. He's de-acralized. There is nothing intangible, neither the Constitution, but it will still be necessary to be careful if we decide to open 195 and to see what is to be done since considering that everything can and must be done under the same legislature means that if we were to limit ourselves to this only open article, we could consider that from the next legislature, the whole Constitution would be open for revision. It's an interpretation, but I think it's actually reality. There is also this desire of the government, through this limited framework, to respect the words given to the citizen, namely to consider that the citizen must be involved through a constituent, citizen panels, citizen assemblies. The model is not quite defined, but the citizen must be able to express his views and participate in defining the future of the Belgian institutional future. We must all remember that the Constitution is not just the question of institutions. It is the question of fundamental rights and freedoms and it is a whole series of other things. As soon as two weeks ago, there was an important debate on the issue of neutrality, impartiality or secularism in the Constitution. It is also an element that, in our view, could be integrated into this debate, either through a Constituent or by others. But it is important to launch this message, and launch through a platform, whose contours you have redefined, which is not reduced to an internet platform, and which should land at the end of this year, I think. We will not say here what others will do and what citizens will decide until the end of 2021. We will give them the floor, let the choice be made, let the choice be made to indicate their priorities. Then we will take a decision on the priorities that will be defined by each other through all these elements, and we will take it up with the government, we will take it up here in this committee, we will take it up with us in the Senate, as senators will also have to deal with it. We will have to see the form in which it is dealt with, since a commission like this will have to play an increasingly important and important role. We will have to be able to provide a framework for doing things carefully, seriously, because we do not touch the Constitution easily. We have already seen it through a few debates that have animated us, whether article 23 or article 25. You can see that a change of word can have a huge impact. I will limit my intervention to saying that I thank you for your clarification. Finally, I thank the government for coming up with this debate, and for telling us, at some point, "You, Parliament, are not just here to ask questions and question us about our responsibility, but to take your responsibilities too." We will have to take them, but let us not preempt the debates. Let's wait until the organisation you are responsible for can allow a large citizen panel, NGOs, civil society, academics (you have spoken of academic panels with interesting names) to pronounce, advise, enlighten us. I think we will decide in the coming months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic512x.u17	Mr President, I can follow Mr Calvo when he says that exchanges of views are interesting, but some 20 pending questions have been added. If I have not yet received an answer to that in the general statement, I will, of course, ask those questions as well. I would like to thank the Ministers for their explanation. I'll follow their order, too. I shall begin by referring to the list of articles of the Constitution which will at least be declared subject to revision, as announced in the coalition agreement. We had to wait a little longer. For a government that claims to want to prepare a thorough reform of its structures, it is a very limited list. It is a very short list of five articles and only one article has to do with the state reform. The other articles have been explained. Two articles must comply with a judgment of the European Court of Justice, namely the appeal procedure which does not yet exist in the Court's credentials. Then there are Articles 46 and 96. In terms of unblocking mechanisms and deadlines, as it is difficult to get to a government here, this is, of course, symptom control. It is only the results of the elections and the polls that need to be looked at in order to make it difficult to reach a government here. Then it can be established that we live in two democracies. In Wallonia there is a very different vote than in Flanders. That difference is getting bigger after polling. Of course, this cannot be solved by interfering with the electoral system. That does not solve the cause at all because that cause lies in the state structure. Then there is the sacred cow, Article 195. Of course, it's no surprise that that's on the list. That was already announced in the coalition agreement. We know that Article 195 is a passe-partout to amend that whole Constitution, as was done in the sixth state reform. Mr Verherstraeten will also recall that the way in which the structures of the Constitution are reformed is not the most sensible way. That has come up against a lot of criticism from the legal community. I understand that the argument for this very poor list is that people do not want to take a preliminaries for that citizen questioning. That argument does not apply when it comes to matters in your coalition agreement. So I ask myself why it was limited to those five articles? Why are the articles necessary for a number of things that you yourself write in your coalition agreement not included in that list, namely the abolition of the Senate, the electoral system and the revision of the number of Members of Parliament? I don't understand. A second question is the following. If it is really the government's intention to prepare a major reform of the institutions, a new state structure as the government agreement literally states, by 2024, why not open up the Constitution much more widely, which is necessary for that? Are you committed to drastically extending that ridiculously short list by the end of the reigning period? You know my opinion about the Dialogue Platform. The most objective way to participate is through a parliament representative democracy. In addition, if you want real citizen participation, you have to organise referendums. We all know that this is not constitutionally possible. This country can't handle that much democracy. The last referendum, on the king's issue, has shown that there may be significant differences in both parts of the country. Apart from that, I have a lot of questions at that Dialogue Platform. I listened very carefully to Secretary Clarinval. He mentioned a communication plan to involve the four groups of citizens, civil society, academic experts and local authorities and the use of different communication strategies per target group. For the first time, we have taken note of the composition of that scientific committee. In your reply, I will re-examine who is all part of it. At first sight, however, I did not seem to have any communication specialists, although the way in which the questions are formulated is very important. Madam and Minister, that is why I have the following questions for you. How will it be ensured that the neutrality of the question is preserved? This is essential when it comes to the citizen. What are the chalk lines of that survey? Minister, you have listed a number of issues. However, it is not clear to me whether the questioning remains exclusively within a Belgian federal model, or whether the citizens will also have the opportunity to express themselves equally on other models, such as, for example, confederalism and an orderly division of the country. How will the announcement to citizens be understood? How will neutrality be guaranteed? This neutrality must be ensured when asking the question, unless I have to expect a more belgian campaign in the nature of the campaign 11 million Belgians, one team, tous ensemble'. I would like to have some explanation about that. On the concrete timetable for the survey, I note that, contrary to the original answers, we have already moved somewhat towards the end of 2021. However, I would also like to see more concrete expression on this issue. It talks about the four groups that the government wants to involve, namely citizens, civil society, academics/experts and local authorities. Do they each account for an equal share of the final report? What does the distribution look like? Will every citizen be given the opportunity to express his opinion? Originally I have heard ideas of draw and that's more. Will every citizen have the chance? In what way will this happen? Is a selection made somehow? If that is the case, how will the representativeness of it be ensured? I am also very curious about the budget of the entire Dialogue Platform. Minister, in what you have explained about the report of all the answers that we will receive, I wonder whether those answers will also be broken down in the report by language group, which might be very relevant. In the context of transparency, I would like to ask whether we will not only have the report available, but also the full data, because if we only get the report, we will obviously need some transparency about filtering the answers. As far as the content of the inquiry is concerned, Minister Clarinval drew my attention when he listed the solidarity and financing mechanisms, which I was pleased to hear. After all, I had already asked the Minister of Finance whether, in the context of the discussion on the Dialogue Platform, he was prepared to carry out a study on the billions of transfers that exist from Flanders to Wallonia and which, depending on the study that is being consulted, range from EUR 7 to EUR 12 and even EUR 16 billion per year, so that the debate can be conducted on the basis of objective figures. The Minister of Finance has all the necessary information, but he bounced the ball back to you, Mr and Mrs Minister. He said he would make his cabinet and administration available to the ministers of institutional reform if they needed him to do so. Will you use that? Will you ask Minister Van Peteghem that question? It seems essential to me that we should be able to conduct the debate on the basis of objective data. We must not wait for the preparatory work, but we must ensure that these studies are completed by the start of the Dialogue Platform. As regards the other questions, Mr Loones already referred to the statements of the President of CD&V that Belgium should have achieved 2.0 by 2030. I found that very curious statements for a government party which, in the coalition agreement, set itself the objective of carrying out a major state reform in 2024 and keeping a Belgium 2.0 above baptismal font by then. Moreover, this legislature already wants to take substantial steps forward in this area, as it has just been confirmed. Hence my questions to the Ministers. How do you interpret the plans of the CD&V in the light of the current coalition agreement? Do you see these statements as an encouragement to this government to take action and to effectively speed up the preparation of a further state reform? Or do you see the statements about shifting to 2030 rather as the beginning of a further shift in the future? Those statements made me wonder whether all the parties of this government still support the timing set for the major state reform in 2024? I have just heard Mr Calvo say that everything the government proposes to do about Community and state reform is clear, but not yet the role of Parliament. I'm gonna have to argue with him anyway. That is not the case at all. There is no direction on state reform. We know that it is about Article 195, but it can be done in all directions. We do not know what direction this state reform is going to take. Even all the other Community matters contained in the coalition agreement have not been heard from me since. In addition to the list of constitutional articles that we have received with some delay, it is quite quiet as far as all the other Community parts of the coalition agreement are concerned. That is why I have a number of additional questions on this subject. In the Community part of the coalition agreement, the government is committed to identifying additional representatives of the Länder in the federal administration and administration bodies. To this end, in January 2021, both ministers addressed a letter to their colleagues to identify the cases in which this is possible in their policy areas. We are now six months later, so I would have liked to hear from you about the state of play in this dossier. Which of your colleagues have already given you answers? To what extent are the Länder always involved? To what extent does the Lander's wishes have been addressed or not? In which administrative and administrative bodies do these additional representatives be considered possible? Are initiatives already envisaged in this area? Can you give us a time frame for that? Mr Loones also referred to the asymmetrical powers contained in the Community part of the coalition agreement. The government has committed itself in the coalition agreement to examine the extent to which it can apply its policy asymmetrically to the needs of the Länder. Here, too, in January, the two ministers addressed a letter to their colleagues to examine the cases in which, in their policy areas, an asymmetric exercise of their powers is possible in order to meet the wishes of the Länder. For this part of the coalition agreement, too, I would have liked to have had a state of affairs. Can you tell us which colleagues have already replied and to what extent the Länder have always been involved? What was the content of those answers about the asymmetric governance? Have any initiatives been announced yet? What's the timeline for that? Another part of the coalition agreement, the only concrete commitment in the coalition agreement, relates to health care. I too, like Mr Loones, read Le Soir with great interest on 8 March. It makes it clear that this government would be fully engaged in the preparation of institutional reforms in this area. You know that this government does not have a two-thirds majority in the Chamber and Senate, nor does it have a majority in the Dutch language group. However, this is an essential condition for carrying out these fundamental reforms, including in the areas of health care and financing. The hearings in the Flemish Parliament on the health sector in the Committee on Institutional Reforms have been concluded. There is a very broad consensus among the experts to say that it is absolutely necessary to bring the whole of health care to a single level of competence. There is also a very broad consensus among those experts to say that there is only one possibility of this, namely that it should be transferred to the Länder. They also agree almost unisono that much of this funding should also be transferred to the Länder. Despite this very clear analysis and the clear commitment to the coalition agreement, I am very concerned at this point when I hear colleagues from the majority at every hearing in the special committee on the fight against the COOVID-19 pandemic repeatedly argue about the re-federalisation of health care. In Le Soir of 8 March, I read that the majority parties are negotiating these institutional reforms in relation to health care. Is that right? Does that happen by the Cabinets or at a higher level? Could you clarify that a little bit? Can you outline the framework for these negotiations, both in terms of content and in terms of financing? Is there a schedule yet? Does the government intend to include the opposition parties in those negotiations, as the implementation requires that particular majority? At the beginning of February, I asked a question about the order of protocol, which was finally placed on the agenda for today. You know that there is a list of priority rules for dignitaries on various issues. Since the sixth state reform, that list has been considerably out of date. A number of functions no longer exist or are no longer adapted to institutional evolution. The previous government had committed itself to adjusting this protocol order and giving the Länder a more important role. At the time, I regularly asked the Minister responsible about a state of affairs. But then Minister Jambon failed to adapt it. At some point, the Prime Minister drew that dossier and I regularly started asking Mr Michel about a state of affairs. However, he too has not been able to make a dent in that small symbol file and it has still not been resolved. Given that the dossier was with the Prime Minister at the end of the previous legislature, I also took the present Prime Minister at the beginning of this year, but apparently that file is now back with the Minister of the Interior, since the Prime Minister has referred me to Minister Verlinden on this matter. Hence my specific question to you, Minister, whether you are taking an initiative to get this dossier back on track? It is not because it is not in the coalition agreement that no solution should be found and that it should not be changed because it is outdated. Will you take that up? If so, what can we expect from you in that regard? Can you explain the problems in that file? Despite the many questions I put to Minister Jambon and then Prime Minister Michel in the previous legislature, I have never been made clear what these problems are. Perhaps you already have an idea of this and can tell us how you intend to solve it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic512x.u18	Minister, Minister, I would like to begin by thanking you for your presentation on the status of your work and for the decisions your government has taken on April 30, as well as for the prospect of an interdepartmental conference on July 5. I will remember from your presentation the presence of a scientific committee that will accompany the whole process. The impact that will be given to the communication is an essential aspect to better inform and involve the citizen. The structuring of citizen participation through the dialogue platform is very important and I see that you have paid particular attention to it. As a result, you have indicated that the whole process must be presented to citizens and that the question of method must be answered in advance. As to what will happen to the answers, the contributions of the citizens and the reports, it seems to me fundamental that there should be no misunderstandings which could be a source of frustration, which would lead to the failure of this process, even though it was intended. We will remain attentive and your partner during this work that has just begun.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic512x.u19	Madam President, I would like to express our thoughts. I have heard some colleagues, including Mrs Pas, say that the implementation of a state reform under Article 195 is not housebroken. I also heard the term improper use. That is a difference from five or six years ago, because the legitimacy of this method is no longer questioned. Mrs Pas, I have heard you say that it was not housebroken, you did not talk about illegality.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic512x.u20	Mr Verherstraeten, I referred to all the legal objections and comments that were raised at the time and which still exist today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic512x.u21	As far as I'm concerned, they don't exist anymore. If we want to take these initiatives in a society like this today, there will always be lawyers who have arguments to prove that they are right or wrong. The latter may be more the case than the former. The reality is, however, that an important legal body has already expressed its views on this matter. We chose this method in 2012, when we temporarily opened up Article 195 with a transitional provision to close it after the state reform. This was done with a view to achieving that state reform. We did not do this secretly, because during the preparatory debates of the pre-constituent it was explicitly said that this was an opportunity, both by Dutch speakers and by French speakers. That debate was important, because the members of the N-VA will no doubt remember that they were the ones who initiated proceedings with the Venice Commission of the Council of Europe, i.e. the European Commission for Democracy by Law. It has assessed the technique we used at the time and has said that we can change other constitutional articles with this technique within a single session procedure, with a view to achieving the objective. That objective was then state reform and is now also state reform. I refer to the letter from the government to the Court concerning the provisional list of pre-constituent persons and the motivating part of them, not only the mention of the articles but also their objective. The aim of 195 is to achieve a new state structure from 2024, with a view to homogeneous packages of competence and efficiency and with the aim of strengthening the Länder in autonomy and increasing the capacity of the federal government. The Venice Commission then said that this technique was in line with our Constitution. However, that is not enough; there is an Eastern European country where this is also done in accordance with the local constitution. However, it was also in line with international standards on democracy. That was also, she judged, in line with the rule of law as developed in a European perspective. In other words, this has been assessed by a legal authority. This is correct use. Mr Loones, you are concerned about the fact that this provisional list would go further. In fact, I can only refer to the coalition agreement. In that sense, I fully agree with what Mr Calvo said. I quote from the coalition agreement: 'This list includes at least Article 195. At the end of the democratic debate, the list will be supplemented by the articles necessary to translate the guiding recommendations." Next, the coalition agreement refers in particular to democratic renewal and the division of powers. We will therefore add articles on democratic renewal and division of powers, but of course only after the debate with citizens, civil society and academics has taken place. That seems logical to me, and is simply stated in the coalition agreement approved by the seven majority parties. I hope you can reassure me. The government correctly executes the mandate assigned to it in the government agreement, namely the online platform. In addition, it will have to prepare legislative texts on the division of powers, financing and institutions. Before such legislative texts can be prepared, the democratic debate will naturally take place. It is important that this debate starts quickly. I agree with Mr Calvo that we need to make progress on this. This presupposes, inter alia, that the Rules of Procedure are amended. I also fully agree with Mr Calvo that the debate should focus on representative democracy and the electoral system. The issues that directly concern citizens are in this. There is therefore no contradiction in this respect and I suggest that we get to work as quickly as possible. It is also logical that we should be able to continue the Dialogue Platform on democratic renewal. With regard to the state structure, we need to move faster to allow the government to prepare legislative texts. So I agree with the ambitions of the two ministers. One small comment from our group. It is important, in addition to the Parliament, the Chamber and the Senate to which Land MPs belong, to involve the Communities and the Regions in this process. In this way, the process can be further developed and prepared with the greatest possible support.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic512x.u22	Minister, Minister, thank you for your presentation. You've already answered a lot of questions. The reform of the State is a broad subject and I think it is difficult to concentrate on one aspect or the other, especially since we find ourselves talking about the substance here when there is a crucial step before we get to that point. As you pointed out, the government agreement provides for the establishment of this dialogue platform. It must be said that this participatory process is unique. It deserves to be stressed and requires unwavering preparation and commitment to true follow-up with those who will be involved in the process. Chronologically, this is first of all what we need to look at now. I think it's urgent. As has been said, this process should start after the holidays and end in early 2022. So we have three or four months left for everything to be ready. It therefore requires that we have specific themes and architecture. You've already quoted them. There are many of them. As Mr Loones himself said, it is ambitious and we welcome it. But more than that, I think that there is no point in providing for an additional area of freedom where citizens could speak on topics that might not have been taken up. Perhaps this could lead us to amazing and innovative results on points that we might not have thought of. There are indeed more ideas in the minds of 11 million people than in the minds of a few. Is such a space envisaged on this platform? You mentioned the selected providers and I understand that your choice was MyOpinion, which is also used by the House for petitions that citizens can introduce. Thank you for this information, but I would just like to draw your attention to the fact that the House's petition site is itself in the evaluation phase because many difficulties have arisen. It is not always obvious to move on the site. We find that many people end up giving up because the process is too complicated and they face many technical mistakes. I really think that it would be interesting to see the results of this evaluation in order to avoid that this is also the case for the platform and that the citizens give up participating in it for purely technical reasons. It is already not obvious to involve people on topics that seem very often complicated, sometimes unnecessarily complicated. This participation should be facilitated as much as possible, particularly to those who are not used to giving their opinion or even requested, with technical assistance made available to citizens or communication work on the ground. Beyond technical issues, there is a need for simplification and pedagogy. This work needs to be done proactively, but possibly a FAQ system on the most complicated issues. We will all have to make an important commitment: citizens, even those who have not, must be assured that their views will be taken into account. The worst thing would be that nothing would be removed from this participation. I am thinking of the experience that I would call a disaster at the French level of the citizens' convention for the climate, where the substance was discarded in favour of the political interests of the government. That would be totally counterproductive to the democracy and credibility of all of us. It is also the role of the House in this second part, and it is not a small role. I know that there is a willingness to make this second stage an equally ambitious and serious project, in which I hope to see all members of the House enthusiastically engage. As far as democratic renewal is concerned, my colleague Calvo has expressed the need to start work in Parliament in an innovative and participatory way. I'm not going to go into the matter and I'm going to agree with him.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic512x.u23	I will give the floor to the ministers, who are eager to answer you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic512x.u24	I will answer some of the questions that have been asked. I will try not to retake it, given the advanced hour, and give some additional elements. As has already been said by Mr Verherstraeten on the revision statement, that list is a provisional list and can be supplemented on the basis of the debates in any forum within the Dialogue Platform that will take place. For obvious reasons, we will not publish that list now. This will be done at the end of the legislature when the list is final and, if necessary, supplemented. In both Mr Loones' speech and Mrs Pas' speech, I heard the remark that it is a limited list. This is a somewhat misrepresentation of the facts, firstly because Article 195 of the Constitution allows us to keep in mind a new state structure, while respecting the principles of subsidiarity and interpersonal solidarity, as set out in the government agreement. The government's ambition to prepare this new state structure has not changed. It does not necessarily depend on the number of articles in the provisional list, but also on what we can do with them and the existing intentions. Of course, we do not want to take the lead in the debate. The list will be completed. It would be wrong to conclude on the basis of the number of articles today that the government's ambition would not be great to make our state or state structure modern and efficient effectively, with due regard for all articles. Mr Loones, Mrs Pas, in addition to what Mr Clarinval has said about Rule 195, which I support, you had another question about the structure from 2024 onwards. We all know that a state reform has not been pronounced immediately into all the details. This is also the reason why no reflection is made to indicate that all provisions can enter into force from 2024 onwards. You know 2024 is an election year. After that, a government will have to be formed and there will be a new constituent. Above all, it is realistic to see things in this way. Once again, however, I would like to stress that this does not undermine the ambition to move the country towards a state structure that allows for a quality of service for all citizens, residents and visitors. That's exactly the ambition. The fact that others have already spoken about 2030 should be seen in the light of the 200th anniversary of our country, which is a symbolic date to bear in mind. However, you already have my promise that we will work hard in the meantime to make this possible. As far as the question of timing is concerned, we, the current constituent, cannot, of course, bind the next constituent. We will do our utmost to explain the articles that are needed to be revised in the next legislature. That will depend on the debates we are having and which will be able to complement the current list. That is the intention. A number of questions were on the same subject, namely the limited list and the plans by 2024. Mr Loones, you asked about other articles that might have been on the table. As Mr Clarinval said just now, there has of course been a debate. The most important thing, however, is that the list that exists today is the list on which there is consensus. Of course, the list can be supplemented and the government will not fail to consider it further. An example of this is Article 7a of the Constitution, for which a review may also be envisaged. The article may appear on the list if necessary. You also said that there would be a number of articles missing. I can only repeat that it is a minimum list. The other articles can be added. After the follow-up steps, which we will now continue with the Dialogue Platform, we will be able to supplement that list. As far as timing is concerned, it's about the known timing. Now we have the explanatory notes to the provisional list. Then the Dialogue Platform will begin. For the sake of clarity, it is indeed the intention of the government initiative to launch the online platform as part of the entire Dialogue Platform. That is certainly not the end of the debates and dialogues. It'll be part of it. We want to move forward, of course. Hence the idea of launching the online platform and giving it a certain duration, so that we can seriously analyse and process the results. As Mr Clarinval clarified, we will also do so by means of artificial intelligence. A number of debates in the Chamber will then be possible with draw mixed panels. Because we know that it is a technical and complex debate, we want to move forward with the exercise on state reform, so that we can continue the debate from there and thus make preparations for 2024. As far as the involvement of the Länder is concerned, I mentioned earlier in the explanatory statement that the government has decided to convene the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Institutional Reforms. The main aim is to exchange information between the federal government and the Länder in order to prepare it properly. We know that there is a lot of knowledge and expertise in the government, especially in the public administration, some of which have already produced thematic data on bottlenecks and concerns in the current division of powers. We will also ask for bottlenecks sheets or thematic sheets to be further supplemented, so that all administrations and federal and sub-state administrations are involved in the process and we can carry out the analysis. We can build on that. It would be strange, after all, to throw away the experience, expertise and analyses that they have already made. I have already referred to the administrative interfederal task force. Of course, the members of the Land Parliaments will also be invited to provide input. In this way, the involvement of the Länder is indeed foreseen. The kick-off, if I may call it that, will be given on July 5 or 6, so very soon. We can build on that and that commitment can take shape. In addition to what my colleague Clarinval said, for the Dialogue Platform, we will be accompanied, in addition to the expertise that is present at the FOD BOSA. That is wise, because it is a large task, with various elements, of which you have mentioned a number. There is not only the content and manner of questioning, but also neutrality and the ability to reach everyone. This is not only done by means of communication or language, but also by asking a question on which people from different backgrounds can answer. So that is very important. That is also why we have decided to do so in guidance, with the support of private players, who have experience in it. These public procurement contracts are being prepared and launched. We do not have to hide from you that this takes some time. We must do this thoroughly. The specifications must be drawn up. In any case, work is being carried out on this subject, which is being prepared for the CSFs, as well as that question. It also ensures, for example, that the use of artificial intelligence is included. It would be crazy not to bring artificial intelligence, but it certainly shouldn't be filtered. It was suggested earlier that certain points of view might not be addressed. I do not know where this suspicion or thought arose, because that is obviously not the intention. The aim is only to be able to process and take on board the information collected as soon as possible in a further phase of the Dialogue Platform and in the preparation of the decision-making process. In doing so, we want to use the most modern means of doing such a survey. I do not want to call it a poll, because that could be interpreted restrictively. However, a broad survey should be the intention. Mrs Pas, you said that the communication plan is also important and asked if there is any expertise on communication within the Scientific Committee. I can answer that in the affirmative. There are people with a communication background who have already supervised or advised similar pathways. Marie Dufrasne is a communication expert and she will also provide input from the scientific committee in this process to think about the communication strategy. After all, it is quite right to think that we must ensure that the neutrality and involvement of as many target groups as possible can be guaranteed. When we appointed the Scientific Committee, we ensured that this was done at the level and quality level. That is the intention. As far as the cost is concerned, we know that for this exercise and certainly for the guidance we are looking for, the budget is needed. The Council of Ministers has already taken a decision on this. We will also have to provide an additional budget for communication. We must strike a good balance in this: on the one hand, we must provide resources without resources; on the other hand, we cannot organize the work in a serious way; on the other hand, of course, this is not the end of the exercise; on the other hand, we must use the resources to make the maximum possible. Based on the information we have today, however, we are on track and should succeed with the budgets we now have, also on the basis of the experiences of the FOD BOSA and the advice he has given on this. Mr Calvo, you said that Parliament received homework from the government. That's right. In your speech, Mrs Pas, there has sometimes been some confusion about what is being done by the government and what can be done by Parliament. The government organises the online survey and will, of course, remain involved, including in the Joint Parliamentary Committee. We are also looking forward to learning and attending the analyses, but it will be up to the Chamber to look at how it will organise deliberative processes such as mixed panels, civilian panels, lottery tickets. I think that this division of tasks is as it should be, with the involvement of Parliament. Mrs Pas, you had questions about the topics that would be discussed and the lines of questioning. On this subject, I can say today that the themes and details that will be addressed in the survey will be specified and developed in cooperation with the Scientific Committee. Mr Clarinval has already explained the main thrust of this. It is important to choose these themes properly. On the one hand, they have to offer perspective. They must be open issues so that citizens and participants can make their recommendations. On the other hand, it must also be intelligible and the issues must be close to the citizens. A good involvement in such a survey requires some background, because it is often about technical issues. That's a balancing exercise we're going to have to make. There will certainly be issues such as the renewal of basic principles, the Belgian state structure, the strengthening of democracy, the modernisation of fundamental rights. The themes to which you referred, mechanisms of solidarity, funding and accountability, will also be addressed. The way in which this will be done and the way in which these questions will be asked are still the subject of the preparations, but it is the intention to take that with us. I have already said something about representativeness and involvement. Mr Loones, you also referred to it. We need to get the participation rate as high as possible. I think the FOD BOSA has already built up experience in this, but in the public procurement we issue, the aim will be to achieve that balanced participation. That is why this communication strategy and the action plan are so important for this project. I myself am thinking of a number of things: campaigns on social networks, other media that can be used for this purpose, certain targeted campaigns for young people. I assume that there are other experts who have much more to say about this. I have just said that it is certainly not the intention to ignore certain things or not to include certain input. We would not take ourselves seriously if we were to say that we are doing a questioning, but then finally abandon certain input in the analysis, but I think you will be there to remind us of that. We want to get a cross section and that starts with participation and then with the analysis. We've already talked about the timeline. It was also about reporting and displaying those results. Here too, it is intended to draw up a report which may be communicated to the Court. What will be the methodology for analysing that input still needs to be worked out. That will of course depend on the process and methodology of the survey itself, with open or closed questions, giving scores... I do not think it is intended to get a purely mathematical report on what percentage of which target group gives which answer. We want a more qualitative analysis. We will have to use smart artificial intelligence for that, but I have every confidence that the parties will be able to guide us in that. As regards the timing of the Dialogue Platform, this was reflected in the questions put by Mr Loones, Mrs Pas and Mr Calvo. The Swiss model is a model. Who knows, many will talk about it in the interview. That might be possible, but as I have always said, we should not speak out on this today. Mr Clarinval also said just now that it is up to us to facilitate and to ensure that we can receive as many opinions as possible. It is not up to us to rule on certain models. I was surprised by your analysis that the Swiss model is actually 2 + 2. I do not know if it can be proposed that easily, but we shall look into that. There were also questions about health care and the article in question in Le Soir. As far as we are concerned, we need to be careful not to interpret passages incompletely or misinterpreted, which often happens in newspaper articles. Work has started within the government on everything related to state reform and preparation of the online platform. In doing so, we have always set out the principle that we look at homogeneous packages of competence. However, it is not the case that negotiations on the homogenisation of health care within the government would have started. If that article had given us that impression, then we need to make it clear here. Of course, we want to achieve a homogeneous division of powers, but these negotiations have yet to begin. It seems obvious to me, moreover, that they will be accompanied by a debate on funding. We cannot talk about homogeneous powers if we do not also talk about the transfer of funds and the rules on financing, with solidarity in funding always being set out, which will also be retained in this area. We will also have to discuss this with the relevant Länder ministers. The chips for that will certainly reach us, because of course we are also looking in that direction. There were also questions about the asymmetric policy and the additional representation in the sub-state bodies. The coalition agreement effectively provides for the possibility of developing that asymmetric policy. It will not surprise you, although you may find it insufficient in your answer, that we are addressing the relevant ministers, not only at federal level but also at the level of the Member States, to take initiatives and consult. We kindly asked them to take initiatives at the beginning of this year. We will, of course, follow that up, but it is not up to me to act like a mother-in-law to those ministers right now. The possibility is there and we invited them. You are, of course, free to continue to question these ministers in order to get a state of affairs. For the representatives of the federal administrative or management bodies, we have also asked to consider whether better synergy can be ensured. We'll keep following that up. There too, the relevant ministers will be able to deal with this. Flemish Minister for Work Crevits replied to a parliamentary question in the Flemish Parliament on 2 June. It referred to the possibilities or desirability of an asymmetric labour market policy. So it is certainly not that nothing moves and that no one has read our invitation. It is therefore being pursued, and that seems to me to be the way forward in the spirit of federalism for cooperation and for the necessary agreements to be made. Mr Loones asks me if we are involved in the Joint Parliamentary Committee. As far as I'm concerned, yes. We were asking for it ourselves. However, I cannot tell you to what extent I will be personally present. It seems to me that the policy cells of the two Cabinets should be involved in that committee. How the communication will happen, we will look at but the more we think about this together, the faster we can move forward. So it seems obvious to me that we will do so. You may want to know how many people in our policy cells and Cabinets are looking at the state reform. I do not think the number of people is decisive, but the fact that they are competent. I do not want to limit the debate to figures. I can reassure you that the matter is being dealt with with with a great deal of attention and priority. The exercise is also made at Flemish level. So the forces can be bundled. So I can say with complete confidence that we have sufficient expertise to guide and follow up these processes. A final question, which has indeed come back a number of times, but not necessarily in the light of state reform or democratic renewal, is that of protocol order. In 2015, the Minister of the Interior effectively decided to set up a working group to adapt the federal priority list, taking into account institutional evolution. This led to a new priority list in April 2016, including updating titles and degrees. No substantive changes were submitted to the Council of Ministers by Minister Jambon. I think I can tell you in all transparency that this dossier is not a priority for me. It is not in itself included in the coalition agreement, but we are following developments closely, as always. If there were absolute needs, we would not fail to think about them, but we do not have any agreements in the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic512x.u25	Merci, Monsieur Clarinval, pour nous répondre en français. Thank you, Mrs Verlinden, for answering us in Dutch. Well, that's nice confetti, so as far as I'm concerned, it should stay that way. It has been said a number of times that the government does homework for Parliament. We shouldn't use that word. Parliament, of course, determines the work and the government is the executive. However, I suspect no evil intention in the use of words. Mr Clarinval, Mrs Verlinden, Mr Verherstraeten, thank you for confirming that Article 195 is not only on the list now, but will also remain on it. Both the MR and the CD&V confirmed that very clearly today. I have heard something else in Mr Aouasti's intervention. He seemed to be insinuating something else. At least the government is clear. Mr Clarinval, thank you for pointing out that the note on the Dialogue Platform, which was delivered to the Council of Ministers, can be forwarded to Parliament. That's where the answers should be. Thank you, Mrs Verlinden, I understand from your answers that you are sensitive to the fact that questions need to be asked in sufficient detail so that people understand them and that they are also attracted to external expertise. However, we need to go a little deeper into artificial intelligence. It was just said in Minister Clarinval's reply that les paroles non-normées would not be included. The question is what to mean by that. In this committee, I propose that we devote a specific session to the functioning of artificial intelligence in the framework of the Dialogue Platform, with a presentation and a note from the Scientific Committee or the external experts accompanying it. That it is shown in a transparent way how this can work in concrete cases. That's homework for ourselves. It is important to do this from the start, so that the people who participate in that Dialogue Platform know what will happen to their answers. This will also increase the participation rate. Mr Clarinval, you have four full-time and two half-time staff in your cabinet who are specifically working on the institutional part. That's as many as all the other cabinets put together. Mrs Verlinden is right to say that it is not only about quantity but also about quality, but I am confident that there is also a great deal of quality in Minister Clarinval's cabinet. So I can only call for extra investment in that. Mrs Verlinden, as far as timing is concerned, I understand that you are working towards 2024. The question will be whether there is a political majority to achieve certain things. But you are talking about an 'operationalisation phase': by 2030, everything should be processed. The political momentum is indeed 2024 for you? At that time, there will be a political decision-making process and a number of choices will have to be made which will, by definition, have to be further developed in legislative and administrative terms. So the timing is 2024, at least that's what I understood. If that's wrong, I'd like to hear it. Without a counter-report, I assume that this is a correct reading. I could add a lot, but I'm going to skip a few points. I thank you for the Joint Committee on Chamber and Senate. You have said several times that you wish to attend these meetings, that you are looking forward to them and that you are asking to be involved in this very time-intensive exercise. I can only welcome that commitment. I would like to add something specific about the timing of the Dialogue Platform, because Mr Calvo seemed to suggest that I misunderstood. That is quite possible, but I have heard again in your answers today that you want to move forward, certainly with the institutional part. Mr Verherstraeten says that there is still a great deal of institutional work to be done and, given that a number of legislative texts need to be drawn up, we must give priority to the Dialogue Platform Part. I hear you say that we are addressing the Dialogue Platform part now, six weeks, so that we can draw some conclusions by the end of the year. Afterwards, it is possible to draw up sections with panels, for example. However, I do not hear you say that the Dialogue Platform will be re-used after the end of the year for the institutional. That is what I have always said and what you have also said to the policy paper, namely that the pure dialogue platform, which is open to institutional use, will only take place this year. Other pathways will then be launched, but the Dialogue Platform will no longer be used for this purpose. At least that is what I am making up again today from Mr Verherstraeten's assertions and from the answers you have given. Mrs Verlinden, I will conclude with two questions. Firstly, you indicated at a certain point that the administration is currently making thematic sheets, which identify a number of challenges. The question is simple. Can these chips be delivered to Parliament? When can we do that? Secondly, you say that the Council of Ministers would have taken a decision on the budget. I have already questioned Mrs De Bleeker on several occasions, and I have always had to answer that question. I am pleased now to hear confirmation that a budget has been allocated. On this point too, I would like to insist on transparency, so that we know exactly what that budget means and how it has been technically incorporated into the budget. There will be a budget meeting next week with Mrs De Bleeker. During that meeting, I will gladly defend your wish list. One final point before you concerns the asymmetry, which you say is not for you to interfere in the shop of other ministers. That is a point that we made at the very beginning of the present legislature, namely that this is difficult. You have a horizontal competence for everything, but you are not a hierarchical competence, and you are neither the Prime Minister, to the extent that a Prime Minister is, of course, a hierarchical competence. However, on this occasion, I would like to reiterate my appeal to the Prime Minister when you find that a number of issues are less focused than the coalition agreement seems to be insinuating. Those were my questions and concerns for the ministers. I can only conclude briefly with a word to the other Members. It won't surprise them. Mr Calvo, I could be naughty. You claim that we say a number of things and forget a number of points. It is true that we did not just agree to draw up the list of articles which are subject to revision at the beginning of the legislature. It is also right that we intended to prepare a large institutional round after two years of administration. I'm proud that this was our plan. I don't want to hide that in any way either. However, something you did not mention is a third point that was still there. We would not just lay down Article 195 and the list immediately. We wouldn't just be driving for two years. We would also rule with no more than ten ministers, so without Secretary of State but only with ten ministers. We wanted a narrow crew to manage the crisis. If I were naughty, I could say that we know why you prefer to go on for almost four years, that is because this government does not do it with ten ministers, but with twenty. I can imagine you'd enjoy those big cabinets. But that would be naughty and so I won't say that, because that's not the atmosphere. Mr Calvo, the atmosphere we want to create here is an atmosphere of cooperation and connection. And that will be necessary, because if you want to work towards special majorities, you will also have to look more broadly than your own government. It might be a tip in that respect. You seem to find it somewhat embarrassing to have to implement an N-VA proposal, namely the list of articles that are subject to revision since the beginning of the legislature. You could also put your mind to that, and then we could actually work together, in all respect and connection. Then I would like to respond to what Mr Verherstraeten said. I will also tell him myself tomorrow in the margins of the plenary sitting: I think he is right. The fact that we are working through article 195 is a much more validated technique this time than last time. One of the important elements of our criticism at the time was that it was simply out of the hat. It was a technique that was not presented transparently to the electorate. No, the government had just found a legal trick to carry out a state reform. What's happening now is a lot different. You're telling me you're gonna do it. You say to everyone that you will not use Article 195 in the actual way, but in a broader way, I will not even say in an improper way. You will also refer this to the electorate, who will be able to judge it in elections, as a pre-constituent. The constituent will then be able to work with that. That is a very positive note. In that letter which was also delivered to the Chamber, you say very transparently that Article 195 is included in the list and also motivates very transparently why it is included in the list. And both you, Madam Minister, and Minister Clarinval, have confirmed today that it is indeed a question of making a major institutional round possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic512x.u26	I will be brief, because I assume that we will still have opportunities to organise and follow up on new exchanges of views, but I have noted a number of remarkable things and I will certainly return to the questions to which I have not received any answers. Minister Verlinden does not consider the list of constitutional articles to be limited and Minister Clarinval points out that the government has chosen to work in different stages with a limited list first and so on. However, that does not explain why constitutional articles that you need to do what you committed yourself to in the coalition agreement are not on the list. In that case, the argument of the civil platform and the addition to it will not apply, because that commitment should not have been included in the coalition agreement. It is not clear to me why those articles were not added to the list from the beginning. What has been said very clearly by Minister Clarinval is that there are no B lists. There's no Atoma scrolls. They're gonna do it with that short list for the time being. The sacred cow is indeed Article 195. Contrary to what Mr Verherstraeten just said, I am glad that this article is on the mini-list, because it is the only article that allows for a change in the state structure. Indeed, it is not a rabbit that is being magical, because the government says transparently that it wants to use Article 195 for this, but I still do not think it is a good way to explain in advance what direction it is heading. That is something that can be made perfectly clear to the electorate with other articles in advance, but with Article 195 it can go either way. We have still not heard that direction from the government. I will not repeat what my colleague has already mentioned, because we will come back to that later. Madam Minister, I did have a specific question on the order of protocol. I understand very well that you say this is not a priority for you. It is true that a working group was set up in 2015. When I questioned Minister Jambon about this at the time, his first answer was that this would be okay against the defilé of 21 July. I still do not know what year he was talking about then, and at what edition of the defilé it would be okay and the places would reflect the greater role of the Länder. It's a symbolic file. It is about palpating the importance of the Länder on official matters. I understand that this is not a priority for you, but you are committed to cooperation federalism. I hope that 'no priority' is not a translation for a'shift to the Greek calendar' and that you do not take any initiative. At Flemish level, they want to do something about this. The Flemish government would like an adjustment for that. So I hope that there will be an initiative to change this. I will continue my six-year tradition and every year, in the run-up to the 21st of July, I will wrist the seats of the protocol.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic512x.u27	I'm gonna try to be very short. After all, I do not want to deprive the ministers of their desire to have regular exchanges of views with us. The number of Members of Parliament has also been somewhat reduced by the many committees. But some things still deserve an answer, I think. I also think I have a slightly greater freedom of speech than the ministers. As far as Mrs Pas' last part of her speech is concerned, until a few minutes ago I fully agreed with Minister Verlinden when she said that the order of precedence was not really a priority. But if the Flemish nationalists so strongly ask to sit in the front row on 21 July, perhaps we should make it a priority. I hear Mrs Pas begging here: 'Please give the Länder a greater role on the defilé. Put Flanders in the front of the tricolore holiday." We didn't write much history today, but that was almost historical. If the Flemish nationalists so strongly ask to get a better picture on the national holiday, then perhaps we should make it a priority. Mr Loones, you must show up. We'll have to make that deal. If it is to be made a priority and if the Länder become even more important in the order of protocol, then I suggest that the N-VA excellencies also engage themselves in advance. Often they make it a point to send their cat. Then I understand that Mrs Verlinden says: 'Sorry, but I certainly have other things to do in the period of a pandemic than to shift the order of precedence for ministers, to hear them send their cats'. They make a better chair, to hear: I can't finish. If it is still a priority, Mr Loones, Mrs Pas, then perhaps reconsider it, but with the agreement that Flemish excellence, flaming excellence, whose opinion I respect, understand that they must come down on 21 July, because at that time they represent not only N-VA and Flemish Interest, but also all Flemings. That's the first thing. Secondly, the matter of the cabinet members. We have also talked about democratic renewal. When we talk about cabinet members in this debate, Mr Loones, it should not be a plea for more cabinet members, but rather for less. The whole idea of measuring the involvement or commitment of a government or member of the government to the number of cabinet members active on this issue is a ridiculous parameter. I think it is just right that the two ministers should seek as much expertise as possible on these issues in the Länder, the administrations, the Senate, the chancery, the scientific committee, private partners. I think that's a very good way of working. In this respect, Mr Loones sounds a bit like an old socialist who says that there must be more public employment, more cabinet members, more equipment, because only then will a subject be dealt with seriously. Total crazy. Twice I've said, "Amai, special presentation." Thirdly, more seriously. There is really no contradiction between Mrs Verlinden and myself around the Dialogue Platform, the online platform, the duration. We say the same thing. Either you're of bad will or you really didn't understand. We say the same thing. There is a Dialogue Platform with different components: Parliament, thematic working groups, online platform. The online platform runs until the end of 2021. In addition, institutional work can also be carried out. It is true, and that is a concern that I believe the Minister has in the first place: let us not wait too long with the institutional, because otherwise nothing will come of it and we will not even have any preparation for 2024. We're saying the exact same thing. Maybe we have a slightly different sensitivity by nature, but by talking about it regularly, we have found a good balance between speed and an inclusive way of working. The same applies to Parliament's homework. Mrs Verlinden might be more careful next time to quote me or paraphrase me, because you will then take it. I have indeed said that there is homework for Parliament. We did not get that from Mrs Verlinden, as her explanation shows, but there is homework for Parliament and the committee. That brings me to the most important and serious point. Madam President, it would be a good thing if we were to make time for this in a future arrangement of work. We have homework and some of these assignments even require a change in the Rules of Procedure. I would therefore like to see a relatively short-term regulation of the work carried out in order to ensure that all this is properly coordinated. I made a proposal myself, but there are other possibilities. However, we need to clarify this fairly quickly, which will facilitate the work of the government. Madam Minister, Minister, it is important that we pay attention to the articulation, because we note that this is still causing misunderstandings. It could be said that quick and agile action is going to be taken to involve citizens in the institutional process, for example through civil panels. One could then choose to draw them from the participants of the online platform. That could be a piste. Perhaps that has drawbacks and the Scientific Committee has objections. This is a formula with 100 percent citizens, not the model of citizens and politicians. One could draw lots from the participants in the online platform, but that is, of course, to decide in advance. If the Chamber chooses that formula, it must be integrated into the preparation of the online platform. That is why active articulation is really important. It would be good to meet regularly, without, of course, exaggerating, to build in mutual reporting. I still have some doubts as to whether the members of the Scientific Committee should be involved, and we need to think again about this. The advantage is that it can hopefully strengthen the legitimacy of the exercise, the disadvantage is that its operation is politicised in this way. But perhaps the advantage is greater than the disadvantage. I do not think that a Presidency is currently foreseen within the Scientific Committee, perhaps we should ask them how they see it. However, discussions with the Scientific Committee at some point may improve the legitimacy of the exercise. This appointment and composition remains a government initiative, but perhaps it would be better if we had a public hearing with the members of the Scientific Committee, including Mr Loones' legitimate concerns. After all, I do not disagree with everything he has said. Perhaps it is better to include this with the members of the Scientific Committee, but that is only possible if they see it that way. I look forward to the continuation of our work and the revision of the protocol order.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic512x.u28	Mr Calvo, we are mature politicians enough to distinguish between the position we hold and the political beliefs we have. You may be surprised, but Minister Jambon was in the gallery when he was Minister of the Interior, as well as Secretary of Defense, Steven Vandeput. It may surprise you even more that I was present at the Te Deum and I was only Minister for four weeks. If you can reassure me, we are that grown-up. As far as the number of cabinet members is concerned, you can be laughing about it, but that does make sense. When a state reform had to be developed and operationalised in the previous legislature, Mr Verherstraeten had a whole cabinet to do everything. Today, Mrs Verlinden has a cabinet with 36 people, two of whom are working on institutional matters. They're excellent employees. I want to have said that very explicitly, but that is simply inexplicable. There used to be an entire cabinet to do that, and now the exercise is much wider. It is not just texts that need to be drawn up, we need to think about what we are going to do and the Dialogue Platform will be on top of that. It's just inhuman to ask. Finally, Madam Minister, I would like to put this question explicitly. I obviously didn't understand, but I'd like to understand. I would like to know exactly what and when this Dialogue Platform and the institutional will be used. I hear above all that it will be six weeks for the institutional and the Dialogue Platform and that a report will have to be drawn up by the end of the year. Afterwards there will be civil panels, for which people will apparently be drawn from those who have replied. That could all be good. I am not speaking about this, but I just want to know whether you will use that Dialogue Platform until 2024 for the institutional, or will it only be used in the first phase. I understand from your policy paper that that would only be this year. From what you have said today, I also think I understand that it would only be this year. However, this does not rule out the possibility of participatory projects taking place in another area. I am not going to say anything about that. I'm just asking what's going on with the Dialogue Platform.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic512x.u29	Mr Calvo clearly did not realize that my reference to Mr Jambon and the defilé was a teasing to him because he was always there. The N-VA behaved exemplary in the government. On King's Day I even received the invitation from Mr Bracke, Mr Vandeput and Mr Jambon. You don't have to worry about that at all. I am concerned about the fact that not only on tricolore defilés, but in all circumstances that protocol is being adapted. You made an interesting suggestion about the scientific committee and the designation of a chairman. I did not so quickly list all the names of the people who are members of the Scientific Committee, which Mr Clarinval just mentioned. However, I have just expressed my concern about representativeness. Is this committee a joint committee? Does that reflect the exact proportions in this country, 60/40, or is that from the outset already a scientific committee that is composed of a joint committee?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic512x.u30	There are five Dutch-speaking and five French-speaking.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic512x.u31	Do other people still want to intervene?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic512x.u32	Madam President, I would like to return to something I have already said, but I would like to say it again with a great deal of friendship. That is not a problem, Mr Loones. The Dialogue Platform involves several things, both for the Institutional Reforms section and for the Democratic Renewal section. We start with the online platform for both shutters. In addition, there are thematic working groups and consultations with parliamentary representatives, the Länder and the thematic working groups. It's all part of the Dialogue Platform. We said we'd like to continue the online search. We would like to know the results of this online survey by the end of this or the beginning of next year. The timing will also depend on the public procurement that we still have to launch. Of course, following the online platform, the debate will also continue with the thematic working groups, the representatives of local authorities and the Land Parliaments. We need to distinguish between the Dialogue Platform, which is the dome, and the online survey, which we want to complete.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic512x.u33	Now it's clear to me. It concerns the definition of the term Dialogue Platform. I did not understand that you mean everything, but I do understand very well that the online section of the survey is only being set up now and not anymore, unless people change their minds. In principle, that is not the case.
