ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic383x.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, welcome to our committee meeting with oral questions, two topical debates and interplays. The Rules of Procedure require that interviews should be dealt with two weeks after approval. I propose that we hold these interviews after the topical debates, because that two-week period has expired.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic383x.u2	Madam Secretary, since 4 January, the wave Human Capital Management, HRM@Defence, has started. The purpose of this new computer system is to promote, facilitate and even automate the management and integration of administrative data and related financial, wage-related data. In the meantime, it has been found that the system is suffering from a number of shortcomings and difficulties. Security issues are reported, problems with data that have been misdirected from the applications, miscalculations, administrative situations that would not be correct, errors in betting and allowances, etc. Due to the defects, the first payout of the performance, which is normally due on 15 January, was not carried out. I think it is fair to say that a catch-up has taken place in the meantime. I hope you can confirm that, but there are still reports of shortcomings in the system as such. I would like to ask you a number of questions about this. What's the basis of the flaws? Was a thorough training and testing phase of the new system foreseen in advance? Did similar problems come to light back then? What was the outcome of the possible initial evaluation of the system? Is it true that, for the January wages or allowances, the old system has again been called upon and has therefore had to hand in everything, which, of course, leads to the necessary delay? How many files are we dealing with in concrete terms? Staff faced with financial difficulties were asked to send an e-mail to a specific address, which allowed a direct payment to be made. Were such e-mails received? How much? In how many cases has a direct payment to be made? By when will the files and related payments be fully in order?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic383x.u3	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, I tabled and then transformed my question fifteen days ago to facilitate the work of the commission. Now, as a debate is about to take place, there is no chance: I am putting it back on! Minister, how big is the problem with HRM@Defence? Could it have been resolved in the meantime? Can you guarantee that all individual situations will be regularized, and within what time frame? Can you assure us that no staff member will be injured after this difficult start-up? Will reimbursements be required from certain staff members? Have all operators received adequate training and equipment to use the program? Have any preparatory tests been carried out for the changeover of the system? Have they proved to be positive? Finally, are further phases of HRM@Defence planned in the coming years?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic383x.u4	Mr President, much has already been said, I will not repeat everything. At the beginning of January there was the launch. Immediately afterwards there were problems and there was a very fierce reaction from the Defense Department. To what extent are the problems, which seem to persist, the same as the problems that were initially addressed? Are they new problems? Do you find problems that reappear and itinerary the route? Secondly, how does the follow-up take place? Is the software developer still closely involved? I hear the Department of Defense is working very hard on the follow-up to the problems. To what extent is this done with or even by the developer? Finally, what is the total cost of the new system? Is that extra follow-up contained in it?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic383x.u5	Thank you, goedemorgen, good morning to all of you. Mrs Ponthier, various reasons were at the root of the shortcomings: the transfer of data between the old and the new system, the incorrect input of data by some operators and some technical bugs of the system itself. More than 400 people were followed. The long test phase gave a good result. A little less than 2 % of the staff were not paid in an automatic manner. They received a postcard. For about 350 persons a manual deposit of the bet was made to their account. A total of 74 e-mails were sent to the specific address for disputes, all of which were handled. The aim is to regularise by the end of March. If the system does not find an account number, a postcard will automatically be created so that the payment can be made. All of the Defense personnel will always get what they're entitled to. The application of Defense is not directly accessible via the internet, but only via a CDN computer or via the fashion portal after authentication. So the defense is not vulnerable to the (...). All staff have received their wages, no later than the last working day of January. The problems have been mapped out. They're working on it with the firm. A similar situation should not arise at the end of March. At the end of 2012, the project was launched with the aim of having a software for the management and administration of the staff and to achieve far-reaching digitalization and automation. The previous systems were developed by Defence personnel and could no longer be supported. The task of developing the new system was achieved following a negotiated procedure with publication. To date, 33 million euros have been paid for the purchase and further development of the RP software, the update, maintenance and training of staff. Other government services, such as the FOD BoSa and the Flemish government, also use one or more modules PeopleSoft. Mr. Defosse, 350 people have been affected by the failures of the new system. Every effort was made to ensure that salaries were paid properly at the end of the month and to minimize the inconveniences that would be felt by staff. The department had created a line of communication between the staff concerned and the managers of the file in order to answer the questions. I can assure you that every irregularity will be rectified, including any repayments. The persons concerned will be contacted in writing. More than 400 operators with the necessary equipment have been trained and new training sessions are regularly organised on specific topics in order to help end users as much as possible. Prior to production, tests were carried out in close cooperation with the contractor for a period of nine months. At the end of this test, there were only a small number of anomalies and a positive opinion was given to move on to the production of the new information system. There will naturally be scalable maintenance to, for example, improve certain features. In the long term, it is planned to integrate other Defence applications that manage specific individual data. Mr Pillen, some problems have not yet been solved. It mainly concerns the payment of the allowances. These problems were not present during the test phase. The follow-up is done by Defense in close consultation with the firm and is included in the price, unless an adjustment to the system has to be made via a change request. That has not yet been the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic383x.u6	Madam Minister, thank you for your comprehensive answer, which you have listed a number of concrete things. As far as the package as such is concerned, a number of things do the eyebrows frown. You say that there has been extensive testing and that there has been a lot of research on where to adjust. Good results could also be presented. However, we now see practical problems emerging which we believe are among the standard capacities of such a package. Outsourcing is not entirely blissful, if we look at this file. As far as the deadline for a solution is concerned, I assume that at the moment, the Defence Department is making every effort to deliver the files in good condition, so that the military are properly rewarded. The deadline is three months. I don't know the terms of the firm that supplied you with this package. We also have experiences from abroad, more specifically from the Netherlands. That's where the Department of Defense rejected this contract. At that time Belgium bought it. I find that at least a very strange decision, with all the consequences. I would therefore ask you to evaluate this purchase, which is going on for four years. Normally, the contract will be over in a year. Please evaluate this thoroughly before you allow the extension to continue automatically. We know from experience that, as soon as the extension is silently allowed, the price increase and the other defects will only come to light. I really want to warn and insist on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic383x.u7	Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive answers. I hear the Defence has taken things in their own hands, which reassures me. As I understand it, relatively few people have been affected, about 2%. I hope that everything will get back to order as soon as possible and that no one will finally be harmed. I trust you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic383x.u8	Madam Secretary, thank you for your detailed reply. Unfortunately, I have not been able to hear everything, so I will be reading the report thoroughly later. I did hear what you said at the last. It is important to know what is included in the price. That firm can't just deliver something that still has a lot of childhood diseases and then get the DOD to pay extra. Mrs Ponthier, you are absolutely right. This needs to be evaluated very thoroughly. I found the reaction of Defence very harsh at first, also with regard to the military, who were angry and who have expressed their anger at social media. It may not have been the best way to do that, but I think we should understand. This matter really needs to be tackled as a matter of priority.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic383x.u9	Mr President, Minister, I would like to question you about the NATO Defence Ministers meeting. I understand that there would be a NATO summit before the summer. You've been there for two days. I have followed the debates as far as public debates are concerned. A number of discussions were, of course, behind closed doors, which is justified. It is an important period for NATO. We have been through a great deal over the last two years: fundamental questions were asked about the unilateral action by President Trump and his administration on the withdrawal of troops in Afghanistan, but also on the unilateral invasion of Turkey in northern Syria. This has led President Macron to make the shocking statement "NATO is brain dead," which has ensured that a NATO 2030 strategy has been drawn up with a number of experts, including German ex-Minister Thomas de Maizière as penholder, looking at where the story is to go. That's what we've been talking about, and a report has been produced. You sat at the table last week with the fellow ministers. So one of the points is where NATO is going as a political organisation, because of course it is also for a piece. NATO is a military alliance, but of course we also share certain values and values, and so we are also a political community, even if that does not always seem to be the case, because there is a lot of discussion. I have a few questions on this, Madam Secretary. What are the recommendations that our country made in the Stoltenberg proposals? What is the government's position, for example, on reducing the possibility of blocking by one Member State and more mediation powers for the Secretary-General? One of the proposals is to remove the blocking minority. Of course, that is something very important, but there are some opponents of that. France, among other things, has won less. What is the government's view of the new financing scheme? Would it be positive or negative for the Belgian efforts? It is then about the financing arrangement in which more operations would be shared, so that there would be a greater balance between the countries that contribute to the military and those that do not. In that case, the latter should make a financial contribution. A summit in Brussels later this year should convince the new US government to strongly support NATO and convince frustrated allies that the alliance will correct its shortcomings at political level. Do you think that the Stoltenberg plan meets this or will our country make additional demands before the summit? There was also a meeting devoted to the future of the NATO training mission Resolute Support in Afghanistan, which I have a question about in a moment. The Taliban's truce is based on a departure on 1 May, but the underlying conditions are still not met, and the peace talks are stuck. Was our country asked to extend its contribution? If so, what was the answer? Finally, it was said in the news that it would be decided that NATO's training mission would be increased in Iraq from 500 to 5,000 men. Is there anything expected of us there? Our F-16s are there now, normally until September. Are we also expected to do something there after September? If so, what? What's our answer?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic383x.u10	Mr President, Madam Minister, it seemed interesting to me to take a comprehensive look at this summit. I did not want to separate the subjects and, to say the least, it seems to me that the following questions on Afghanistan will overlap with mine. I therefore propose to remove the part relating to Afghanistan from my questions so that we do not repeat the same thing twice. On February 17 and 18, a meeting of NATO Defence Ministers was held. At least four topics were discussed: the NATO 2030 initiative, burden sharing and missions in Afghanistan and Iraq. These themes have a significant impact on our Defence, diplomacy and strategic positioning internationally. We had the statement of the Secretary General of NATO at the end of the meeting with some proposals made to the allies. Minister, could you take stock of these three issues, apart from Afghanistan? What was Belgium's position? Are the final proposals satisfactory to you? What would be the financial and geopolitical impact of the Secretary-General's proposals for Defence and Belgium? What were the blocking points and with which partners?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic383x.u11	Mr President, Minister, I have largely the same questions as the previous speakers. I mentioned the NATO summit in my question, but a few days before that NATO summit, on 11 February, you also had a bilateral meeting with the Secretary-General. Madam Secretary, what exactly did you discuss at that meeting? What are the implications for our country? Can you debrief us? Mr President, perhaps in the future we can put the debriefing of such important NATO summits on the agenda as a fixed item. I do not know what the teams or traditions in this committee are about, but it seems to me appropriate, just as the Prime Minister does at a European summit, which also debriefs the Minister of Defence, possibly together with the Minister of Foreign Affairs, if relevant, on the activities at that summit and what exactly was reported from our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic383x.u12	Mr Pillen, such debriefings have indeed taken place in the past and in my opinion that was a good habit. Mr Francken made a written request with the same question about a debriefing. Next week, when we discuss the rules of procedure, I will put that question to the committee so that we can organize it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic383x.u13	Mr President, Madam Minister, my questions are more or less the same as those of my colleagues. This summit was expected with great impatience, a summit attended by the administration of Joe Biden, who is much more cooperative with European countries. Madam Minister, I would therefore like to know what is coming out of this summit, bearing in mind that the NATO 2030 initiative is on the table, which aims to make the Alliance stronger and more coherent. The French President had found that NATO was in a state of "brain death". Where are we in relation to that? Furthermore, what are the consequences for Belgium of developments in burden sharing and the Secretary-General's road map in this area? As far as Iraq is concerned, our presence here today is very symbolic, as there are only one or two Defence representatives in northern Iraq. What, in the future, will be our involvement in this country, which remains extremely fragile and unstable, as we have seen recently in attacks on, inter alia, American positions in the north of the country or in Baghdad. I know that there is a request from the authorities in northern Iraq, but also – it seems – from Baghdad, who would like the Belgian contingent in Iraq to be larger. What initiatives could you possibly take in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic383x.u14	Mr President, the NATO Defence Ministers met on 17 and 18 February in a secure video conference. Two sessions were on the agenda of the first day. The first session was devoted to the NATO 2030 initiative, fair burden sharing (burden sharing), as well as new projects on deterrence and defence. The second session dealt with the transatlantic link, in the presence of the High Representative of the European Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy and the Finnish and Swedish Defence Ministers, alongside the Alliance's colleagues, including the United States. The second day was devoted to operations and missions. At the first session, the Secretary-General gave an overview of his proposals under the NATO 2030 initiative on the role and political dimension of the Alliance. One of these recommendations is to increase NATO's resources for deterrence and defence activities. The consequences of each of these proposals need to be further elaborated, which will be the subject of further discussion before they are approved at the next summit of Heads of State and Government, to be held on a date and with an agenda still to be agreed in 2021. I have recalled the role of the alliance as a privileged forum for political dialogue on security and defence, both at the level of delegations and at the level of capitals. The approach for the future must be ambitious and transversal, especially with regard to cooperation with the European Union. The proposal to extend the common funding to include activities in the context of detachment and defence has certainly attracted my attention. It deserves an in-depth discussion once the detailed aspects are known. The new US administration has already announced that it has the will to revive relations with the alliance. She reaffirmed her attachment to the values we share and her commitment to Article 5. This is a good sign for the command top and the expectations within the ongoing strategic reflection process. With regard to burden sharing, I recalled the need to better take into account all the contributions of the United Nations, which are far more representative than the only 2 per cent threshold of defence expenditures to be reached in 2024. I also stressed the investment efforts already made by Belgium and mentioned that the main effort was now on recruitment. Finally, I supported the new defence and deterrence initiatives. The second day devoted to missions and operations was also very much expected as NATO missions in Afghanistan and Iraq were at a pivotal moment. The alliance continues to carefully assess the situation in Afghanistan. This does not at present call for additional withdrawal, given the level of violence that remains far too high and the insufficient progress in the peace negotiations. Belgium, together with its partners, continues to fully support the peace process and invites all parties to step up efforts to put an end to the conflict. As part of its security and defence policy, Belgium will stand in solidarity with the decisions to be taken by the Alliance. As long as NATO does not take a formal decision on the termination of Resolute Support, Defense will continue to support the mission, in consultation and consultation with its allies, and in particular with Germany, as a lead nation. In Iraq, in response to a request from the Iraqi government and following close consultations with the global coalition, the Alliance decided to launch an expanded mission. This will result in an increase in the training and advisory activities provided by allies in a larger number of security institutions across the country. That is why I welcomed this extension of the mission, in order to improve the stability of the country and to ensure aid in the fight against terrorism. In addition to our contribution to the EU Advisory Mission, I recalled our contribution with an Air Force Detachment from Jordan in the framework of the anti-Daesh coalition and also our financial support for the stabilisation and reconstruction of Iraq. A possible Belgian contribution to the expanded mission will be assessed with all stakeholders at the appropriate time. Prior to this ministerial meeting on 17 and 18 February, I had the opportunity to meet with the Secretary General. I recall that the Secretary-General welcomed the efforts made by Belgium as the host country of NATO headquarters. In particular, it praised the efforts made in the context of the fight against pandemics. In the context of the ongoing NATO operations, the Belgian contributions were welcomed. In the last division, the NATO Secretary-General welcomed the Belgian investment decisions for the replacement of large equipment. The meeting highlighted the importance of the defence efforts of EU Member States contributing to strengthening the collective defence of the alliance. It also welcomed initiatives taken within the EU such as EDR and PESCO. Finally, the implementation of NATO's military strategy was discussed. NATO must prepare for the future, first and foremost with regard to the integration of new technologies and the strengthening of the alliance's resilience.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic383x.u15	Madam Minister, thank you very much for your answers. I understand that the meetings took place in a positive and constructive atmosphere. I also understand that the conversation with Stoltenberg went well. I would have liked to welcome you next week to our Brussels meeting of the NATO Parliament. You apologized. Mrs Wilmès couldn't at first either, but I contacted her myself and she's promised. I am glad that there is no ambassador, but someone from the government is present. The meeting takes place every year. I will pass on the date of 2022 to your cabinet. It would be interesting if you were present. It is a very nice forum where you can also express the Belgian position, which you have now correctly expressed. It is certainly an added value to do so. I am really looking forward to that and I hope I can introduce you next year. I will pass on those dates so that they can be scheduled in time, because you have a very busy agenda. You're very active, and I'd like to see that. With regard to Afghanistan, I had a question, but it may lapse, Mr President. I think we have a good view of this in the committee that is looking at the foreign missions. The question is to stay there after 1 May. We'll follow which way it'll go. There will be another question about the F-16 operation in Jordan over Syria and Iraq. You say you will evaluate it. I myself think it would be more interesting to continue working there and see what we can do with our Land component instead of going to Barkhane. I'm very critical of a mission to the wasp's nest Mali. It's not about taking the Army's chance to use its new equipment. Nor do I believe that there is no need to fight terrorism there. That is not my concern, but if I have to choose between a mission where we are trying to develop something in Iraq or the launch of a third operation in Mali, then I choose Iraq. That's my personal opinion. You'll be having conversations about that. We have to wait and see what they will yield, but in Iraq we have been carrying out a nice operation for years. I'm a dead man. That is impressive and probably more effective than what we are trying to do in Mali.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic383x.u16	Minister, thank you for your answers. The subject is wide and you have done a good job of taking stock of each of the aspects dealt with at this summit. Above all, I note that we will need to talk and have discussions on the NATO 2030 initiative, on burden sharing. Even in this Parliament, we are going to need discussions on this. On Afghanistan, like Mr Franken, I am not asking to keep my next question. I do not know what my other two colleagues think. If you keep your question, I'll keep mine. In any event, I am still a little embarrassed about Afghanistan, but as everywhere else, that our participation or withdrawal from a mission ultimately depends only on the good or bad will of a foreign and, in this case, American administration. If it is within the Council that decisions are taken officially, we are all aware that it is the Americans who give the tempo. We cannot but follow the decision taken elsewhere. It must also and certainly be debated if this mission is to be maintained. Once the withdrawal is completed, I hope we can make a serious analysis of the results of our twenty years on the spot. Obviously, this is not yet on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic383x.u17	Thank you for your comprehensive answer. I think it is right that we should pay more attention to this type of subject both in advance and afterwards. Mr Francken is very active in the NATO Parliament. I follow it, too, through him, among other things. I myself would like to be a part of that, but we are too small for that, if I understand correctly. I believe that this indeed deserves more attention and I support the proposal to pay more attention to this. As far as Iraq is concerned, I share the view that we need to examine the question very seriously. I think that the question from NATO is right and that we need to understand it. We will have to look into how we can become more active there in the near future. In any case, I look forward to the debates in the committee responsible for the follow-up of the foreign missions, where we can discuss both Afghanistan and Iraq.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic383x.u18	Minister, I agree with my colleagues that this meeting took place in a constructive atmosphere. The attitude you seem to have taken also suits me, on the general tone and position of Belgium in these discussions. These are very important, and I think that we will have to come back here in the Defence Committee in order to continue to debate and deepen this issue. With regard to the role of the Alliance and its relationship with European Defence, the way in which it can be made more effective, I remain concerned about certain issues, including Turkey's position. I imagine this debate, as often, is left under the carpet. Anyway, you didn't say a word about it. With regard to the missions themselves, I do not agree with my colleague from Ecolo on Afghanistan. These are obviously very complicated decisions and the results are sometimes very disappointing, but I don't trust an attitude "after me, flies". If we leave Afghanistan in the state where it is today, it would be a disaster for Afghans, given the mortality and brutal and cruel attacks that are being carried out against the Afghan people. It would also be a fragility for the security of the world. These decisions are obviously not easy to make, but I would prefer that Belgium show solidarity and, in complex situations such as this, does not turn its back on difficulty and risk but takes on its share in such difficult operations. The same applies to Iraq. There are no more personnel on the ground, I regret that. I had the opportunity to visit the special forces when they were fighting the Islamic State in the Nineveh plain. They did a very appreciated, remarkable job. Now we have practically no one on the ground, and I regret it. As much as I appreciate the F-16 mission from Jordan, I think it's something else to have men on the ground. It is important to be at work. I do not think that this should be done at the expense of the mission in Mali, where we are also expected and where we must also show solidarity. But given the resurgence of the Islamic State, the seriousness of the situation between the different communities in Iraq and the negative influence that some major powers can sometimes exert around it, I think that the Alliance and Europe should be on the ground in Iraq.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic383x.u19	At the request of Mr Francken, Mr Defossé and Mr Dallemagne, their respective questions will be answered. 55012462C, 55012973C and 55013266C over Afghanistan withdrawn. Question No 5, by Mr De Gucht 55013796C by Mrs Ponthier. Perhaps you could join the topical debate now, Mrs Ponthier? The Minister will then have the floor for a brief reply. Of course, you can always keep your question going.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic383x.u20	Madam Secretary, I have heard your reply on Afghanistan. I understand that in the future we will be given a ruling on our commitment in the country. I look forward, together with all my colleagues, to further developments in this area. That question has therefore been answered.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic383x.u21	To bounce back, you know that from the beginning we've been discussing operations. The goal is to come back to you with an update of operations on 21 when the time comes. We have already discussed Afghanistan in the previous committee. We call for the Taliban to respect the agreement. To withdraw today would create worries in the sense that we risk losing the gains achieved in recent years. If we have to stay there, we will see in what form and it will depend on the level of violence at that time. I believe that we will have the opportunity to address this situation here as I had committed myself to it, whether for the 21st update, for the future or for other operations under the 22 Operational Plan then. I'd also like the Defence to be everywhere. But we know that we have to make choices because we do not have the staff to be present everywhere. We're recruiting for now. I have launched an extensive recruitment campaign, but the new recruits are not yet ready to go into operation. We're working for the long term. Beyond staff, there is also the issue of equipment. Choices will have to be made, and this will be done transparently in the House during debates there.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic383x.u22	Debates of the European Parliament 55012462C by Mr Francken, 55012973C by Mr Defossé, 55013266C by Mr Dallemagne and 55013796C by Mrs Ponthier.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic383x.u23	Madam Minister, I would like to return to the topical debate on 13 January, six weeks ago. I will certainly not repeat everything and begin with a brief summary. The C-130 file threatens to become a nevending story and above all a painful story, especially because it has become a real symbol file, which has exposed many other sore points. We will talk about this when we raise the complete malaise at the War Heritage Institute through oral questions in our committee. At that point, it will be clear to everyone that one clearly cannot be seen apart from the other. This is about the future of the last C-130 device, a device that will soon be out of circulation after years of loyal service and will be replaced by the A400M device. After almost 50 years, the aircraft is the symbol of the 15th Wing in Melsbroek. At the end of last year, you suggested that the aircraft should be assigned to the 1st Wing in Bevekom, against the vision of Defense and against the initial vision of the WHI. Both initially proposed Melsbroek as a preferred solution. One of these partners has apparently changed his opinion, but more on that later. In your reply in our committee during the topical debate in January, you dealt with a lot of points, but you were not complete and some statements did not fully reflect the truth. I am talking about the note of the current CHOD, which, of course, has gone through all the levels that have to be completed, and which preferred Melsbroek. You also referred to the commitment made by Minister Goffin of the C-130 to Bevekom, when he did not say that at the public committee meeting or in any way gave any assurance. I would like to ask you again for clarification on this matter. I am really counting on transparency for that. Madam Minister, first of all, I would like to ask you again why you, as committee members, have still not provided us with all the documents that we have already asked for four times, twice through the committee, once through a written question and once through the President of the Chamber. We ask for access to those documents, but you continue to refuse to do so. I find that very striking. I've never seen that before, even though I've been a Member of Parliament for a while. We have taken advantage of all the resources we can use as Members of Parliament. I hope you will be able to tell us later or to hand over the documents. I suspect that the committee chairman has still not received a document, despite his questions. So the power of the chairman of the committee also appears to be very limited. Apparently, the cabinet or the minister has the omnipotence here. This cannot be done in a democracy, and I would like to make it absolutely clear that this is unseen. The note containing the opinions of COMOPSAIR, DGMR and the current CHOD, which showed that Melsbroek was retained as the current preferred solution for the storage of the last C-130, was therefore not allowed to look. However, some documents were delivered to us as committee members. This included a new additional note from the Director-General ad interim of the WHI, Mr Jaupart. We shall see how long that post will remain ad interim. That is what we are referring to in the next oral question, which deals with the WHI as such. The note I just mentioned was drawn up by the Director-General, Mr Jaupart, and signed by Mr Jaupart, but no one else. In that note, "How else can it be a positive advice for the storage and exhibition in Bevekom, yes. The arguments put forward to suggest Bevekom as a preferred solution are either fake or make little or no sense. The arguments in favour of Bevekom apply equally or even much more to Melsbroek. To cut a long story short, the note, which we have been sent to you in the last instance, there was apparently a panic in the cabinet or in one of the ministers' offices, was drawn up by the Director-General of the WHI on his own. He is not only at odds with the Defence Note that we have just discussed, but also with the previous note from the WHI. In addition, this is very common for an institution of public utility or a scientific institution such as the WHI, the decisions were taken and submitted entirely outside the board of directors. I have looked at all the reports from the Management Board, which we have also received for inspection after repeated pressure, but there is nothing to be found on that. So when did the WHI actually decide to accept the C-130? The fact that the WHI would have decided to move part of its collections to Bevekom is also not reflected in the reports of the board of directors. So I really think I can say that in the meantime the whole dossier has turned itself around in an atmosphere of hidden agendas and an unknowing policy from the old political culture, which we thought we had left behind with a young new guard at the helm. Apparently that's not the case. I would therefore like to know when exactly you were informed of this. After all, I am getting the impression that you are not really playing the first violin in the file yourself and that you are being used by others who are pursuing a different agenda with that symbol file. It is confirmed to us on all sides that you and your cabinet themselves are very bored with this. I will conclude with regard to my general introduction. There are many uncertainties and contradictions. Hence my interplay, again referring to the incompleteness and inaccuracies of your response to the previous discussions. Why the choice for Bevekom? If you look at all the arguments and information relating to the storage and the measures that are already being taken there, why do you still choose Bevekom? The cost-benefit analysis that you put forward at the time does not go far enough. You quote a number of things that are completely incorrect or incomplete. The cost-benefit analysis is very simple by each of us. It's as ready as a whistle. A storage facility in Bevekom costs more; accessibility is poor and there is a lack of expertise in maintenance and storage and on-site capacity. In the meantime, how did you consult with the relevant authorities, including the local government in Steenokkerzeel and the non-profit organisation Dakota, which you and the Prime Minister have written to clarify her position once again? How do you respond to that? Will you finally get in touch with those people? Will that happen in the short term? Is it true that by 2028, a completely new museum will be built in Bevekom, while the strategic plan, to which you refer, does not provide for either budget, land or staff? How do you account for that? My last question is the most pertinent. Will you review your vision and your decision regarding the planned transfer from the C-130 aircraft to Bevekom?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic383x.u24	Mr President, Minister, I think you have a problem, for several reasons. More specifically, there is a problem of informing Parliament. You have committed yourself to providing Parliament with transparency in this dossier. Meanwhile, this file has become a symbol file, although it did not have to be, but I leave that to you, because it is up to you to make decisions. Given the decision you make or don't make, the dolls are going to dance. That's why you've got a problem. You have stated that you will provide information. This was also agreed in the course of the discussion of the arrangements for the work. The information is mainly concerned with sheet No. 10857, which includes the advice of all possible authorities, including the CHOD, on the last site of the CH-13. I understand that you didn't give that advice and refuse to deliver pertinently. Even though this was agreed at the time of the work, and you committed yourself to it, you refuse to share that information with the Chamber. That's why you have a problem. It is a political problem, firstly because this refusal is not common practice, and secondly because the document in question is not just a paper, but an official opinion delivered to the cabinet by the general staff of the Belgian Defence Department. That advice has a number and is therefore an official document. In the context of public administration alone, you have a big problem. That is why you are handing that document over to the Chamber as soon as possible, I think. I think we need to be correct and we need transparency. One of the great promises of this purple-green government, the coalition partners call themselves a Vivaldi government, I call it purple-green.. was a more respectful way of dealing with Parliament. The polarization had to stop, we were going to listen to each other with respect, the opposition would be listened to and the different powers would be acted correctly, and the different powers would be let in their honour. Well, Parliament is the legislative and controlling power. The withholding of information, although that may be different for you, does not fall under the heading of Parliament's proper handling. Why are you withholding this information? If the information cannot be shared, we will have to go further. However, this is not acceptable to our group, the largest group in the country. The N-VA should have tried that with the PS in the opposition. It'd have been a little stifling in here. I can't do that. That is not the way in which a story of the separation of powers and a trias politician is dealt with. That information must be shared by the government with Parliament. Otherwise, we can't do our job as controlling power. I repeat, it's not just about a piece of paper that's written down. It's about a formal advice given to the cabinet by the military leadership. In substance, I maintain that it is a very strange decision-making process. I have, of course, contacted Mr Goffin again. After all, it is claimed that he would have already decided that at that time. I contested that. It seemed very unlikely to me, and that is not true either. You claim that this has already been decided in May 2020. You might want to go over that with him, because he formally denies that claim. I would therefore like some clarification on this point, either you are not telling the truth or Mr Goffin is not speaking the truth. However, it is one of both. You both belong to the same majority in the same language group. That is also where you have a very big problem. It is difficult for you to put the case in the hands of a colleague who formally denies it. So I want to know who's telling the truth in the file. Madam Minister, it is very strange that without consultation and discussion on the WHI Board, it is decided to build such a museum in Beauvechain that will cost millions of euros. Mr Jaupart is controversial and has not yet been definitively appointed. I will ask you in a moment what you will do with his appointment. I'm curious. Why has it never been discussed on a WHI board if you want to invest millions of euros in Beauvechain? There is something to be said for the idea of wanting a new kind of museum with a newer and more modern approach. That is an interesting debate. One can even argue that this should be done not only for the Air Component but also for the other components. This debate should at least first be discussed on the governing board of the body in question, when it comes to spending millions of euros. Mr Jaupart does not do that. I find that very strange. Apparently, he's only discussing it with you. I think this is also problematic. That is why my appeal, Madam Secretary, is to review your decision and keep the C-130 at least temporarily in Melsbroek. There is a hallway and therefore does not need to be built a temporary hall. If there really is a plan with the WHI about what is going to be done with Bastogne, Ypres, Beauvechain and here in the Cinquantenary Park, then you have to come to this. Then we'll discuss it with the professionalism our committee knows. If that happens, we can eventually evolve into a situation in which a C-130 takes its place as an iconic piece of our Belgian air force. It could be in Bauvechain or Melsbroek. We'll see about that. But now quickly decide to put him in Beauvechain quickly because it has to be, against all the advice, that stinks for hours in the wind. We cannot accept that. Let us have the debate and let us have the note and then look at what we are doing with it. By the time this can be built, we've been a few years. So anyway, the C-130 stays in Melsbroek. That is our proposal. Then we'll see what eventually comes into the house of all the big plans. I have a lot of questions about that too. I agree with a number of questions put by Mrs Ponthier. Why the choice for Beauvechain? What about your statement that Minister Goffin and the CHOD already reached agreement on this in May 2020? Why does it mention WHI Beauvechain? In fact, it's just the director of the ad interim who says that. The rest of us don't know anything. What's the condition of the C-130? What are the plans for the museum in Beauvechain? Will other parts of the collection be transferred from, for example, Melsbroek, Koksijde, Brussels, Countries and Florennes? There too, I think, this will lead to a lot of protests. The agency that is now working in Beauvechain works with volunteers and is very small. It's a good thing these professionals are willing to do that voluntarily. All due respect for that. But right now they don't have the power to build such a large museum. That will then have to be supported by the WHI, I suppose. How exactly do you see that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic383x.u25	As chairman, I am not going to comment on the substance of this dossier. This isn't the place to do that either. Two weeks ago, a number of colleagues reminded me that I should maintain that neutrality. In view of the same neutrality, I must point out that during the work on 3 February, it was explicitly and unanimously requested that all documents be made available. As President, I would like to say that I regret that we have still not received all the documents today. Madam Minister, I am really counting on us to receive all these documents today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic383x.u26	Mr President, I wish to speak on the order of business.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic383x.u27	I give the floor to Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic383x.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me first to outline the chronology of the C-130 dossier. On February 5, 2019, the WHI will send a letter to the CHOD Marc Compernol, because they would like to place a C-130 in the main hall of the Royal Army Museum. On 4 July 2019, the CHOD gave its agreement in principle to assign a declassified C-130 to the WHI and requested a feasibility study for the future location of the aircraft. On 26 May 2020, my predecessor decided to transfer a C-130 to the WHI. On 3 July 2020, the Council of Ministers adopted the decision to sell the fleet of C-130s, with the exception of an aircraft transferred to the WHI collection. Based on the various elements in my possession and in particular a detailed proposal with the WHI's vision on the location and the spotlight of this aircraft, on 7 December 2020 I decided to confirm the transfer of the C-130 to the WHI, to showcase the aircraft in Beauvechain. The WHI is the privileged partner of Defence for all matters relating to the management and exploitation of the historical military heritage. That is what the legislation provides for, for sound reasons. I would like to remind you what the WHI is, which are the tasks of this institute and what central role it plays in the memory work in Belgium. The WHI is responsible for the elaboration and implementation of the policy for the management of the movable, immovable and intangible heritage of armed conflicts with Belgian involvement. The institute promotes democratic values and citizenship, and contributes to the appearance of Belgium by showing history and preserving the memory of conflicts in which our country was involved. The WHI thus places the Belgian heritage in the spotlight and has the entire population as a target audience, as well as foreign visitors. I also announced in my policy statement that I would like to strengthen the role of the WHI in the field of military history, memory and citizenship. In view of the importance of the obligation to remember, this ambition was unanimously welcomed by the members of this committee. It is in that logic, in particular according to the recommendations of the staff, that I have confirmed my predecessor's decision to assign the C-130 to a federal public institution associated with Defence, which has precisely the task of placing this kind of heritage in the spotlight and making it accessible to as many people as possible. As part of the feasibility study, the WHI delivered its opinion on 3 November 2020. It recommends placing the device on the website of Beauvechain for various reasons. In 2018, the WHI developed an overall strategy for the future of heritage storage, in particular voluminous heritage, and the optimisation of its museumology. This global strategy for the institute was approved by the then custody minister in 2019. The aim of the plan is to ensure a balanced distribution of heritage across national territory, to modernise museums and to strengthen the attractiveness of the various sites. In this context, it is planned that Defense will grant the infrastructure of the sites in Ypres and Beauvechain to the WHI in concession. In this way, the institute can develop two modern museum poles. Ypres' site will be dedicated to the Cold War and its aftermath, and will mainly accommodate rolling stock. The heritage currently in Brasschaat will be transferred there, just like some of the pieces in Countries. According to current planning, the C-130 should be housed in a hangar in Beauvechain and fully exploited by 2023. After all, the WHI has conceived the plan to open the device to the public according to the contemporary rules of museumology. With a multimedia system, visitors can discover the missions carried out by the Belgian C-130s during the long service record of the fleet. Examples of the material transported will be exhibited around the aircraft. The WHI will develop the site of Beauvechain as its own site. This means that the institute itself will manage the site and the collections owned by the federal state. A full team of the WHI, including a site manager, will be assembled to manage the new museum pool in Beauvechain in the long run. Meanwhile, the C-130 will already be exhibited and can be viewed by a large number of visitors. The site of Beauvechain already houses the First Wing Historical Centre. The WHI can thus introduce the 7,000 annual visitors of that center to the C-130, while building its own site. For comparison, the site of Melsbroek attracts only 300 to 500 visitors per year. Unlike Melsbroek, Beauvechain's site has the advantage that access is separated from that of the military base, making it easier for the public to access. The experts of the WHI will be responsible for the maintenance and protection of the aircraft. In this context, the Institute may freely decide to engage volunteers and, if necessary, to conclude contracts or partnerships in accordance with the legal rules. Moreover, the estimated budget to show the aircraft optimally, practically and with maximum visibility on the Melsbroek site is 600,000 euros, while estimates for the Beauvechain site speak of 350,000 euros. My final decision fits in with the long-term vision of the WHI, which wants to highlight the Belgian military heritage, which is consistent with the logic of public services for the whole country and for as many people as possible. The last C-130 will therefore be protected, maintained and exhibited to the public by the WHI, an institution whose main mission is to preserve the memory. Finally, I would like to clarify that the aircraft will be transferred to the WHI collections according to the WHI regulations. It remains the property of the Belgian State. Management is still transferred to the WHI in accordance with the rules in force with a contract laying down the management arrangements for the apparatus. The Public Procurement Act therefore does not apply in the context of the transfer of the apparatus to the WHI. In addition, to answer the specific questions of the members of this committee, I can still tell you that the site Groenveld is preserved as a military quarter, with the exception of a small plot that will be estranged. The municipality of Steenokkerzeel is currently investigating how it can facilitate access to the SME area through the military domain. Then I come to your fears about the treatment of the CH-8. The C-130 is currently on the website of Beauvechain. The device was declassified and removed from circulation to cannibalize it. Channelisation is a common practice when equipment has reached the end of its life and spare parts on the market are rare or excessively expensive. This practice is also common for other types of equipment and this in many countries. With this aircraft we can guarantee the availability of the fleet C-130s, until the A400Ms are put into operation, and we can minimize the costs of maintenance to keep the fleet C-130s operational. Several parts have already been removed and the device needs to be cannibalized even further. Similarly, the landing gear will be removed, to be used for didactic purposes. In this case, it is not the intention to restore this plane. By the way, some parts are no longer available at the Department of Defense. Moreover, this aircraft is also used for fire-fighting exercises, without being set on fire, as has been said here. No water is used either, but smokers are used to mimic a fire. Practical and theoretical exercises shall address how to block fire on a large transport aircraft, how to open the doors, how to act during the loading of vehicles or how to rescue the crew. This C-130 is therefore very useful throughout the training of airport firefighters. Finally, I have photos of the device at my disposal, on which you can see that it was neither rusted nor set on fire. As part of my responses to questions from some members of the committee at the previous meeting, I provided the information that I believe would help to understand how the decisions to transfer the C-130 to the WHI were made and to expose the aircraft to Beauvechain. Today, I have again provided additional information as part of my response to the inquiries. The questions relate to requests for information. Ministers are required to provide the requested information but are not required to provide documents. It is a matter of trust and I believe that we are not in the framework of a committee of inquiry. On the other hand, I would also point out that, with regard to internal documents between people, we cannot normally give them. I have sent you the two detailed studies that allow you to understand the choices made. An exchange between the Minister and her Chief of Defence should not be communicated, contrary to what you are saying. I already told you what Chod said in his opinion several weeks ago. I can remind you. It shall be entered: "For emotional and pragmatic reasons, favorable advice to position CH-13 in Melsbroek." I have voluntarily communicated certain documents to the committee. I have done so in good faith, relying on a constructive attitude on the part of the members of this committee. I hope I do not have to regret this, especially to some members whom I have felt really touched by this problem. It will always be possible to request more documents, or the documents on which the documents submitted are based, or the reasons for the reasons and reasons for the reasons. But I think at some point it has to stop. The elements I have provided are sufficient. Controlling government action does not mean making decisions in its place. Effective parliamentary scrutiny does not mean that parliamentarians themselves make the decision they want. This decision-making is the responsibility of the ministers. My answer and the documents provided contain the arguments taken into account for the political decisions I have put forward and assume, on which I will not return. They are sufficient to understand these decisions and to provide parliamentarians with answers to the questions they have asked. They are sufficient to exercise parliamentary control. The members of the committee were able to see that there is no doubt as to the legality of the decisions I have taken. They were also able to learn about the situation and the opinions on which I made these decisions. I believe that I have responded satisfactorily to the questions and inquiries that have been addressed to me. Whether or not some members of the committee agree with the conclusion I reached, that is another question. Their appreciation in opportunity does not undermine the management that I have made of this dossier. The insinuations that I have heard and read to the left and right begin to irritate me, even seem stupid: "when you're running out of arguments, you throw everything and anything." I would remind you that we are in Parliament. I think we expect something else from this institution, we expect a real democratic debate and we would do without these insinuations. Other ministers before me, who do not have the same political background, have chosen to trust the WHI. Why? Because first of all, it is a matter of common sense and, as a federal minister, we must make decisions in the public interest, for the whole population, and not to satisfy one or the other community. I am not commuting and I would like to see no commuting in this Parliament. And then no! I do not base my decisions on emotional elements, although I can understand that for some it is difficult. I am pragmatic and take the necessary height as well as the step backwards to make responsible, thoughtful decisions, such as that, in this case, to entrust our heritage to a national institution, whose mission is precisely to preserve the military heritage, an institution that has a project. By the way, the budget for its creation in Beauvechain will be half that of Melsbroek, while the institution has more than twenty times the number of visitors to Melsbroek. I'm sorry I don't agree! Really! On the other hand, Mrs Ponthier, I don't know where you get your information from, but the sources are not accurate. First of all, I am not bored with the issue, and I am certainly not in panic, because, as I said to you, I believe that is common sense and that it is the responsibility of a federal minister. The arguments that would have been given in favour of Beauvechain are false? No! Not at all! I just gave them to you talking about budget and visitors in particular. Would there be greater accessibility to Melsbroek? Now, I think you're really in error as well as in relation to costs. With regard to the WHI, he twice validated the transfer of the C-130 to Beauvechain, not later than last week. So I'm not here hiding a truth or hiding documents from you. I've set the history for you. I just don't have to give you the document, but I read it to you. But anyway you knew very well, since you gave a reference that I myself did not possess. For my part, the subject is closed and I know that we will not agree. I'd like everyone to get a little higher!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic383x.u29	Madam Secretary, you're talking about trust. Allow us, members of the committee, to find it difficult to honour that trust at the moment, when we see what machinery has been used here over the last few weeks by you and your cabinet to withhold a number of matters from this committee, that is to say Parliament. You persist in anger. This has never been seen. It's going to be an embarrassing spectacle, not the least for yourself. So I do not want to thank you for the answers you have given, because they have not reassured us at all. As you know, the cost-benefit analysis figures have been drawn. They do not make much sense and are not supported by any document. You're talking about photos of the CH-08. Too bad you can't show here the pictures of the situation in Bevekom as it is now and will not change in the short term. One could then see the difference here. Perhaps we will soon be able to see this clearly in the context of a working visit with this committee. You are also talking about the mandates of the WHI and you have listed them. Of course, that's all right, you can't hear anyone deny it here. The way in which is of course another matter. The only thing that is reconfirmed here in your answers is that there are other things going on here. You can deny that as you can deny the sunlight, but you know very well that it is. Between the lines, you have once again confirmed that other interests play. The WHI's ad interim DG, Mr Jaupart, makes deals behind the back of his own board of directors, you cannot deny that. We have the reports from the board of directors, and there is nothing in them about the plans you have presented here, about the deposit plan and others. There is no sign of it on any level. It is a fact that nothing was decided by the WHI at all. Only a positive opinion was drawn up by the document that you had added to the feasibility study and the bundle we were sent. As Minister of Defence, you should take a warm heart to the preservation of military heritage and choose the best option at all times, but you rely on this so-called study, with arguments that do not make sense at all: not in terms of substance and certainly not in terms of budget. As I said in my question, there is no study at any time that can confirm anything about the grounds, staff deployment or the budgetary impact of the plans in Bevekom. On the basis of that study, you will therefore approve this decision. We all know that the turnaround in the decision was only made in the last instance in your cabinet. That's what I'm talking about with the panic football you played. You say it's our right to disagree. However, not only us, but also the people on the field deal with this. Despite my question, you did not tell us how you would contact those people, so that they could express their grievances to you personally, and you could look at the situation in that area, after which you could make a proper decision. You still have time, because nothing is pressing, at least for us, perhaps for others. You have also mentioned emotions, but I would like to leave aside the emotions in this debate, as well as the Community aspect. Let us focus on good governance and efficient policies. The fact that you once again ignore the committee's request for access to the mentioned note, while otherwise you want to share all the notes very transparently, is quite appalling. In my opinion, it is also a sign of malice, I cannot name it any other way. I assure you that I will not leave it at this. In the next discussion of the arrangements for the work, I would ask the chairman of this committee for a comprehensive explanation of the whole of this matter, in which all the partners concerned can be heard, including the current CHOD, as his vote in this matter may also count. Mr President, on behalf of the Vlaams Belangroep, I am tabling a motion of recommendation, which I am now handing over to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic383x.u30	I personally went to Beauvechain. I don't know if you do, but if you don't, I invite you to go. We must not criticize without knowing and even less criticizing the volunteers. I hear we give names, we sue some people. We're in open session. It is a way of doing things that I do not appreciate, especially since the criticisms are unfounded. Can't I just ask what we finally want? Is it desired that, as in the past, each unit, each base should have its own museum? Is that what we want? Is that what good management means? Or do we really want major military heritage projects for our country? As far as the document is concerned, I have read it to you. If you wish to receive it, I shall hand it over to the chairman of this committee. Make good use of it! Anyway, I know it won't satisfy you because it doesn't fit in with you. Read the notice that will be communicated to you and you will find that I did not lie to you during my presentation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic383x.u31	I have to admit, I'm not entirely with you. Is this about the advice? Can this be copied and delivered? Can we suspend the meeting for that, please? My question is whether the sitting can be suspended and the opinion delivered. We're in an ongoing interplay right now. I would, of course, like to read the opinion. The Minister will deliver it to Parliament after weeks of discussion. I'd like to take note of the advice. I would like to interpret the Minister and ask for the opinion to be discussed. Before that, I'd like to read it first. There is a new and crucial element that we are waiting for for weeks. That's suddenly being delivered. Then, of course, I would like to read it before saying anything about it. That makes sense to me. Then why couldn't this be delivered tomorrow or last week, or two weeks ago, or even a month ago? Ma'am, you shouldn't be so pedantic. I'm talking. You can do your thing, I'll do my thing. If I speak too loud, put earplugs in.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic383x.u32	You're shouting loud, Mr. Franken! I already told you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic383x.u33	You don't know what yelling is. Believe me, I'm not shouting at all. I just have a loud voice.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic383x.u34	I give the floor to Mrs Ponthier. I suspect it's about the suspension.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic383x.u35	Mr President, are the documents you have just been given, the documents we have been asking the Minister for six weeks? Are those the documents that she now comes to throw on your desk, at 11 o'clock, with complete contempt for this committee? Madam Minister, is that the note of 30 November that was approved and overrun by all the services? That is what we want to see with this committee. I think this is very important.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic383x.u36	I'm suspending the sitting five minutes before the paper is distributed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic383x.u37	Ladies and gentlemen, the documents have now been distributed. We are in this debate with the replies. Mr Francken has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic383x.u38	Mr President, Minister, this was a bit of a surprise. It shows your temperament, which I do appreciate, I also have temperament. It's got to be possible, definitely. I am glad that the proposal will be delivered. I'd rather have had it sooner, but okay. I'm gonna go read it all again quietly. Madam Secretary, I'm not yelling. If I were to shout in the micro, it would give something here in this plenary room. I've never done that before. The only person I've ever known here is Mr Denis Ducarme. That was in 2011 and then everyone was dead quiet. That man really called Parliament into question at the time. That was unbelievable. That was during a debate on migration. That was yelling. He was on the stage. People who were already in Parliament then, like Mrs Ponthier, will remember that. I'm not a caller. I'm just speaking loudly. Because of my sound box and because of this sound box and the micro, it may sometimes sound very loud. I apologize for that. I don't want you to suffer any hearing damage, which would be unfortunate. I come to the heart of the matter. You say there are 7,000 visitors a year at the First Wing. You give those numbers. I think that's a lot. So I'd like to ask you where you're getting that. If I understand correctly, the First Wing is open every two weeks on a Sunday afternoon, that's all. This means that it is open about 25 Sundays a year for a number of hours in the afternoon. 7,000 means about 350 visitors per opening Sunday. That's a lot. You should know I live near Beauvechain. I was there last weekend. I've got a lot of friends living there. There are a lot of Flemings living in Beauvechain, about 25 %. The building land is cheaper there and so many people are going to live there. Sounds like a lot to me. An average of 350 visitors per opening Sunday at the Air Force Base seems a lot to me. Maybe all visitors to an air show were counted, so one day with a lot of visitors. Could be, I don't know. In any case, if it is said that there are only 300 to 500 visitors at Dakota in Melsbroek, then it is not the information that was officially communicated, because that is 2,000 per year. Where do you get these figures that there are only 300 to 500 visitors in Melsbroek? After all, that's not what I just got from the people of Dakota. Last year's official figures concerned 2,000 visitors and that was a difficult year. I'd like to see that checked anyway. I would also like those figures. After all, you seem to have dates that I do not have. So I'd like to get some clarity. Secondly, you say that the installation in Melsbroek would cost EUR 600,000. I also read about this, know or hear that it would amount to about EUR 100,000. You're talking about 600,000 euros. Where do you get that amount? You mentioned 350,000 euros for Beauvechain with a Veldeman construction. That too is a considerable amount of money. That would be done through crowdfunding. For the record, zero euro has been collected for the time being. So that whole amount has yet to be collected. Since all the military want it to get to Melsbroek quite badly, there will, quite frankly, not be much collection via crowdfunding. I do not know whether you have taken note of the letter delivered yesterday or today to the Prime Minister by the Vzw Dakota. Maybe you got him, too. I don't know. There are also 2,020 or 2,021 signatures, the number is perhaps symbolically handed over to the Prime Minister with a very strong argument for choosing Melsbroek anyway. So it's weird that you say that you decide and that it's just emotional. It's really not just emotional. It is not us, Parliaments, but a lot of soldiers who want the choice to be Melsbroek. I have one more point. You say that you are not an emotional decision because you are not, but that you look at the dossier and choose a pragmatic solution, away from the Community, which you do not care about. You're just asking to look at the file, which you adorned. However, you repeat two to three times that the CHOD gives a favourable advice for the CH-13 in Melsbroek for emotional and pragmatic reasons. You're not involved in emotionality, but I assume you're practicing pragmatism. I assume you're a pragmatic politician. I know you that way, too. The pragmatic argument of the CHOD is also important. The pragmatic argument is, among other things, that there is no room now. You state that the aircraft can be stationed at the B28 warehouse. However, that is not possible. There is also in the technical opinion, which I shall read out, the following. "The CH-13 will be placed on the platform of the B28 warehouse. In the long term, this C-130 will then be placed by road to the zone of the 1WHC. For this purpose the C-130 outer wings should be removed and forest cover is also necessary." So trees will be cut down in Beauvechain to get the CH-13 through the road. "It should be noted that the platform B28 is not available at the time of the last scheduled flight'. After all, there are unsold Alpha Jets and there is the use of the platform for helicopter tow to the paint shed. Pragmatic reasons are important: if you take that plane out of the air in April, you cannot take it there, because there is simply no room for it. Pragmatism is important in this matter. You're not involved in the emotional, but I think that's important. The post-war tradition is that the last aircraft to be removed from the air remains on the last base. That has been the case for years, for decades, and now for the first time that tradition is broken by moving the C-130 from Melsbroek to Beauvechain. I find that very strange. That is not only emotional, but also content. Also about Brasschaat you say tough things: everything goes away there and goes to Ypres, where there will be a museum with a focus on the Cold War. Ypres is best known for World War I. I therefore find it very strange that we would build a museum in Ypres that does not pay attention to the First World War. More than a hundred thousand war tourists come each year to Ypres and the beautiful region in the Westhoek, which often spend a short week there. I can understand that they have seen enough of the cemeteries and the Iron Tower and that they want to visit a museum, because it is bad weather. Well, I am convinced that a museum with the most beautiful parts of the First World War would be a visitor magnet. That would be a bull's-eye, and if the government wants to achieve that, it will receive our support, but what does the Cold War have to do with that? When one chooses materials and tanks from that period in Bastogne, one gets many visitors, because that is part of the experience of the Ardennes offensive and the Second World War. That's a nice museum, by the way. In Ypres, however, you want to create a museum that has very little to do with what happened there. I think that's weird. There will also be much to do about clearing out the base of Brasschaat. I understand that you want to go to a big plan and that you don't want all these small museums per base anymore. You want three to four major museums, the existing museum in Brussels, a museum to be built in Ypres and the existing museum in Bastogne. These will be the big signposts or flagships of our historic heritage. I understand that from an economic and heritage perspective. But there's something bothering me. First of all, you have nothing in Beauvechain at the moment. My proposal is to leave the C-130 in Melsbroek at least in the first phase and not to move it immediately. If the WHI, with its current leadership, ever succeeds in building something that is really handsome, then one can still transfer the device and see what one can do with Ypres. However, I am very critical and, if necessary, I will question you about this every week for three years. In view of the audits at the WHI, given the administrative malpractices and the difficulties at the WHI, I am personally convinced that it will not succeed. However, I wish you every success. The financial aspect is also important here, how much will it cost and who will pay it? I believe that first seeing and then believing in this is a good principle. I understand the concept in itself, but I'm afraid it won't work. I advocate keeping the C-130 in Melsbroek in a first phase anyway. After a few years, we'll see where we are with the planning. That's my call to you. It is not an emotional appeal, it is a substantive appeal in line with the advice of the CHOD, the army staff and all the other departments that have expressed their opinion on this matter. After six weeks, we finally got that advice. I, too, have tabled a motion. The first question, the delivery of those documents, can be deleted, as we now have it. However, I think it is important to find out how you obtained these figures, because I am not aware of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic383x.u39	Mr President, I would like to make a brief statement. I'm hearing here about malfeasance at the WHI. It's still a very serious accusation. I am not at all aware of this. You may have some information, but otherwise, these terms should not be used when they are not proven.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic383x.u40	I'd like to explain that. There are very negative audit reports, both from the Court of Auditors... There's a problem at the WHI. I attended the hearing. I didn't see you there, Madam Secretary. There are very negative reports on the WHI. The Court of Auditors has come to report. Read the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic383x.u41	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic383x.u42	Okay, but now we're talking terminology. I will redefine my words. The WHI is currently sub-optimally managed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic383x.u43	Ladies and gentlemen, there are also questions about the functioning of the WHI on the agenda. Madam Minister, there is undoubtedly an answer to that in your bundle, but I do not think we will get that far today. With regard to Mrs Ponthier's suggestion to hold further hearings on this matter, we will not decide today. Mrs Ponthier, next week there will be a debate on the organisation of work and I suggest that you address this matter there. I hear Mr Francken saying that there will be another text amendment to his motion. Do you have a text amendment, Mrs Ponthier?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic383x.u44	Of course. The first is to have all documents available for inspection. This document merely confirms what I have said on several occasions. You say that we will not like the content of this, Madam Minister, but I do not see anything in it that we have not already said. It only confirms what we have mentioned, that aside. The first request may be deleted for me, because it has now been delivered to us.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic383x.u45	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A first motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Annick Ponthier and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplays of Mrs Annick Ponthier and Mr Theo Francken and the response of the Minister of Defence, - having regard to the fact that the C-130 units are about to leave the Defence Department for replacement by the A400M and therefore the old aircraft had to be decided; - having regard to the fact that most of the appliances are currently being made available for sale, or have been partially dismantled or scraped; - having regard to the fact that a last aircraft (CH-13) is being fitted as a museum piece, within the framework of the need for preservation and exhibition of relevant military heritage for the public; - having regard to the fact that the placement in Melsbroek shows respect for the active and retired staff who have worked with this apparatus and which, in risky and sometimes even life-threatening conditions, is long before the F-16 service in the Middle East; - having regard to the fact that the home base of the C-130 has been the 15th Wing in Melsbroek for years and days and the site in Bevekom is a basis for fighter aircraft and therefore the C-130 aircraft has no connection to the site; - having regard to the fact that Melsbroek already has the capacity and expertise available and is therefore very limited to on-site storage; - having regard to the link with the local aviation industry; - whereas important infrastructure works under the A400M anchor the establishment of the 15th Wing and thus also the continuation of the air base at the international airport along the Melsbroek side; - considering the accessibility to the general public in Melsbroek, - given that each flying unit in the country retains a copy of its heritage on its basis and it has never been seen that material and traditions of one unit are removed and placed with another unit; - having regard to the fact that the storage facility in Bevekom does not currently offer any storage capacity (and only - provided that the necessary investments can be made - at the earliest by 2026), lacks accessibility, expertise and specialised staff and costs significantly higher; - having regard to the fact that the future plans on the Bevekom site are only in the long term, without any justification. budget, staffing and planning can be proposed and this therefore creates uncertainty and lack of transparency; - having regard to the unjustified role played by the WHI in the decision-making process; - having regard to the fact that a C-130 device (tail number CH-08) is already available on the military grounds of Bevekom, 1st Wing Historical Center, provided for didactic purposes; - taking into account the feasibility study and the military advice of the Defence Staff, which was delivered to the Minister on 30 November 2020, which showed that the storage of the last C-130 in Melsbroek was chosen over storage in Bevekom for many reasons; - having regard to the importance of an appropriate post-destination plan of (military and other) heritage; - having regard to the importance of thorough prior consultation with regard to: heritage records in which all interested parties are heard; - having regard to the fact that this did not happen sufficiently in this regard, both with the local administration of Steenokkerzeel and with the non-profit organisation Dakota, which can present concrete plans for an adequate preservation of the last C-130 as a museum piece as well as concrete plans for the re-destination of domain Groenveld in Steenokkerzeel; - taking into account the fact that 15th Wing launches a petition, supported by Dakota vzw and the fact that the petition has already received more than 1,500 signatures; asks the government the decision or plans to revise the storage of the last C-130 and to grant the last resting place of aircraft CH-13 to 1st Wing in Melsbroek, i.e. historical and other reasons, cited in the preambles above." A first motion for a recommendation was tabled by Ms. Annick Ponthier and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiries of Mrs Annick Ponthier and Mr Theo Francken and the Minister of Defence's response, - in view of the fact that the C-130 aircraft will soon be withdrawn from the defence service because of their replacement by the A400M and therefore decisions had to be taken with regard to the old aircraft; - in view of the fact that at present most of the aircraft are/have been made available for sale, or are (partly) dismantled or broken; - in view of the fact that it is planned to keep one last plane (CH-13) as a museum piece, in view of the need to preserve and expose the military heritage important to the public; - in view of the fact that the handing over of the aircraft to Melsbroek constitutes a measure of respect for the active and retired personnel who have worked with it, in risky and sometimes life-threatening situations, long before the deployment of the F-16s in the Middle East; - in view of the fact that the 15th Wing in Melsbroek has been the C-130 allocation base for years, that the Beauvechain site is a base for fighter aircraft and that the C-130 therefore maintains no connection with the latter site; - in view of the fact that the capacity and expertise are already planned and available for the hour in Melsbroek and that the cost of on-site storage is therefore very low; - having regard to the link with the local aviation industry; - Whereas significant infrastructure work for the A400M is being carried out to anchor the 15th Wing and therefore also to maintain the air base at the international airport at the Melsbroek terrain; - in view of the accessibility of Melsbroek's land to the general public; - in view of the fact that any air unit in that country keeps on its base a copy of its heritage and that it has never seen before that equipment and traditions of a unit are transferred to another unit; - in view of the fact that the storage at Beauvechain does not currently offer (and will not be able to offer) capacity (as long as the necessary investments are made) as early as 2026), that it does not present accessibility, expertise and specialized personnel and that it will be significantly more expensive; - in view of the fact that future projects for the Beauvechain site can only be presented in the long term and without any basis in terms of budget, staff and timetable, which therefore leads to confusion and lack of transparency; - in view of the role that the WHI plays illegitimately in the decision-making process; - in view of the fact that a C-130 aircraft (CH-08 registered) is already available on the Beauvechain military field, 1st Wing Historical Center, and intended for educational purposes; - having regard to the feasibility study and the military opinion of the Defence Staff, transmitted to the Minister on 30 November 2020, which showed that the transfer of the last C-130 to Melsbroek was for many reasons preferable to its transfer to Beauvechain; - given the importance of an appropriate future allocation plan for the heritage (military, among others); - in view of the importance of prior and in-depth consultation on matters relating to heritage, all parties concerned being heard; - in view of the fact that in the present case such a consultation was not carried out properly with both the local government of Steenokkerzeel and the ASBL Dakota, both of which are in a position to present concrete plans for the proper preservation of the last C-130 museum and concrete plans for the reassignment of the Groenveld district to Steenokkerzeel; - in view of the fact that the 15th Wing, with the support of ASBL Dakota, has launched a petition which has already collected more than 1500 signatures; asks the government to review the decision or plans concerning the surrender of the last C-130 and to assign the last residence of the aircraft registered CH-13 to the 15th Wing to Melsbroek, for historical and other reasons, as set out in the recitals above." A second motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Theo Francken and Mr Peter Buysrogge and Mrs Darya Safai and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplays of Mrs Annick Ponthier and Mr Theo Francken and the response of the Minister of Defence, asks the government the decision to exhibit the C-130 with tail number CH-13 in Beauvechain and to follow the recommendations of the preliminary studies that Melsbroek identifies as the most suitable location in the short term." A second motion of recommendation was tabled by Messrs. Theo Francken and Peter Buysrogge and Mrs Darya Safai and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiries of Mrs Annick Ponthier and Mr Theo Francken and the Minister of Defence's response, asks the government to review the decision to expose the C130s with registration number CH-13 in Beauvechain and to follow the recommendations of the preliminary study which designates Melsbroek as the most suitable place of exposure in the short term." A simple motion was tabled by Mr André Flahaut. A simple motion was tabled by Mr. André Flahaut. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic383x.u46	Mr President, Madam Minister, I would like to question you about the balance-of-payments insurance, about which much has been to be done for some time. After months of negotiations between Defence and Assuralia, you signed a new convention on 15 December, which should provide our military with a solution to the problem of debt balance insurance in the event of death. That is a very sensitive and painful dossier, in which our soldiers were excluded because of their risky activities or massive premiums had to pay. This could lead to distressing situations in domestic and foreign missions if casualties occurred. As of 1 July 2021, members of Assuralia and Defence are engaged to ensure that all Defence personnel are covered in case of death, both during domestic and foreign operations and during the execution of their daily job. The new scheme aims to cover the outstanding amount of the balance of debt insurance "in realising a war risk, during operations at home and abroad and during the conduct of risky personnel training or training activities: parachute jumping, deep sea diving and other underwater activities, explosives and firearms manipulation, combat sports, climbing activities and for the crew in military flight accidents'. Insurers take care of cover in the other cases. Madam Secretary, can you explain the agreement and the negotiations? What are the improvements compared to the previous Convention of 2006? Is it true that in the new convention, the defence industry bears almost all the burdens? Which cases will be covered by the insurers themselves? Will Defense impose conditions or limits on its staff when taking out debt balance insurance, as it will assume responsibility? There is a seven-month period between the conclusion of the Convention and its entry into force. Is there a retroactive effect or are there solutions for tragic accidents during the interim period? In addition to the balance insurance, were there any other insurance problems with Assuralia, for example about hospitalisation insurance, which is currently offered by the department itself?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic383x.u47	On 15 December 2020, a new agreement was concluded with Assuralia as a guarantee of mortgage credit for the main residence of military and civilian personnel of Defence. Thanks to this agreement, defence personnel and their families will in future be better protected against the risks inherent in their jobs. In a standard debt balance insurance policy, a number of risky activities are often excluded or only insured if an additional premium is paid. As a result, some soldiers have so far, sometimes unconsciously, been insufficiently insured. The new agreement with Assuralia, which will enter into force from July 2021, will provide a solution to this. Until then, the existing surogation scheme can be relied upon if the death occurs in an operating zone and the insurer refuses cover. The condition for this is that the military must have informed his insurer of the shipment with a view to obtaining additional cover. Compared to the 2005 Convention, in addition to its application to both military personnel and civilian personnel in Defence, there is mainly an extension to all deaths in service and not just deaths in the operating area. Defense will now cover death by war risk and seven risky professional activities. The seven risky activities are skydiving, deep-sea diving and other underwater activities, explosives manipulation, firearms manipulation, combat sports, climbing activities, military aircraft accidents or any other aircraft used by the Defense Department. In return, insurers cover all other deaths in employment and no longer apply for additional contributions to cover specific occupational profiles, foreign operations or risky activities. In short, we are moving towards a real partnership in which the risks are shared between the defence and the insurer. Future insurance contracts will therefore no longer be subject to additional premiums or exclusion clauses due to the military profession. All existing insurance contracts can also be brought under the new scheme at the request of the military. A death due to war risks, during an operation in Belgium or abroad, like a death during the pursuit of a number of risky activities, will now be covered by the Defence Department at 100%, and all other deaths at 100% by the insurer. No other insurance problems were raised during the negotiations with Assuralia.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic383x.u48	Madam Secretary, thank you. I must say that I am very satisfied with this agreement, and I mean a lot of soldiers with me. It's been hard and long. It's really a step forward, so congratulations. This will finally be better arranged. We will continue to monitor whether premiums do not appear in certain situations. That is not the intention at the moment, but well, we will continue to follow this and we will see.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic383x.u49	Colleagues, this was the last question. It seems relevant to me to be able to work a little longer at another meeting. After all, the older questions always linger. I know that the Minister is always at Parliament's disposal and is here regularly. However, we must look forward to a longer meeting so that we can finish a number of items on the agenda. I will contact the Minister to see what is possible in the next few weeks.
