ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u1	Madam Minister, on 22 September the 4th United Nations anti-racism conference took place following the 20th anniversary of the Durban Declaration and its action programme against racism in New York. Israeli President Herzog called on 13 July to boycott the conference, because Israel believes that the conference bathes in an atmosphere of raw Jew hatred and anti-Semitism. Then the N-VA colleagues said that the federal government should not go to the conference. Many academics from various Belgian universities and representatives from civil society have responded with an open letter and explicitly highlight the difference between the Durban Declaration and the World Conference against Racism (WCAR) NGO Forum Declaration. The first refers to anti-Semitism and the Holocaust, while paragraph 63 also expresses concern about the plight of the Palestinian people under foreign occupation and the inalienable right of the Palestinian people to self-determination and the establishment of an independent state. However, this does not happen without underlining Israel's right to security in the same sense. A general appeal for peace in the Middle East follows in paragraph 64. The authors of the open letter stress the need to distinguish between the two documents; the first is the official statement and the second is a statement by NGOs. They also warn that a boycott of the conference is a weakening of the United Nations, instrumentalising the fight against anti-Semitism in order to achieve that weakening. On September 10th, the nuclear cabinet decided that Belgium would not send a minister to New York this time, only a non-political delegation, unlike 2009, when the then Foreign Minister Karel De Gucht was present and argued very clearly that one should be present, dialogue and participate when values and principles need to be defended. Does the Belgian political absence have anything to do with Israel's appeal to boycott the conference? What were the reasons for not taking part? What changed compared to 2009, when we did participate? Who was part of the non-political representation? What message did Belgium convey? Is the Belgian political absence consistent with the various commitments made by the government in the government agreement on the fight against racism and the development of a policy of differentiation with regard to Israeli settlements?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u2	Madam President, Minister, you announced not so long ago that our country would excel in the absence of the UN conference on racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and intolerance. This conference took place on 22 September. This decision was justified by the alleged anti-Semitic nature of this conference. However, this anti-Semitic nature results only from the condemnation of the Israeli apartheid regime against the Palestinians by several delegations at previous meetings of that conference. This condemnation of the racist and violent nature of the Israeli state to which the Palestinian people are subjected is widely acknowledged and is, moreover, a documented fact. Human rights organisations in Israel itself state that the repression of the Palestinian population by the Israeli state is related to supremacy. Even the American NGO Human Rights Watch, which is usually not very critical of the Israeli state, has itself published a report condemning the Israeli regime as an apartheid system. The absence of Belgium at this anti-racism conference cannot be justified, especially since Belgium has this year been addressed by a large number of states at the UN Universal Periodic Review on the slowness and weakness of its action against racism in its own country. My questions are as follows. Do you intend to change your attitude towards that conference and also participate in that UN conference in the future? What initiatives has the government taken since the Universal Periodic Review to finally implement the national action plan against racism which the government committed itself to at the first conference in Durban in 2001? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u3	Madam President, Minister, the United Nations Anti-racism Conference took place in New York on 22 September. On Friday 10 September it was confirmed that Belgium would not participate at ministerial level. That is a decision which we deeply regret and on which we have a number of questions. As a result, we hope to gain some insight into your thinking process that has led to this decision. In the communication on this subject, you stated that the conference has become the place where anti-Semitism is raging, but there was the intervention of our country, namely the Deputy Permanent Representative, who condemned anti-Semitic statements and stressed the importance of the fight against racism and made it clear that Belgium will continue to fight for an inclusive society. Then why has it been decided not to send a ministerial delegation? In our view, the conference cannot be traced back to the statements made by some. Why did you communicate rather loudly? There is a discrepancy with the fact that Belgium has intervened. The Deputy Permanent Representative drew attention to several important issues raised during the anti-racism conference and, ultimately, there was even appreciation for the forum and for the importance of the conference itself. How do you explain this discrepancy?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u4	In September 2001, the World Conference Against Racism, Racial Discrimination, Xenophobia and Related Intolerance, known as the Durban Conference, took place in South Africa in Durban. The conference concluded with the adoption of the Durban Declaration and Action Programme, the Durban Declaration and Program of Action. This is a reference document. The Durban Conference was turbulent and an anti-Semitic hex was conducted, including, at the parallel conference of non-governmental organizations, the spread of an anti-Semitic hoax, the so-called Protocols of the Wise Men of Zion. Some countries have left for this reason. Belgium did not leave, but, as rotating President of the European Union, negotiated an agreement with South Africa and Brazil on the final declaration and thus averted the failure of the conference. Durban's final statement refers to anti-Semitism. The Declaration recognises with concern the increasing anti-Semitism and the rise of racial and violent movements that hold discriminatory ideas against Jewish communities. The text also calls on all States to recognise the need to take action against anti-Semitism and to take effective measures to prevent the emergence of violent movements. Such texts referred to here are an expression of intolerance and xenophobia to which the Durban Declaration and the Action Plan refer. Consequently, its dissemination is unequivocally rejected. On the occasion of the 20th anniversary of the Durban Declaration, an event at the highest level took place on 22 September at the opening of the 76th United Nations General Assembly in New York. Belgium, represented by the Deputy Permanent Representative, i.e. not by the Permanent Representative of the Mission, made a statement stating that the previous anti-Semitic statements by some in the context of Durban were unacceptable and strongly condemned. This reference to anti-Semitism in the political declaration was indeed welcomed. The declaration also made it clear that the government decided not to be represented at political level, in order to send a strong message of the rejection of previous anti-Semitic violations. The theme chosen by the UN Member States for this edition was Repair, racial justice and equality for people of African descent. This is an important topic for our country and therefore the government considered it important to send a message during the round tables about initiatives in Belgium, including the current work in this Parliament on our colonial past. The Belgian intervention also highlighted the importance of the fight against racism for our country, with reference to the work at UN level and at Belgian level. Mr De Vriendt, you are referring to a certain discrepancy between the lack of political participation and the fact that we made a statement during the round tables. I think it's the opposite. Through our level of representation, we have made it clear that we could not accept the repeated anti-Semitic statements, but instead of leaving our seat empty or taking part without taking the floor, we have made the choice to communicate about them in our statement. We did it the same way. This was agreed at the core. This government stands for a policy that condemns and actively combats any form of racism and discrimination. That is why we are working hard on a national action plan against racism, which I launched as Prime Minister myself in early 2020 with the convening of an inter-ministerial conference. At that time, I gave the Inter-Ministerial Conference the task of taking the lead in this matter decisively. This should have been completed for some time. I am convinced that my colleague from Equal Opportunities is working hard on this dossier. It is my hope and wish that the plan will be adopted this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u5	Madam Secretary, the core of the Durban Conference and its programme is anti-racism, the impact of colonisation and the transatlantic slave trade. This is a very important issue for the African countries, the Caribbean countries and South America, in short, for the countries of the global South. You have said that this forum is also being used for other matters. Madam Secretary, I wonder why we are politically involved in this? Belgium, led by your party and by Louis Michel, took a leading role in 2001 in making that conference a success. You referred to it, it is thanks to Belgium, South Africa and Brazil that there was an outcome document from the conference. Belgium also helped to organise the 2009 regional conference under the leadership of the liberal parties in the government. Belgium was also present at the Durban Ministerial Conference in 2011. In New York, together with South Africa, Belgium founded the Group of Friends against Racism. Belgium was also European negotiator for the biennial Durban resolution of the G77 drawn by South Africa. Belgium enjoyed international recognition for its political role within the United Nations in the fight against racism. All this was actually done under the leadership of the liberal parties. Now, however, this political legacy is simply pushed aside. We find it particularly regrettable that we have allowed the attention to be distracted from what is really at stake at this conference, namely the fight against racism. You have our support not to distract your attention and defend our legacy. I personally find it regrettable that, under pressure from the right, we are going along with this case. In fact, we are sending out the signal that we are boycotting the fight against racism at international level.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u6	Madam Secretary, I take note of your answer. I am somewhat indignant because it is sad that this government fails to criticize Israeli colonization policy and the Israeli apartheid state. You are mixing the fight against racism with anti-Semitism, which is a pity. If you say that criticism of colonization and apartheid is tantamount to criticism of the Israeli apartheid state, you are in fact directly undermining the fight against the real anti-Semitism. We then find ourselves in an absurd situation in which even Jewish citizens who criticize Israeli settlement policy, colonisation and apartheid are almost themselves accused of anti-Semitism. The Durban Conference is a unique initiative in which Belgium played a leading role. This initiative aims to combat racism and discrimination worldwide, and it is also the only international body that brings together all the countries on this planet on this issue. I hope that in the future our country will show itself more clearly in that conference with regard to the fight against racism and discrimination, in the broadest sense of these two concepts, including general and specific in our own country. During this year's Universal Periodic Review, many countries and human rights organisations pointed out the great work that still needs to be done in our country. We were also told today in the media that the practical tests on the labour market are yet another hollowed-out initiative that exists only on paper, while nothing happens on the ground and nothing changes. It is therefore time that this government finally took action on anti-discrimination and anti-racism in its own country, rather than always having to preach in international fora.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u7	Madam Secretary, first of all, thank you for your reply. In all honesty, I fear that our country has not sent a good signal. Racism and discrimination must always be tackled at the highest possible level. So we must not degrade to another level. That should always be our country's policy, but I fear that you have been guided by the framing of some of the other countries or some of the parties here in your own country. It is not because there is criticism of Israel at a conference that that should be a problem. Criticism of Israel is not anti-Semitism, and I assume that we are in any case in agreement on that, but I think it is very important to emphasise that. Even if anti-Semitic statements were made, what should our reaction be? Is that a reason to stay away? Is that a reason to send someone with a lower degree? No, on the contrary! That is a reason to send a minister who can contradict and tackle that anti-Semitism at the highest level, and who can make it clear that we are not being distracted by it as a country. That we continue to work high on the fight against racism and discrimination. It is a bit like Belgium would stay away from a climate conference, or send someone else to it, if virulent climate skeptics took the floor at that climate conference. So I think that is a very strange way of reasoning. We must fight anti-Semitism, and that is what we do best when we send a minister. So I think we have given a very confusing signal. I do not think that our country has made good use of that. You also know, Madam Minister, that such decisions are always abused by Israel, for example. You know that. We have also seen this, because the publications and the communication have happened. We're getting distracted from our course. However, our compass has been very clear all these years, as Mrs Reynaert said just now. Here there is now a break with the consistent, predictable line of our country. I very much regret that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u8	Madam President, Minister, I am currently faced with the problem of bilocation. I have a question for Minister Vandenbroucke. He's about to answer. I'll have my associate listen to your answer remotely. I apologize for that, but bilocation is something I can't do. I shall confine myself to the questions, because we know the situation and should therefore not explain them anymore. I would like to talk more specifically about the operation we carried out to repatriate people who had a link with Belgium in those very scary days when everything had to go very quickly. We had a committee meeting with four ministers: yourself, Mr De Croo and Mr Mahdi, and Mrs Dedonder. On the basis of what was said then, I would like to ask you the following questions so many weeks later. First of all, how many people were repatriated in total from Afghanistan? How many of these people returned to Belgium? How many people returned to the Netherlands? The same applies to the Dutch operation. How many people have been repatriated by the Netherlands? Secondly, can you divide that number into the four categories identified by Prime Minister De Croo at the committee meeting on 26 August? It concerns the group of people of Belgian nationality and their nuclear families, Afghans who have worked for us or any other foreign power as an interpreter or fixer and their nuclear family, Afghans who, as a result of their previous job, are at risk, for example, as a defender of women's and/or Igbt rights, and finally Afghans with a residence permit who were still in their country of origin. People may also have been repatriated who do not belong to any of these four categories. Please also indicate the size of that group. Finally, Prime Minister De Croo announced at the committee meeting that security screenings were already taking place in Kabul and Islamabad on those who offered for repatriation. Can you tell us whether candidates were rejected on the basis of those screenings and, if so, how many? These are very specific questions and I thank you for the very concrete answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u9	Minister, I will put my questions together in one single speech, as we are participating in a topical debate following the first major debate we had in the joint committees in August. At that meeting, we had already been able to take stock of the sad situation we are witnessing in Afghanistan, thanks to the information obtained by the Minister at that time. I have heard of several elements, either from various sources or from the international press, including the situation of two Belgian nationals who were allegedly injured in the vicinity of Kabul precisely during an attack by the Islamic State. One of them was at the time of writing this question on 1 September at the Kabul hospital. Minister, can you tell us more? The issue of evacuation should also arise. The second part is rather delicate, but the minister has spoken widely about it and I will not dwell on it any more. However, as part of the possible evacuation, unfortunately all our diplomatic talents will have to be deployed with a regime hostile to women, an anti-democratic and terrorist regime, I do not even weigh my words, Madam President. How does Belgium intend to cooperate with these new leaders? What can we expect from the talks to help our compatriots? I will stick to this, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u10	I will support these questions about Afghanistan. I won't give any more introductions. It's already been quoted enough. I'll ask about Belgium's position. As far as the Taliban is concerned, the European Union seems to opt for a policy of engagement, but not recognition, including conditions relating to security, human rights and freedom of the press. Is Belgium in favour of this attitude? How do you estimate the chances that the Taliban will comply with these conditions? How will these conditions be met? Engage, but not recognize is an important attitude I support, but Russia, Pakistan and China indicate that they do not immediately exclude recognition. In addition, the Taliban also ask for speaking time at the UN. What is Belgium's attitude towards engagement, but not recognition? What is Belgium's position on that time at the UN? The European Union has also called for a joint presence. This was announced by EU High Representative Borrell. Is the joint presence also intended to organise the repatriation of the remaining 480 people from Afghanistan, or is it being organised in a different way? An important issue that has been addressed at the UN Human Rights Council is the following. Pakistan's holding of a resolution did not lead to an important vote, namely a UN fact finding mission and a human rights monitoring mechanism, in order to monitor its follow-up on the ground. Is there any evolution in that respect? Is this being discussed at UN level? Has that been discussed at the General Assembly?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u11	Madam Minister, my question is in line with that of the previous speakers, but is specifically about the Belgians who are lagging behind in Afghanistan. There are an estimated 140 people left behind in Afghanistan who are covered by Belgian protection. I believe that we must not abandon these people. You have also explained something about this in the press. You said that we will continue to work with our partners to find solutions for the return of the people who are under Belgian protection, and we are calling for the solutions to be structured and coordinated at European level. Can you confirm that this is 140 people? Is the State Department in contact with those 140 people who are covered by Belgian protection? Have they all indicated that they want to leave the country? Or are there any people who have indicated that they want to stay? What and how is it communicated with these people if they have indicated that they want to leave the country? How can these people rely on Belgian protection? Were those 140 people on the list that was previously recorded? What about the people who were not on that list, but who still want to appeal to Belgian protection? If these people manage to reach a consulate, what consular assistance can they receive? What consular support do they receive? What costs will be reimbursed? Will the Belgian Government enter into negotiations with the new Taliban government through the European partners in order to securely get these people out of the country? Are there any other slopes under investigation? If so, which one? What is the result of the contact with your European counterparts with regard to the repatriation of disadvantaged persons entitled to Belgian protection?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u12	Since this is a topical debate, I would like to use my right to speak to put a specific question to the minister. Qatar has played an important role in mediation between the Taliban and the rest of the world, particularly Western countries. Moreover, the way in which Qatar exercised this role was warmly welcomed, in particular by the United States and France. Do you consider Qatar to be a possible bias in establishing diplomatic relations or in any case finding a form of dialogue with the new Afghan power? If so, have any contacts already been made with Qatar, which could then become the link between Afghanistan and us?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u13	Madam President, Minister, thank you for giving me the floor briefly in this not insignificant topical debate. At the end of August 2021, we had an interesting exchange of views on the situation that had arisen at the time, on repatriations but also on lessons. A great deal has already been said about this, but at the moment I have questions about the financial and humanitarian aid proposed by your fellow Minister Kitir. What's your reaction to that? How can this country guarantee that financial support with a regime like the Taliban at the helm will serve the local population and not support the regime? That doesn't seem unimportant to me. What's your vision on that? As regards future diplomatic relations, the President has already said that they should only be allowed with the moderate group of Baradar. What's your vision on that? How do you achieve this in line with the European Union's vision? Finally, there is the geopolitical dimension of the whole story and the power vacuum that we are now leaving behind in Afghanistan and which is being filled by the Taliban. It is known, however, that they alone will not be able to survive. The regime is also internally torn between clans. This causes great poverty among the population. They will therefore depend on abroad. It looks clearly in the direction of China, Pakistan and Russia. The result is that the West is largely losing its grip in the region. How do you see things evolving? What do you propose as an action plan for the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u14	If there are no further explanations, I am happy to give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u15	During the joint commission with the Prime Minister, the Minister of Defence and the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, we were able to discuss the details of Operation NEO (non-combatant evacuation) Red Kite. As you know, Operation Red Kite ran from August 18th until the end of August, more specifically August 25th for the primary evacuation from Kabul to Islamabad, a safe zone, and August 27th for the secondary evacuation from Islamabad to Melsbroek. With 23 rotations of C-130's of Defense, a total of 1,434 Belgians, European nationals and Afghans flew from Kabul to Islamabad. The count of the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration shows that the Red Kite operation has enabled 1.144 compatriots and their core family, people who have worked for Belgium, people at risk and holders of valid residence permits to travel to our country. The vast majority of them are people of Belgian nationality and their families. For the exact numbers of people per category who have arrived in Belgium, please contact the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration. Since the end of Operation NEO, 35 people who had spontaneously decided to go to Pakistan have been able to return to Belgium. Our embassy is also aware of 126 people who are in Pakistan waiting for a flight to Belgium or for the finalization of their administrative situation: update of the civil state for spouses, Belgian children, applications for visas or family reunification. We need to know that in Pakistan – already before the crisis in Kabul – there are a lot of people who have settled in Pakistan, who have been linked to Belgium or who have arrived in Pakistan before the crisis and who have been there, since the crisis, in their families in Pakistan, waiting for documents. Similarly, some 40 people announced that they had decided to visit Pakistan. These figures can, of course, evolve. Three different flights were chartered by Qatar, allowing a total of 45 Belgians and members of the nuclear family to leave via Doha. Another Belgian had already been able to return to Belgium via Qatar at the end of August. For the moment, this possibility remains irregular and has so far concerned only Belgian nationals and their nuclear families. We remain in close contact with Qatar on other possible flights. For other operations that require significant coordination, the Doha diplomatic post is obviously fully mobilized. Upon their arrival in Doha, these people are subjected to a medical examination organized by the local authorities before they can continue their journey to our country. Currently, according to our information, 442 compatriots, rightholders and individuals are on the known lists in Afghanistan. These include 238 persons of category 1 (Belgen and core families), 45 persons of category 2 (people who worked for Belgium), 63 persons of category 3 (persons who have committed themselves to human rights and the like) and 96 persons of category 4 (holders of a residence permit). Two thirds of these people made themselves known after the NEO operation and many people are unreachable today. Some travel back to Belgium in one way or another without informing us about it. We try to reach them by phone and e-mail, but they are of course not obliged to answer us. It's a very difficult situation from day one. Firstly, there are people who continue to report to the embassy in Islamabad, even after the crisis. We didn't know those people. They're Belgians who just let us know they're in Afghanistan. Secondly, there are people who are not answering our messages. Thirdly, there are people who have left, but do not let us know that they are back in Belgium. So there are no definitive figures. We don't have a list of people who dwindle. That's not how it works. I am convinced that if commercial flights resume, people will leave Afghanistan. However, it is also possible that others will return to Afghanistan. We have for years advised against travelling to Afghanistan and have been advising people to leave the country for years, but our compatriots are not obliged to follow our advice. They're not obliged to report either. Those who do, and whose papers are in order, we follow closely. Of many members of a core family, the administrative situation is unclear and it is first necessary to check the civil status in order to determine whether they are indeed entitled to evacuation. Many people who have signed up and who we have contacted refuse to leave the country if their whole family cannot join them, but that requires papers. A solution is therefore not so easy given the different situations of those concerned. Moreover, several persons do not yet have a right of residence in Belgium and must first apply for a visa. Our post in Islamabad has been strengthened to process those files quickly and efficiently. The deadline for replying to the visa applications depends on the examination by the Foreign Office, which receives the visa applications for a decision. Since the end of the operation at the end of August, Afghan nationals have submitted 193 visa applications to our embassy in Islamabad. All visa applications, including humanitarian visa questions, must be submitted in Islamabad. For more information on the types of visas, please contact the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration The embassy is in contact with these people through the channels that I have already explained to you and whenever a possibility of leaving presents itself, as recently via Qatar, since you will remember that three flights have been organized, all persons who are eligible are contacted. Qualified person, why? Because they have the necessary documents to travel. Persons who have not been identified before, but who now wish to seek assistance to leave Afghanistan and who have the necessary documents, are added to the list of persons to attend after screening. Belgians can, in fact, request consular assistance and help to reach Belgium. This assistance can be practical, logistical, administrative or even financial in some cases. The Consular Code limits consular assistance to Belgians, refugees recognised by Belgium or unrepresented European citizens. The Belgian Embassy in Pakistan can facilitate the administrative crossing of the border to Pakistan for persons who have voluntarily decided to leave by road and who are Belgian, nuclear families, holders of a valid Belgian residence permit or a valid Belgian visa, who had already applied for a visa and obtained an agreement from the Aliens Office or were already registered at the time of Operation NEO on the Category II or III lists and are going to apply for a visa in Islamabad. The road trip is dangerous, as we recall. The people who undertake it have therefore done so and are doing so under their own responsibility. That's not advice we're giving. We remain in contact with our European partners to monitor the situation and the opportunities for people who want to leave Afghanistan. In the long run, the resumption of commercial flights, as I have discussed, to Pakistan or to other countries, should allow others to leave Afghanistan. I recall the importance of following safety advice and advice to travellers at all times, which applies to compatriots travelling to distant or nearer countries. I would also point out that the travel advice for Afghanistan has been very negative for years and was very negative before the fall of Kabul. There have been clear calls to leave Afghanistan as soon as possible. In view of the above figures, few have taken these calls into account. I understand, because of the contacts I have with my colleagues, in any case for some countries, that many are facing similar problems. As for the Belgian citizen who was allegedly shot and wounded at Kabul airport, we kept in touch with him. He is always with his family and is medically monitored. The circumstances of the incident remain unclear to date. There was also another injured man who was able to continue his journey and returned. Does Belgium intend to cooperate with the Taliban with regard to the evacuation of fixers by sending lists of names? Belgium has not provided the Taliban with a list of names of persons who may be repatriated and does not intend to do so. That is not how we function. With regard to the other questions on the possible admission of fixed persons, this is the competence of Secretary of State Mahdi. As far as security screening is concerned, I can confirm that it was an essential element of the evacuation and was carried out with regard to all persons claiming assistance, especially in the first part of the evacuation. Unlike other countries, we did not take people on our planes who were not on the list. We didn't let that happen. However, the fact that someone is on the OCAD list does not mean that we can deny them access to our country. There are hundreds of people on the OCAD list. They have freedom of movement in our country. One doesn't stop the other. Indeed, the EU has set out a number of criteria for the recognition of the Taliban that we would like to see guaranteed in order to evaluate our possible political relationship vis-à-vis a benchmark. Those criteria are not absolute conditions, but they are a benchmark to evaluate our relationship with the Taliban and the level of engagement. It is a commitment that Afghanistan will not be used as a base for the export of terrorism to other countries and respect for human rights, in particular women's rights, the rule of law and the freedom of the media. Other issues include the creation of an inclusive and representative transitional government through negotiation, free access to humanitarian aid and the free departure of foreigners and Afghans who are at risk and wish to leave the country. Indeed, we will not give the Taliban international legitimacy on their terms without guarantee of the foreign situation. That is the starting point of our consideration of the Taliban regime. In this context, Belgium supports the establishment of a United Nations fact-finding mechanism. In the same spirit, we have supported the extension of the UN observation mission to Afghanistan and we are also in favour of the minimal European presence on the ground. I have also asked several times to coordinate the evacuation of the remaining Belgians and other European compatriots from the country. The recognition of the Taliban at UN level is a decision to be taken by the UN Committee on Credentials, which includes China, Russia and the United States. The next meeting of this Committee will take place in November. Until then, the status quo is likely to be maintained. The Embassy of Afghanistan and its staff are still considered to be the official representatives of Afghanistan to our country. We did not receive an application for certification from the new regime in place. A possible accreditation of representatives will have to be assessed on the basis of the situation at the time of submission of the application. It will also be the subject of consultations with our European partners. One question concerned relations with Qatar. You notice that Qatar has an open channel of communication with the Taliban as it managed to organize flights from Kabul to Doha. I think this really has to do with the fact that for a long time, intra-Afghan negotiations took place in Doha, which allowed the Qatari authorities to develop knowledge of the various actors and open the channels in a more assertive way than for other countries. Of course, we thank Qatar for taking into consideration our Belgians and right-holders for a departure. Does that make it the preferred partner to discuss with the Taliban? My approach would not be to limit entry points. It should be noted that when we were in New York, we had an informal meeting with European colleagues, where we were also talking about creating a European platform with other countries in the region to see how to address Afghanistan's future policy and examine the situation as there are significant humanitarian emergencies. The meeting could not be held at the New York level. There was a willingness to organize something in New York with some partners in the region. The meeting could not be organised but from the various bilateral contacts I have had, there is a willingness of the region to take a language with Europe to see how to address the problems. We must not fool ourselves, Afghanistan is surrounded by different countries, including Pakistan, where we have an embassy. Pakistan also helped us a lot to evacuate. It must be remembered, but there is also China with which we do not always share all our political objectives. That said, it is an important country in the region with which we will have to speak to assess how the situation in Afghanistan needs to be managed. Why do I say that? I think it would be wrong to consider that the European Union will work in isolation and in regional retreat – since we are not neighbours to that country – without taking into account the needs, aspirations and other influences that exist on the spot – in Pakistan, Qatar or China. It will be necessary to coordinate and discuss to see what can be assured. Security concerns are expressed. We have talked a lot about the issue of human rights, but little has been done about security, which can present negative developments in Afghanistan, as well as migration – a key theme for the surrounding countries. It should be noted that Afghanistan's neighbours are already hosting a large number of refugees and that they do not wish to see the situation deteriorate at this stage. As far as the humanitarian aspect is concerned, it falls within the competence of my colleague Kitir. Having said that, it is independent of the governments in place, as it directly affects the population, whose survival we wish. The risk of famine is enormous in Afghanistan, with consequences in terms of migration, violence and security. All these problems are therefore entangled. We are trying to manage this extremely complex situation at best, first at the European level and then at the international level. Moreover, no NATO Member State will bilaterally recognise the regime without prior consultation with the other countries. That's for this overview.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u16	Madam Minister, I had just limited myself to the question I had put. I shall add one more question. It's an actua debate, so I think there's room for that. Can you tell us what information you have received from our embassy in Islamabad in the days and weeks prior to the takeover by the Taliban? How and how was the situation assessed in view of the acute nature of the repatriation operation? When did your services start preparing and implementing the evacuation?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u17	Thank you, Minister, for responding very well with the information we were waiting for. I have listened with great attention to this always very difficult situation. In this region, which already had a multitude of problems, we will have to deal with this delicate situation as a terrorist regime. It is in an already very fragile region. We will of course observe what will happen tomorrow in the Committee on External Relations. We will also address an element of crucial importance: the violation of human rights by the Taliban, including the status of women.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u18	Madam Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive and detailed answer, including my questions. It seems to me to be a good thing that, together with or without the European partners, we are talking to the Taliban government in order to be able to safely evacuate the Belgians who are still in prison. The land-based option is clearly life-threatening. We must therefore make it clear to those concerned that this country option is only at their own risk. Thank you also for the humanitarian aid for which the government is releasing funds. The United Nations estimates that one million children are at risk of starvation. The money that has been released goes to the UN programmes, which means that there is material aid and children do not have to die of starvation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u19	Madam Minister, I too would like to thank you for your rather full reply. I am pleased to hear that the European Union also says that we must be present on the ground. We must not make the same mistake as we did at the time in Syria or Iraq. It is necessary to be present on the premises to see how the situation evolves, however limited that presence may be. It is also crucial that we can organise the fact-finding mission on human rights. Hopefully the Taliban will create that openness and be prepared to allow such a mission. The reports that reach us now, whether they are about women's rights activists, sports or the number of women in the government (zero), are worrying. It is therefore a good thing that the benchmark, which is quite complete, is created. You listed the different elements. I think they're all equally essential. That is what we must continue to see. Engage, but not recognize is really the best strategy right now. This government seems to support it, together with the EU and, as you mentioned earlier, NATO. Bilateral recognition would only further destabilise the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u20	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Your answer was very comprehensive. We will certainly read it carefully again. I am pleased to hear you say that you want to follow closely how the power vacuum is filled. This is crucial in terms of geopolitical and defence matters. In the Committee on Defence, we will also be discussing this in the coming months, I fear. As far as humanitarian aid is concerned, you say that it is intended to reach the local population. That sounds pretty weedy to me! The question I asked, however, of course implies that the risk is very high that it will not happen. We have seen the same happen to the Palestinian people, and I would like to warn you that we have no guarantee whatsoever that we will not support the regime on the ground through our humanitarian aid. So I made that question out of concern. I hope that's taken away.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u21	Mr De Roover, the embassy in Islamabad is competent for Kabul and has always followed the situation in Afghanistan very closely. I want to make it very clear that from July onwards, the embassy called people who knew they were present in Afghanistan three times with the message that the situation was dangerous and that they would better leave the country. They were also asked if they needed help. You will remember that on 7 August we clearly stated that anyone who was still present in Afghanistan had to leave the country. On Saturday 14 August, the day before Kabul was taken by the Taliban, there were 34 Belgian inhabitants of Afghanistan registered at our embassy, and we knew about fifteen persons the passage. On that day, all these people were contacted and out of the 15 people answered the passage three of whom one person said he might need help. On Sunday there were 47 Belgians and 20 Afghans. I had a debrief with the Ambassador in Islamabad, Mr Bronchain, a man with a lot of experience who had already experienced similar evacuations in Africa. He told me he'd never seen anything like it. When he saw on Sunday that the number was rising so quickly, he contacted us to say that the situation was not as expected and that there were many more people present in Afghanistan. My cabinet immediately contacted Defence in an informal manner with the announcement that until then we thought we would use the aircraft of our European colleagues, who had a lot of people on the ground, but that there would probably be a need for more aircraft, because more and more people came forward about whom we had no knowledge whatsoever. We had to say again that there was no obligation to report. It is not an obligation; people do what they want or what they think they should do. That made it very difficult for us to organise a rescue operation. Eventually, when we saw it going in a different direction, we contacted the Defense Department that same day. A proposal was made on Monday: if a repatriation was needed, there would be a C-130. In short, the story you know. We have already talked about this. On Monday afternoon, the heart of the matter took the decision to organise this repatriation. Everything was organized very quickly. That was done on the basis of the information we had at the time. It's gonna change today, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u22	Madam Minister, we have already asked a question to the Minister of Justice about other aspects of Pegasus, but there is also an important part of foreign affairs. The Pegasus investigation revealed that advanced Israeli espionage software, licensed to governments to track down terrorists and criminals, has been used to hack smartphones from among others journalists and human rights activists worldwide. Among other things, it is almost certain that Morocco and Rwanda used this software for unauthorized espionage. However, research carried out by the journalist collective Forbidden Stories, in collaboration with Le Soir and Knack, showed that it also spied on human rights activists and journalists. Forbidden Stories received a list of 50,000 phone numbers that NSO Group customers would have selected as a target for cyber espionage. There were also over 600 numbers of politicians and government officials on the list, including a dozen Belgian mobile numbers according to Knack and Le Soir. The security services and the police have not yet responded to the investigation and NSO questions the evidence of the journalists. Some identified phones were further investigated with the help of Amnesty International Security Lab. Madam Secretary, I have a number of very specific questions. First of all, what is your reaction to this news? Since when have you been aware of this? Secondly, is there any more information about the impact on Belgian citizens, both in Belgium and abroad? Thirdly, what role does the National Security Authority take in this dossier? Fourthly, in what way do you take part in the follow-up to this dossier, in cooperation with the other relevant ministers and institutions? Fifthly, what do you think is the impact of these revelations on Belgian diplomatic relations with Rwanda, Morocco and Israel? Sixthly, other countries are also suspected of having made lawful use of this software, including Mexico, Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, Hungary, India, the United Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia and Bahrain. How will this information be taken into account in order to protect Belgian citizens, on the one hand, and in the context of diplomatic relations, on the other? Finally, what measures will be taken to prevent espionage during confidential conversations with you or with your cabinet in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u23	Madam Minister, Mr Van Hecke has already referred to the investigation of the journalist collective Forbidden Stories. Surely it is a new element in our international relations that we can access our passwords, texts, photos, contact lists and location data from other powers. Microphone and camera can be switched on at any time. I think that advanced technology is new in the diplomatic relations. This is something on which international agreements must be made. You were also a victim in the case with Paul Rusesabagina and the contact with his daughter. I've been contacted about that, too. I was probably bugged, too. I think that is an infringement, not only in my political work but also in my personal life. This can also lead to the imposition of pressure on contacts. We absolutely must avoid being able to do our job freely. Also well-known Belgian politicians such as Charles Michel and Louis Michel would have had to deal with this in Morocco. In France, the presence of Pegasus tracks on smartphones by journalists is confirmed, including in Belgium. This happened, among other things, to Peter Verlinden, who was informed about this by military intelligence. Can you confirm this story of espionage software among politicians, journalists and activists? Are Belgians involved in this too? Then who is it about? Do you have any information on how many citizens and which regimes are involved? Can you confirm that Morocco has deployed this with our leading politicians Charles Michel and Louis Michel? I would also like to hear more about the conversation with Carine Kanimba. Do you confirm that? Can you give a list of countries you suspect are using this software to spy on Belgian citizens? What implications does that have on our diplomatic relations?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u24	Madam President, your questions are very extensive, but this is about the ongoing investigation. I would therefore like to refer to the answer given by the Minister of Justice at the committee on 22 September 2021. With regard to spying on Mrs Kanimba's phone, it is clear that, if the information appears to be correct, it is unacceptable that conversations are being monitored by any country. At the present stage, the issue has been raised with the Israeli and Rwandan ambassadors on the basis of information in the press. Their governments have also responded publicly to the publication. You will understand, therefore, that I cannot go any further on this at this stage. We are awaiting the results of the ongoing investigation, including in other countries which might have been guilty of these practices. It is too early to say that this will have an impact on our bilateral relations. About the conversation with Paul Rusesabagina's family, I can inform you that no confidential information will be discussed during our conversations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u25	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your reply, which is rather limited and rather short. I understand that the current investigation does not allow you to go into more detail on a number of aspects. However, I am concerned and I am not alone. It is terrifying that such technology is being used by countries and regimes against journalists and politicians in our country. I expect a strong signal from the government. Of course, you have to be sure. I agree with that. However, the government must also be able to send out a very strong signal and act decisively if it turns out that certain regimes and countries use such techniques in our country. That's the appeal to the government. I also asked your colleague Van Quickenborne. The government must be very strict and forceful here. I therefore hope that the results of the study will be known very soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u26	Thank you, Madam Minister, for your reply, in which you cannot be complete for the sake of the investigation, which I naturally understand. I heard you say that it would be unacceptable if it were true, and indeed it is. We must make it clear in our diplomatic relations the importance of cyber security and we must also make European agreements on it. It is new to many politicians that we too, at our level as a Member of Parliament, have become a target. This means that we can be intimidated or extorted, which is unacceptable. My fear is that in this way we will no longer dare to denounce certain things. That is not the case for me personally, but it is still dangerous what is happening today. I hope, therefore, that we will pay a great deal of attention to this, but we will, of course, await the investigation and will question you again at that time. In any case, I found it reassuring that you said that it is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u27	Madam Minister, during the parliamentary recess I was contacted by several Belgians abroad, including Thailand. Let me outline the situation in mid-July. The number of infections in Thailand was dramatic and health services and hospitals could not cope with the influx of infected seriously ill people. We've all seen the footage of people literally dying on the street. The vaccinations were equally disastrous because they simply did not order enough vaccines. That is not your responsibility, of course, but the approximately 3,000 Belgians living there were hopeless. They tried to touch a vaccine in all kinds of ways, the only way to save their lives. In Thailand itself, that was not possible and so they were quite right to address themselves to the embassy. They tried to wake people up and at first they were told that they could come to Belgium for a vaccine. The flight was priceless for those people, of course. Since they weren't vaccinated, they also had to quarantine for two weeks, with additional hotel costs. That was priceless and the advice was also downright dangerous. After all, unvaccinated people were brought here at a time when there was a travel ban everywhere. Then they took matters into their own hands and started calling me, too. We've contacted the embassy and your services. We were told very often that the possibilities were explored. So we were sent from the locker to the wall. After almost two months they were told that they could get an AstraZeneca vaccine of Chinese make because 1,000 were reserved for them in Thai hospitals. Madam Minister, you are undoubtedly aware that this Asian vaccine is not recognised by Europe. Those people were really distraught and they're mostly very disappointed. They feel abandoned by Belgium and unfortunately I cannot really blame them. Two months earlier, France and Great Britain had already flown in vaccines for all their nationals on the spot. They had made a deal with the local hospitals and all the French and British who wanted to be vaccinated. So the protocol of how and what to do was there. It was just copy-pastes. You better steal good than think of something bad. Meanwhile, Belgians have died on the spot, at least one person I know, hence perhaps my emotion. This has not only happened in Thailand, several Belgians have died abroad from COOVID-19, waiting for a vaccine. Even now there are Belgians in international hospitals in intensive care, because they don't get a vaccine. I find that particularly distressing. We're sending vaccines to Vietnam, Tunisia, Uganda. That is very good, because we always insist on the importance of international solidarity. This solidarity is certainly necessary in order to combat the corona pandemic. We will not be safe until everyone is safe, but Belgium still has a duty to protect its nationals, regardless of whether they are resident in the country or abroad. It is our duty to ensure that Belgians also have access to a vaccine abroad. If the country of residence doesn't make that possible, our embassies and consulates must take action on the ground. Unfortunately, we have found that not all embassies are equally willing to act immediately. Madam Secretary, I'm very sorry to have to say it, it really shocked me, we've been playing with lives. Have you been informed by your services of the vaccination problems of Belgians in third countries such as Thailand? If so, what instructions have you given your services and the relevant embassies to resolve this problem immediately? If not, what will you instruct your services and the embassies concerned to solve this problem immediately? Are any vaccines being delivered to Belgian expats? Have you ordered your services to check how many Belgians are still experiencing problems getting a vaccine abroad? Do you know if and when the Asian AstraZeneca vaccine will be approved in Belgium and/or Europe?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u28	Madam President, Mrs Liekens, first of all I would like to stress that millions have died in this corona pandemic. That is a pity for anyone who is directly or indirectly involved. Whether people stay in Belgium, are Belgian or have another nationality: everyone counts, everyone is important. I don't want to give the impression that there are people who are more important than others. We do our best to help everyone in this territory, as well as Belgian nationals abroad. But not only them, we are also involved in the COVAX initiative to be able to supply vaccines in all countries. Our country has exported 430 million vaccines to the rest of the world. Belgium is a country of vaccine production. I absolutely want to make that point: everyone, both in Belgium and abroad, has done their best to help everyone. Of course one has to work with reality on the ground. With regard to the vaccination of Belgians abroad against COVID-19, I am fully aware of the difficult situation in which some of my countrymen are abroad if they want to be vaccinated. Although the situation is rapidly evolving in many countries, including Thailand. We have, as you know, ensured that Belgians living abroad had at least the opportunity to be vaccinated in Belgium. Sending vaccines abroad to vaccinate nationals of other countries is a complex operation, which requires close cooperation with the local authorities, because it involves many aspects of local health policy, such as the local validity of the vaccine and the legal responsibility for whom the vaccine will be administered. At the same time, together with some posts abroad, we continue to seek a solution for Belgians who cannot travel to our country and who find it difficult to get vaccinated on the spot. To return to the example of Thailand, both by the Thai Embassy in Brussels and by the authorities in Bangkok, several steps have been taken to ensure that our most vulnerable Belgian compatriots are given priority access and, in general, that the foreign citizens residing there are given more equal access. For this we have worked with our European and like-minded partners. Contacts have also been made with the various hospitals to facilitate the procedures for our Belgian compatriots. These efforts are paying off. Other steps are being taken to assist our fellow countrymen as best they can. The posts concerned will continue to be fully mobilised on this issue. It is the responsibility of local authorities to organise the vaccination of persons on their territory. The foreign Belgian population living in 146 countries, registered in the consular population register, has been able to pre-register since early June 2021 for vaccination in Belgium. Returners also had the opportunity to vaccinate. Belgians living in a country working with the same types of vaccines as in the Belgian vaccination campaign were able to pre-register between 1 and 22 July. On 23 September 3,940 people were pre-registered for vaccination in Belgium. Of these, 1,669 persons were effectively vaccinated in the military hospital of Lower Over Heembeek. I have no figures from Belgians who were vaccinated through local campaigns abroad. You also had a question about the approval of vaccines. I will have it examined at the moment and will give you the answer before the end of our sitting.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u29	Madam Secretary, I apologise if I'm coming from the corner very brightly, but the story has taken hold of me very much. It is nice that we want to help so many people worldwide with COVAX. And, of course, it was a difficult period and the problem of Afghanistan came between them, which made your services very busy. However, I have the impression that we could have done a little more at first, even though the dossier is very complex. I was in contact with France in the beginning, among others, and perhaps it is an idea to cooperate even more with other countries in the future. You say you already do. We can only learn from the past what can be better.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u30	Madam Secretary, the persecution of Christians is unfortunately increasing worldwide. In Turkey too, Christians and their communities are all too often endorsed and persecuted. I have questioned you and your predecessor on several occasions in the past. For example, the inhabitants of Tur Abdin in south-east Turkey, where the last Assyrian-Chaldaean inhabitants mainly live, have recently been more often targeted by violent violence, threats, intimidation and harassment by the Turkish government. In August, a man was murdered in a very cold-blooded manner in his house with a bullet in the head and three in the abdomen. Meanwhile, the counter stands at 71 Christian victims who have been murdered in Tur Abdin since 1980. No one was ever arrested or convicted for these murders. Are you familiar with these gross violations of human rights by the Turkish government against various Christian communities in Turkey? Are you aware of the incident mentioned above? What is the government's attitude to this Turkish aggression? Will you address the violations of the human rights of Christian minorities in this region to the Turkish Ambassador? Finally, have you had contact with your European colleagues on this matter? If so, what was the result of this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u31	Mrs Samyn the case to which you refer concerns the murder on 9 August of an Assyrian man in his house in the village of Dibek near the Mor Yakup monastery in the Nusaybin district of Tur Abdin. At this stage, there would be no information on the perpetrator or the circumstances of this murder which has caused great concern in the community. An investigation is under way. Several Assyrian associations based in Europe have issued a press release calling for an investigation into the murder. They claim that this murder is reminiscent of other recent incidents and of the unsolved murders of the 1990s. As a reminder, the political instability and armed conflict between the Turkish army and the PKK in the 1990s forced thousands of people to leave their villages. Many citizens were the victims of forced disappearances or murder by the conflict parties. In addition, a number of murders and disappearances of members of the Assyrian communities were in fact the work of ethnic Turkish or ethnic Kurdish citizens who wished to seize their land. This was also documented in reports from human rights organisations. The worst affected areas were mainly the southeastern and eastern provinces of Turkey. Kurds, but also members of religious minorities living in this region, were the first victims. These murders and forced disappearances have so far been largely unpunished. However, the current situation is different and the intensity of the conflicts between the PKK and the Turkish security forces in the south-east of Turkey has declined significantly. Moreover, I do not have any indication that Christian minorities are directly targeted by the Turkish authorities or that crimes against them are not the subject of an investigation. In these circumstances, I cannot pronounce or speculate on the responsibility for the murder in Dibek. As indicated in the reply to your questions of November 2020 and May 2021, I believe that the issue of Christian minorities in Turkey cannot in principle be separated from the protection of minorities and respect for human rights in general in Turkey. The diplomatic posts concerned follow closely the issues, together with the services of the Department of Foreign Affairs in Brussels. Cases are regularly discussed with the Turkish authorities at European, multi- and bilateral level.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u32	The number of reports from Turkey on atrocities, brutal violence, threats, intimidation and harassment, in particular by the Turkish authorities, concerning the Assyrian Christians, is alarming. The situation is sad: since 1980 71 Turkish Christians have been murdered, and it is appalling that even the government does not bother to look for those responsible for these crimes. For the families of the victims that is not only a permanent scar, but they remain in powerlessness, knowing that in a few months the same will happen again.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u33	Minister, last May, I was asking you a written question about the TPP in Australia, the "Work Holiday Program" which allows you to travel or work in the ocean country without having to find an employer before leaving. I already recalled at the time that in France, since 1 July 2019, the age limit for granting visas had increased from 30 to 35 years, under the leadership of the Australian Department of Immigration. In Belgium, the age limit is still 30 years. My question at the time concerned harmonization between the two countries, or in any case the presence of a desire to raise the age, like our French neighbours. In your answer, you asked me to question the ministers in charge of the interior, employment and social affairs. In the course of August, I had obviously listened to you and questioned your colleagues. I have received a reply from the Minister of Economy and Labour, Pierre-Yves Dermagne, who reminds me this time that "the initiative to negotiate the cooperation agreement and to adapt the law belongs to my colleague the Minister of Foreign Affairs". Madam Minister, I would therefore like to come back to you with this question. I have been arrested by many people, including friends who have been able to benefit from this PVT. Would it be possible to review the bilateral agreement between Belgium and Australia on the TPP in order to harmonise the age criterion on the basis, inter alia, of the recent French model?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u34	Thank you for your question. The agreement is referred to as the Work Holiday Programme. That's a nice name. You will have noticed that it is first vacation, and then work. I like it. There is indeed a PVT programme between Belgium and Australia. It was concluded in 2002 and entered into force in 2004. It is true that on 31 May last I replied that this question could be addressed to my colleagues from the Interior, Employment and Social Affairs, because it is under this constellation of competences that the bilateral agreement was negotiated more than twenty years ago; it is these competences which are concerned by this agreement, since it is about access to the territory, a social affairs aspect and a employment aspect. It is true that at the time of the negotiation of the agreement, the Directorate-General for Consular Affairs of Foreign Affairs included a service that followed social affairs in their international dimension. Since then, competences have evolved; questions on international labour and social security affairs are addressed directly to the relevant ministers according to the areas concerned. We're not going to have fun throwing the ball away forever. This is unbearable for parliamentarians; this is not the first time this has happened in this committee. I'm being asked questions that are actually handled technically by other firms. I do not want to interfere in the affairs of my colleagues, but from experience I know that it is deeply unpleasant for parliamentarians to see that ministers are turning their attention to the ball. Besides, as they say in good Belgian, you know I have a boentje for Australia. This has been going on for 20 years now. I therefore find that this question is not uninteresting. I will therefore ask my office to speak directly to the appropriate minister to see what needs to be done to move this forward. For information, I can also tell you that Australia has indeed established Holiday Programs Working with 19 countries including Belgium. The age limit set in these agreements is still 30 years, except for France, Ireland and Canada for which the age limit has been set at 35. You can see that we are not the lame duck or the exception to the rule. I therefore undertake to ask my team to contact directly the minister in charge as well as the Minister of the Interior to see what needs to be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u35	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I imagine it must also be annoying for you that questions come back to you tirelessly when they do not fall within your competence. In any case, I note that you are going to act proactively by asking your colleagues to take stock of the situation. As I was telling you, I was contacted by the one-page social media manager entitled "The Belgians in Australia", which brings together thousands of Belgians in Australia. I was actually blown that you had a special love for Australia. In any event, the persons concerned asked me about, among other things, this age limit and asked me if any initiative could be taken in this regard. So I will not fail to come back to you by means of a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u36	Madam President, Madam Minister, the agenda for the European Council's work over the next six months focuses in particular on the European Union's relations with its foreign partners, and in particular China. On 25 June, Charles Michel, President of the European Council, unveiled the schedule of work. It mentions an informal dinner of the 27 on China to be held on 5 October in Slovenia. The European Union faces various internal and external challenges. The rise of China's economy and its strategic ambition are among the challenges facing the European Union. The emergency is in order. Minister, is there already an established roadmap or any other document that will be presented or discussed at the informal dinner that is being discussed? What do you think are the major challenges that Belgium and the European Union are facing today vis-à-vis China? Can you provide us with information on the establishment of a European strategy within this framework?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u37	Madam President, unfortunately this is not about Australia. We'll see about that later, who knows? I've got a bone for that, too. It's about China. The President of the European Commission, Mrs von der Leyen, discussed relations between the European Union and China in her State of the Union last week. She has announced a number of issues, including a kind of European counter-attack to infrastructure projects by the Chinese Belt and Road Initiative. However, she has referred to a plan to counter the global race for microchips. After all, we all know that there is a problem with the chips that currently prevent cars from being manufactured. It also wants to stop imports of goods made with forced labour, etc. These are a number of initiatives being taken at European level. In addition, China's responsibility in the fight against climate change has, quite rightly, been pointed out. We hear very nice words about this from China, but so far very few concrete actions have been followed. We also have the European strategy for the Indo-Pacific region, and so on. A number of initiatives are on the rise at European level, but the question here is what Belgium's position is on China. What is the position that Belgium will generally take in its relations with China? How do you evaluate the statements made by the President of the European Commission von der Leyen and the plans made in connection with future relations with China? What bottlenecks and opportunities do you see here? Finally, we cannot deny that there is an increasing Chinese influence on the European continent and not always in the positive sense. I am thinking, for example, of espionage practices and others. Are there any consultations scheduled in addition to the consultations that will take place on 5 October in order to see how we can work together with our fellow Members?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u38	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in reply to the question on relations between China and the European Union, I can first confirm to you that this is a subject that is high on the European agenda, as evidenced by the speech of the President of the Commission of 15 September 2021. As you said, the topic will be put on the agenda of an informal leaders' meeting on October 5, 2021. Precisely, no roadmap has been shared at this stage. This does not mean that this will not be the case, but, in any case, at this stage, there has been nothing. However, the question of relations between China and the European Union was raised at the informal meeting of foreign ministers in early September in Slovenia, which reaffirmed the importance of European unity. This was an informal meeting. As you know, in informal meetings we discuss issues and, of course, report on our political and strategic preferences for the country, but no formal conclusions are reached. China's major challenges are widely known: lack of reciprocity at the economic and commercial level, cyber threat, misinformation, growing enslativity on the international scene, and an alternative view of human rights – the least we can say –. The EU and Belgium are aware of these challenges and of the need to respond strategically to them. However, the EU already has a clear strategic framework for China, namely the 2016 EU Strategy updated by the March 2019 Joint Communication. The latter defines China as a cooperation partner, economic competitor and systemic rival. This strategic framework is still up to date. The EU must be realistic and pragmatic, because China will remain assertive and probably more assertive. That is why we need to act selectively on issues such as climate change, Myanmar, Afghanistan, for which consultation is needed. At the same time, we must continue to defend our values and human rights with determination. We must maintain dialogue, but we must also strengthen the EU itself and its leverage. This implies, of course, strengthening Europe's strategy autonomy and implementing the EU strategy for the Indo-Pacific, which identifies the main areas of cooperation to be developed with the countries between the east coast of Africa and the Pacific islands. With regard to the triangle formed by Europe, China and the United States, we also had the opportunity not so long ago to talk about the Indo-Pacific and to confirm the need for Europe to strengthen itself. The United States is not waiting for us and China is also more assertive. In a triangle, of course, we are not alone with three, but in that triangle, the European pillar really needs to be strengthened. I am thinking here of strategy autonomy and another policy that should be developed at European level.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u39	Madam Minister, thank you for this information. I assume that a roadmap will be communicated quickly. Your comments and Mrs von der Leyen's speech on the state of the Union suggest that there is a real awareness in Europe of the need to act and not be dependent on China's power over a range of raw materials that Europe needs, in particular for digitalisation and other very important issues. Thank you for your determination. We will follow this file with interest.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u40	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Pragmatism, you say. We will indeed have to demonstrate pragmatism. We cannot ignore it, China is a very important economic partner for our country. On the other hand, there are a lot of questions that we can put. You yourself referred to human rights violations. I am thinking, for example, of everything related to intellectual property rights. I know several entrepreneurs in Flanders who deliberately choose not to do business with China, because they are afraid that their intellectual property might be lost by espionage. In short, that is what it is all about. We must indeed demonstrate pragmatism. You said China is an economic competitor and a systemic rival. That's right. I heard about the relationship with China next adadium: we have to work together where we can, but push back where we have to. Dialogue and toughness, is a perfect summary of the relationship we need to maintain with China. Perhaps one more thing, you referred to European strategic autonomy. I suppose you mean open strategic autonomy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u41	Madam Minister, my question about the Northern Ireland Protocol is the result of a discussion we had earlier in our committee with the British Ambassador and of what we were able to read in the press afterwards. Part of the Brexit deal that has been negotiated for a very long time is the Northern Irish protocol. This is a very important protocol, because it must help to protect the European internal market. The aim is to prevent goods from Northern Ireland from entering the European Union without control. That is why border controls were introduced between Northern Ireland and the United Kingdom. However, we now see that the United Kingdom does not comply with these controls. At present, the country still enjoys a grace period, in which the protocol is, in a manner of speaking, slightly suspended. That grace period would be renewed. This is an agreement which is less than a year old, whereas the United Kingdom is already insisting on amending it. That is very unfortunate and very special. Proposals would have been put forward by the United Kingdom to the European Commission on the amendments it would like to make to that Protocol, for example to provide for exceptions to the control of certain goods. Last but not least, they also want to touch on the jurisdiction of the Court of Justice. They want to deny the Court jurisdiction over the interpretation and application of the Protocol. That seems to me to be a very dangerous path to take, because the Court of Justice is just our defender and the one to monitor the uniform application of European law within the European Union. These proposals are therefore on the table of the European Commission. Every change in the Northern Ireland protocol..... everyone agrees on that, I think..... can restore the sensitivities between Ireland and Northern Ireland....................................................................................................................................................................................................... The Good Friday chord is very sensitive: every point and every comma in it is important. Amendments to this agreement through the Northern Ireland protocol could set the whole thing on fire, I'm afraid. Hence my very specific questions to you, Madam Secretary. What is Belgium's position on this dossier? Does Belgium take the view that the protocol remains as it is, or does Belgium say that any changes can be made to it? What is the position, for example, on the proposal before the European Commission? Has the United Kingdom recently indicated that it would like, for example, to extend the grace period again or that it would like to invoke Article 16, which is the unilateral withdrawal of the protocol?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u42	Madam Minister, Mr Van Bossuyt has outlined the situation and the sensitivities very well. On the one hand, we wanted to safeguard the internal market and, on the other hand, we did not want to draw a hard line between Northern Ireland and Ireland, but in the meantime other sensitivities have emerged as a result of the protocol. The border controls between Northern Ireland and the United Kingdom are, of course, mainly political problems. The Unionists say that they are once again one with Ireland, which they absolutely do not want. For the UK, it is a very big political problem, which it itself created by the Brexit, and there are other problems ahead, including in Scotland. The UK is now threatening to call on Article 16 to blow up the agreement and ensure that Europe would make concessions on the protocol. The UK has developed a comment paper with several questions and has also made one-sided extensions: in March, the period was extended without border controls and now it has been announced again. In the meantime, the European Commission has also started procedures, which have been frozen again. What's our attitude in this? It is a threat to our internal market. The UK only wants the benefits and not the disadvantages of Brexit. We must be strong and perhaps look for practical solutions, but above all preserve the single market, without too many new political problems emerging, which the UK, of course, has brought upon itself.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u43	Before I answer, I would like to know if you have any questions about access to UK territory for EU citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u44	That was indeed stated in the written record of my question. You may reply briefly or give me the answer in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u45	As you know, the negotiations on the United Kingdom's withdrawal agreement from the European Union and the protocol on Northern Ireland have taken many months. The agreement provides a balanced framework aimed at maintaining the internal market and the customs union while maintaining stability and peace in Northern Ireland. Belgium wishes this agreement to be fully implemented. Consequently, Belgium regrets that the UK is avoiding the full and correct implementation of this Protocol. You yourself rightly referred to the one-sided extension of a previously agreed postponement and grace period. The European Commission took note of this on behalf of the EU. The vote is not taken. Meanwhile, the UK has officially notified the EU of its intention to negotiate this protocol. In the relevant policy document, the UK re-examines the role of the European Court of Justice as the ultimate authority on the application of EU law in Northern Ireland. The UK is also threatening to suspend implementation on the basis of Article 16 to an even greater extent if the EU is not prepared to do so. The UK has not actually done this yet. Belgium supports the balanced response of the European Commission, which was forwarded to the Member States in the Council. In response to the refusal to implement the protocol correctly and fully and to keep pressure on the UK, the European Commission is launching two infringement proceedings. One aims at arbitration, whereby a number of cases can ultimately be referred to the European Court of Justice. The other aims to counter-measures. In order to give a mutually agreed solution, the European Commission has suspended this procedure for the time being. At this stage, it remains that way. The EU refuses to negotiate the protocol, but the Commission is working on a package of practical measures that can alleviate the administrative burden of the protocol for the UK, without leaving the framework of the protocol. The customs union and the internal market must be safeguarded. Belgium hopes that the UK will be ready for a solution based on dialogue and practical solutions. Counter-measures and their potential impact on the UK and EU Member States' economies would only be considered if it appears that the UK is not prepared to find a solution on this basis. It will then be important to make the right choice to limit the damage. With regard to citizens' rights and access to the territory, the United Kingdom, like the EU Member States, decides sovereignly on the conditions to be met by non-residents in order to enter the territory. There are no behavioural obligations between the European Union and the United Kingdom or between Belgium and the United Kingdom. Belgians and other nationals of the EU Member States who had established themselves in the United Kingdom before 1 January 2021 under the regime of free movement in the European Union may rely on the Treaty of Accession to claim the status of resident, with all the rights conferred by that Treaty. This also means the right to travel freely in and out of the United Kingdom. They will be able to do so with their identity card until 31 December 2025. The fact that nationals of EU Member States are required to submit a passport from 1 October 2021 to enter UK territory and their identity card is no longer sufficient means neither a visa requirement nor an entry ban. Thus, at the present stage, Belgians can travel freely to the United Kingdom unless the UK authorities have specific reasons to assume that they pose a threat to public policy or security.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u46	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your reply. I understand clearly from your reply that the position is clear for Belgium. The agreement must be fully implemented. You are talking about a balanced response from the European Commission. I hope, however, that Europe will also give a clear signal that agreements, which have not gone over the night, should be implemented. If this balanced response means that it can be considered whether possible practical problems for implementation, for example on the administrative level, can be addressed, then this could be an option. However, this reaction cannot apply to fundamental matters, such as the re-negotiation of the competence of the European Court of Justice. I only fear that the British want to go much further and that they want to bring in a symbol. They want to show Northern Ireland that they still have that connection with the United Kingdom. I fear that only administrative or practical measures will not suffice for them. That is why there is this question about the competence of the European Court of Justice. I understand that there is rightly no room for manoeuvre for us. In some cases, Madam Minister, it is not with you that I hear thoughts like that the United Kingdom should now be punished for choosing to leave the European Union. I think that's a wrong way of reasoning. As much as I regret the choice personally, it is ultimately the result of a democratically organised referendum. I do not think that talking about 'punishment' is correct. However, you're supposed to stick to previous agreements. Otherwise the United Kingdom will be making it very difficult to conclude agreements with the European Union in other areas in the future, I fear.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u47	I agree with Mrs Van Bossuyt. Indeed, pacta sunt servanda and the unity of the European market is an important fact. I believe that the European Commission is responding in a good way at the moment, and Belgium can certainly follow up on the practical solutions. A treaty always has practical problems, and we certainly have to look at them, but if there is a threat of further progress, then they have to put their affairs in order internally and come up with solutions. That's what it's all about. We must not punish them, but the European Union must not solve other people's political problems. Northern Ireland is now threatening elections. However, we must show pragmatism and find practical solutions without questioning our unity.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u48	Madam Secretary, the NGO Justice for the victims of the 1988 mass cree in Iran (JVMI), representing the relatives of victims of political executions in Iran, demonstrated in an investigation that in 1988 30,000 political prisoners were murdered under the impetus of a fatwa of ayatollah Khomeini. But also the current President of Iran, Ebrahim Raisi, would have played a key role in the 1988 massacre. A statement by Amnesty International dated 19 June 2021 even calls for an international investigation to investigate the involvement of current President Raisi. On a previous question, you answered me that Belgium raised the question of secret executions of political dissidents in 1988 at UN level. What is the current state of this dossier? An open letter was sent by the JVMI to the EU institutions to address the issue of impunity in Iran. According to the NGO, the EU is still absent in this matter. Are you aware of this open letter and will you also raise this issue at European level? Do you also support the request of the JVMI to set up a UN working group to launch an international investigation into the mass executions of Iranian political prisoners in 1988? Will an international investigation be launched to investigate Mr Raisi's involvement? Now that Ebrahim Raisi officially became President of Iran on 5 August, the families of the victims are concerned about a new massacre against dissidents, demonstrators and political prisoners. How is it ensured internationally that Iran does not exceed its limits when it comes to respecting human rights?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u49	Mrs Samyn, in reply to your question about the international investigation into the mass execution of political prisoners in Iran in 1988, I am not aware of an open letter addressed to the EU institutions. I only have knowledge of an open letter dated 3 May 2021 addressed to the High Commissioner for Human Rights, Mrs Bachelet. The open letter follows the letter of early September 2020 to the Iranian authorities due to a number of so-called special procedures of the UN Human Rights Council including the working group on forced disappearances, the special rapporteur for the human rights situation in Iran and the special rapporteur for transitory justice. This letter calls on the Iranian authorities to carry out a thorough and independent investigation and to prosecute the perpetrators. If this does not happen, the international community is called upon to launch an international investigation. As far as the human rights situation in Iran is concerned, our country, together with other European countries, is ensuring that it is consistently addressed in both bilateral and multilateral contexts. The events that took place between July and September 1988 are well known. As you know, Belgium attaches particular importance to the fight against impunity. Truth and justice are two key pillars in tackling the large-scale violations of human rights of the past. In the context of the search for truth and justice, Belgium raised the issue of the secret execution of political dissidents in 1988 at the level of the UN, especially during Iran's universal periodic investigation that took place in Geneva at the end of 2019. Our country asked Iran to bring to light the truth about forced disappearances and extrajudicial executions. This involved all aspects, both the number of victims and their identity, the circumstances and the location of the material remains. Belgium also requested to facilitate the return of the remains to the families. Moreover, at the March session of the Human Rights Council, Belgium expressed its support for the extension of the mandate of the Special Rapporteur for Human Rights in Iran. At the same meeting Belgium made a statement. During the interactive dialogue with the special rapporteur, we expressed our concern about the human rights situation in Iran, in particular about the death penalty and the discrimination against women.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u50	Madam Minister, thank you for the comprehensive answer. It is extremely worrying that Ibrahim Raisi, who bears a great responsibility for the 1988 mass executions of political dissidents and prisoners in Iran, is now in charge of that country. That is worrying for the future of the Iranian people. The NGO Justice for the victims of the 1988 massacre in Iran, together with the families of the victims, has been calling for an international signal for years. In Sweden, in mid-August, the trial began against the Iranian Hamid Nouri who is suspected of being involved in mass executions. It's the first time anyone's been on trial for those crimes for 30 years. You attach great importance to this matter and I hope that you will continue to raise it at international level. You must insist on launching an international investigation into those responsible for the murder of 30,000 opposition members who have been shot or hanged without trial.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u51	Madam President, Mrs Ponthier, the answer is very short. In reply to your question on the political interference of the US military summit with regard to China, I would like to inform you that there have been no diplomatic contacts with the United States and/or China in the context of their bilateral relations in which Belgium has played a special role. The information in the American press was not known to us. It is not appropriate to comment on a press article.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u52	Madam President, this is indeed an internal matter, I understand that, of course. If the article contains truths, we are indirectly involved. We are a partner of the United States in the field of security in general. The event is so important that we must keep our finger on the pulse, whether it is directly linked to our politics or not. Caution, diplomacy and vigilance must always be at the forefront. That is not always the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u53	Madam President, I refer to the written text of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u54	Madam President, Ms Ponthier, the situation has indeed deteriorated further since the introduction of the National Security Act in Hong Kong in June 2020. The developments in recent months, including the reform of the electoral law, the obligation to swear allegiance to the basic law and the possibility of disqualifying "non-patriotic" candidates give rise to great concern. As you know, Belgium and the European Union have strongly urged China to respect the Chinese-British Declaration of 1984, the basic Hong Kong law and the high degree of autonomy granted to Hong Kong in the context of 'one country, two systems'. In the conclusion of the Council of the European Union, these calls have been followed by concrete measures implemented by Belgium since July 2020, such as enhanced dialogue with civil society actors. Belgium has also supported several initiatives by like-minded countries concerning the situation in Hong Kong within the framework of the Human Rights Council and the Third Committee of the United Nations General Assembly. Our Consulate General in Hong Kong keeps in regular contact with people from civil society and transfers our concerns to the competent authorities. The situation in Hong Kong is also systematically addressed in our bilateral contacts. Belgium advocates keeping the situation in Hong Kong on the EU agenda. A united and coherent position is the best way to convey our message to Beijing and the Hong Kong authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u55	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. You are right to say that Hong Kong is a constant accumulation of violations of democracy, freedom and human rights. This just keeps going on and on. I would like to ask you once again to show more force with the government and to denounce this outright terror of the Chinese elite on its own people in Hong Kong. I believe that the government remains too easy so far. I would urge you to continue to raise this particularly at European level.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u56	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l 55020650C, 55020651C and 55020659C by Mrs Jadin have been converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u57	Madam Minister, I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u58	My services are closely monitoring the human rights situation in Kuwait. The problem of the bedoun in Kuwait is well known. This vulnerable minority, due to its uncertain status, sees access to public services such as health care and education reduced. The COVID-19 pandemic has only aggravated the situation. The subject is the subject of debate in Kuwaiti politics, and I welcome that. Our country attaches great importance to the right of stateless persons in Kuwait, including the right to fundamental rights, including access to social services and proper education. Belgium made a recommendation to that effect in Kuwait's latest universal periodic review in Geneva in January 2020. Our country also urged Kuwait to deal with applications for nationality in accordance with international standards. At European level, Belgium supported the regular organisation of informal dialogues with Kuwait. The second session of such a dialogue took place on 30 March this year and prompted Europe to reiterate its fundamental attitude to human rights. It also advocated an improvement in living conditions in the country and Belgium would not fail to raise this point again in bilateral contacts as well as in international fora.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u59	Thank you for your comprehensive answer, Madam Secretary. As the Kuwaiti Government continues to deny the civil rights of the adorable community, it de facto approves the years of legal, social and economic discrimination against the community. The challenges facing the adorable community are clearly in breach of international human rights standards. Unfortunately, the consequences of human rights violations by the Kuwaiti Government are being observed on a daily basis: suicide attempts by members of the adorable community are frighteningly frequent, even in children, which makes it even worse. I refer to the sad story of an eleven-year-old boy earlier this year. The Community is the victim of discriminatory laws and it is deeply regrettable that Kuwait does not take responsibility and does not take care of a vulnerable group within its borders.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u60	I have asked you a number of times about the situation of Mr Daumerie, the fellow countryman who has been under surveillance in the United Arab Emirates for over a year now. Every day, his situation gets more hopeless. Nota bene today he has to leave his place of residence, as it is simply not financially feasible anymore. So this man is literally on the street, without papers, without a view of a solution, desperate. In Belgium, people in such a situation are assisted. People are offered bed, bath and bread in such a situation, so they are taken care of. In such a situation, ending up in the United Arab Emirates is a very different story. What is the current state of affairs in this matter and what actions has Foreign Affairs taken in the meantime? Have you recently contacted the Ambassador of the United Arab Emirates in Brussels to raise this matter? If so, what did the conversation lead to? Did you also mention the possible unfair conduct of justice? Do you think that a solution can be found in the near future? Since Mr Daumerie's financial situation is precarious, he asked for financial support in a letter to your cabinet, among other things, and raised the issue of home establishment. In a letter to Mr Daumerie you will be informed that you will contact the embassy in Abu Dhabi with regard to his housing problem. Have you contacted him yet? If so, is there a solution? To my question about the number of compatriots in the same situation in the United Arab Emirates, you replied at the beginning of September that there are no compatriots in the same situation. It is reported that there is at least one person also under house arrest, and this has been for five years. Is this information correct?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u61	The Foreign Office and our embassy in Abu Dhabi have been following this file closely for some time. Various initiatives have been taken to the best of their ability to assist and support Mr Daumerie. I wrote to him twice in person, again yesterday. In addition to the numerous contacts and démarches that have taken place in the past, the Director-General for Consular Affairs received a representative from the United Arab Emirates Embassy on 8 July to discuss Mr Daumerie's file. On 15 July, I personally wrote to my colleague in office in the United Arab Emirates to draw attention to Mr Daumerie's difficult situation. Our ambassador in Abu Dhabi also took several steps in this file. For example, the Emir of Sharjah was contacted in order to initiate an attempt at mediation. During my stay in New York last week in the framework of the 76th session of the United Nations General Assembly, I also had a meeting with the Secretary of State for International Cooperation of the United Arab Emirates on the sidelines. I have raised our concerns about this dossier. My colleague took good note of it. Furthermore, our services follow Mr Daumerie's state of health closely and the embassy's reference doctor visited him earlier. Finally, our local embassy is currently looking for possible alternatives to housing for Mr Daumerie and his wife so that their financial burden can be slightly reduced. Our services will continue their efforts to assist Mr Daumerie in the best possible way and to enable an early solution to be found in this dossier. In relation to your questions about the possible similar situation of other Belgians in the United Arab Emirates, it is possible that different situations of persons in a particular country may resemble one another at first sight, but both in the facts and in the consequences, these situations often differ greatly. There can be no direct comparison with what Mr Daumerie is currently going through. These are matters which affect the private lives of our fellow countrymen. As for Johan Daumerie's financial situation, there is no budget line that can assist Belgians in a situation such as his, not for paying court fees abroad, nor for paying housing costs for Belgians who are being house arrested abroad. Our embassy will continue to assist and support Mr Daumerie and, as reported, seeks solutions that can alleviate the difficulties he is experiencing. The embassy remains in contact with both Mr Daumerie himself and his lawyer. Finally, I would like to point out that this is a case which is going on abroad and in which we cannot intervene. A State must not interfere in the course of judicial proceedings in another State. This is a direct consequence of generally accepted and applied principles of international law worldwide. As you know, and as I can show you, we're really doing everything we can to help this man.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u62	Thank you for your reply, Madam Secretary. It is good to hear that last week, on the margins, you had a conversation with those responsible on the ground. Mr Daumerie does feel abandoned by the Belgian Government. We should not ignore it, his situation looks quietly hopeless, without pennies and without roof over the head, without alternative to possible housing. I do not know whether you have been informed of this, because the man has meanwhile contracted COOVID. He'd be seriously ill. Yesterday you should have received a letter, or at least an e-mail. Mr Daumerie was vaccinated once during his illegal detention on 1 August. Despite several attempts, he failed to receive a second vaccination. It's still a vicious circle. Since he is not entitled to medical care, he is not entitled to a second vaccination. Now that he's, in all likelihood, contracted COVID, he's entitled to medical attention. Will anything be done at all to ensure that there is something to be done? The daughter's been waiting for her father for over six months. The father, literally, is waiting for a miracle to get out of this inhuman situation. I have a voicemail from him on my phone. When you hear that man, it's horrible and poignant. I understand that it is not possible to intervene in a court of law, but something has to be done. The man literally says, "I hope for a miracle."
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u63	Madam President, Madam Secretary. The United States, the United Kingdom and Australia announced on 15 September that they had concluded a new strategic military alliance. They have, of course, kept this secret and without consulting the European Union in it. This agreement involves building nuclear-powered submarines that will be delivered to Australia by the US and the UK. As stated by the Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists on 17 September, this will lead to major problems for the non-proliferation policy that both the US and the UK have applied so far and in which we Belgians have always played a certain leading role. For example, these submarines are powered by uranium enriched to military grade. This means that it can be used for the development of nuclear weapons. Australia also has no experience with or facilities for the treatment of that highly enriched uranium. In the past, the US still refused to supply this technology to Canada and France, precisely because of the disastrous effect on that global non-proliferation policy. If this supply continues, the International Atomic Energy Agency can hardly demand, for example, Iran to enrich less than a certain number of kilograms of uranium. Moreover, other US allies will now also be asking for this technology. Following Trump's withdrawal from the Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty, this is once again a manifest threat to global efforts to ban nuclear weapons and to boost the new nuclear arms race that the US had already launched under Obama. Hence my questions. Will you condemn the proliferation of this nuclear arms race and the general rather warlike actions of the US, the UK and Australia? Will you insist at European level that the EU should do the same? What action will Belgium and the EU take on this contemptuous attitude towards the EU, which now appears to honour Biden after Trump? What impact will this have, among other things, on NATO, which is apparently becoming increasingly irrelevant?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u64	Ladies and gentlemen, it must first be clarified that AUKUS is not an alliance or a security pact. It includes a partnership aimed at industrial and technological cooperation in order to rapidly shift Australia's military capability to a different level. As such, neither the EU nor NATO is directly involved. Nevertheless, it is clear that the announcement will have strategic implications for Europe. It confirms the repositioning of the US, which is committed to Asia as a priority and China's advance. Within NATO, this theme, including China's growing role, becomes important with a view to updating the strategic concept of the alliance, to be adopted at the next NATO summit in Madrid in June. It is indeed necessary for the European allies to be able to make their own mark on the debate and for the European Union to continue to define its own policy vis-à-vis China. In New York, AUKUS was discussed by EU Foreign Ministers at the informal Council called upon High Representative Josep Borrell to do so. The exclusion of European interests and the lack of consultation for the announcement of the partnership are sources of concern for Europe. The AUKUS initiative includes the supply of nuclear powered submarines. I would like to stress that this is not about nuclear weapons but about nuclear-powered submarines for conventional military use. Considerations on a new nuclear arms race therefore seem premature to me. As regards the non-proliferation aspects of this agreement, I note that the three countries have formally notified their intention to the International Atomic Energy Agency (ILO). This is important, as the agency ensures that nuclear resources are not used for the development of nuclear weapons. I trust that the three countries will continue to inform the IAEA as the plans are reworked and the declaration of intent is implemented. For Belgium, it is clear that the trilateral initiative must respect all obligations arising from the non-proliferation treaties, including the IAEA verification role. We will certainly continue to insist on this at European level.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u65	I would like to point out that the international rule-based order of American President Biden also applies to the Non-Proliferation Treaty. I cannot get the impression that we are always pointing the finger at countries that we regard as rivals or which do not belong to our allies, but that the United States is apparently entitled to violate the treaty. This is indeed about nuclear technology for powered submarines that we share with another country that did not previously have the capacity to work with enriched uranium. Iran, for example, needs to be curbed, but for allies there is a blind eye. I hear that the Minister is also somewhat displeased with the fact that the United States has entered into this partnership on its own on account of the geostrategic location, the pilot to Asia, with the intention of continuing to surround China. I therefore urge the Minister to get rid of that American nuclear umbrella. If Belgium is serious about a nuclear-free world, then we must distance ourselves from that nuclear alliance, which is led by the United States, and sign the UN nuclear weapons ban treaty. Furthermore, we have no lessons to learn from the United States, because they themselves do not take their most loyal allies into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u66	Madam Minister, whether we call it a pact or a cooperation agreement, the present initiative shows once again that the US, under Joe Biden, is shifting its focus to Asia, in particular China. It is therefore also a sort of America first policy of President Biden, who was almost beatified by Charles Michel, as we have read in the press. So it could be. The feud between France and the US has now been clearly settled, but it is also clear that the US is playing out the interests of its defence industry against those of France and perhaps by enlargement against those of the EU. Whether this initiative will be sufficient to counter China's increasing influence is currently unclear, as the West is largely dependent on China in certain areas. China is also putting enormous military, political and economic pressure on the Indian and Pacific region. The stronger they get, the stronger their grip on Europe. In this respect, there is, of course, something to say for the attitude of the US. The question is what France and the EU can provide as an appropriate answer. In this story France may behave a bit like Napoleon at the time, it would be better to keep in mind the larger geopolitical story. As far as we are concerned, France's diplomatic response was somewhat overwhelmed and, of course, it should change its agenda, particularly with Germany, towards its own European security community, who knows its own European army. That is, of course, their right and there may be something to say for that, but in any case, in order to counter a global power like China, we stand, at least at the moment, much stronger if America and Europe continue to work together. As far as we are concerned, a well thought-out and strategically based policy is appropriate. I hope that this agreement can contribute to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u67	Mr Cogolati, I share your concern about the human rights situation in Afghanistan. I think we're not the only ones. Our relations with the Taliban will require a pragmatic, flexible and coordinated approach at European Union level to maintain open channels of communication, in particular to defend the Taliban's respect for human rights, including those of women and minorities. Our country will not fail to remind the Afghan authorities of their obligations in this regard. In this regard, Belgium actively participated, on 24 August, in the special session of the Human Rights Council on the situation of human rights in Afghanistan. Our country has called for Afghan authorities to be held accountable for the serious setbacks in human rights, including those of minorities. In this case, Belgium supports the establishment of an independent UN monitoring mechanism on human rights developments in Afghanistan. We talked about it earlier. So far, the FPS has not been informed of any cases of deportation of Afghan Uighurs to China. Furthermore, our embassy in Islamabad, which is also competent for Afghanistan, has not had to deal with cases of Uighur families in Afghanistan. As far as Afghanistan is concerned, China's concern is primarily security. Beijing advocates stability and wants to prevent this country from becoming a sanctuary for terrorist organizations, in particular the Islamic movement of Eastern Turkestan, a Uighur separatist movement considered a terrorist organization by China. The latter fears possible repercussions in the Chinese province of Xinjiang as well as possible threats to Chinese economic interests on the Afghan ground and in the region. The question of Taliban support for the Islamic movement in Eastern Turkestan was one of the main subjects during the visit to Beijing on 28 July 2021 of a Taliban delegation led by Mullah Baradar. On that occasion, Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi called for a firm commitment from the Taliban that Afghanistan would not be used to attack China. The Taliban reportedly gave him this assurance in exchange for China's continued economic and financial cooperation. The development of relations between China and Afghanistan will continue to be closely monitored by Belgian Foreign Affairs and will also be on the agenda of future meetings at European Union level. I also link this part of the response with what was mentioned earlier in relation to regional actors and their involvement in the country's future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u68	The question refers to international sanctions against Alain Goetz. The FPS Foreign Affairs and the FPS Justice are bound by a Memorandum of Understanding implementing the OECD Convention on Bribery of Foreign Public Officials in Commercial Relations. In this context, in February 2019 my administration submitted to the SPF Justice an official denunciation, as prescribed in article 29 of the Code of Criminal Investigation, of Goetz's and X's infractions. The FPS Justice has transmitted these indications to the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office, which has opened several cases, which are still ongoing and are covered by the secrecy of judicial information. With regard to specific and concrete approaches in collaboration with the European Union and the United Nations, it should be noted that Mr. Goetz's situation is the subject of confidential discussions within the Security Council Sanctions Committee established by resolution 1533 concerning the Democratic Republic of the Congo. I would also point out that Belgium is heavily involved in the development, at international level, in particular at the OECD and the European Union level, of rules aimed at promoting the transparency and sustainability of supply chains for minerals from conflict zones or high-risk areas. Our legal arsenal was strengthened on 1 January 2021 with the entry into force in the European Union of a regulation on minerals from confit areas. This Regulation lays down due diligence obligations for EU companies importing tin, tantalum, tungsten or gold beyond defined volume thresholds. It requires them to supply minerals responsibly and to verify that their supply chain does not contribute to the financing of armed conflicts. Companies must therefore align their practices with the standards set out in the OECD guide on the duty of vigilance for responsible supply chains for minerals. Given that these importers are obliged to identify and control smelters and refineries in their supply chains, the regulation will also have an indirect impact on smelters and refineries in the rest of the world, particularly in Central Africa. With regard to the Belgian reaction to the US sanctions, it is up to the Federal Prosecutor's Office to set aside any action it wishes to take. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u69	Thank you, Madam Minister. I do believe that it is important to follow this dossier carefully. I will do the same for sanctions, particularly in the Security Council at the United Nations. I think it's important to undermine this particularly flourishing business of conflict gold, blood gold, dirty gold. I think we cannot accept that one of our nationals is one of the main protagonists of these dirty gold refineries that fuel particularly bloody conflicts, especially in the DRC. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u70	This American intervention is a war crime under international law which must not go unpunished and against which Belgium must give its opinion. It is unacceptable that the United States should continue to execute people without having studied the situation in detail and without having studied the nature of the activities of the persons concerned. It is precisely this nonchalant attitude that is a bit ironic in relation to the lives of innocent Afghan citizens who have driven a lot of Afghan citizens into the arms of the Taliban in rural areas. A study published by the U.S. Stanford University has already shown in 2012 that the vast majority of the victims of these "strikes" are civilians, but the Pentagon has never stopped this type of attack since.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u71	What are you going to do to denounce the use of signature strikes to prevent the killing of alleged terrorists?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u72	Mr De Vuyst, the rules of humanitarian law are intended to protect persons who do not participate in enemy activities in a weapons conflict. The parties to a conflict must investigate facts that may constitute war crimes in order to determine the exact circumstances of what has happened. One can speak of war crimes if the intention to violate a rule of humanitarian law is present, such as in the case of an attack deliberately directed against citizens who do not participate in hostilities. Subject to further investigation by credible and recognised bodies, the available information on this tragic attack of 29 August 2021 does not appear to indicate that a war crime might have been committed in this case. Yet it is a terrible situation for the victims and their families.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u73	I think this is an example of selective indignation and double standards and two weights. I keep asking these kinds of questions just to keep telling ourselves a mirror because we continue to lecture others, defend international law as well as human rights and even impose sanctions if other countries break the rules, while we ourselves adopt a different attitude towards our allies. This undermines our position vis-à-vis others when we want to enforce or enforce something if human rights or international law are not respected. It is indeed a violation of international law. Between 2012 and 2013, the United States carried out drone attacks on the territory of another sovereign state, killing a lot of innocent people. Meanwhile, several presidents witnessed these extrajudicial executions in the White House Situation Room. I find that striking. The United States feels as the greatest military force untouchable. Who's gonna hurt them? Please cut off those two sizes and two weights. If we do not hesitate to call other countries to account, this should also be done with the United States.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u74	Madam President, Madam Minister, the condemnation of Paul Rusesabagina and the manner in which his trial took place in Rwanda has given rise to many international reactions. As you yourself have reminded us, despite our country's numerous appeals on this subject, it must be noted that he was not able to benefit from a fair and fair trial, which calls into question the judgement. In response to this statement, the Rwandan Ministry of Foreign Affairs considered that the Belgian government had despised, I quote: "the Rwandan judicial system since the beginning of this trial". The meeting you were to have with your counterpart was subsequently cancelled, although Kigali claims to remain ready to welcome you – I quote – "at a convenient time". Minister, can you take stock of this situation? What is the current state of relations between our two countries? Are there any exchanges going on? How do you envisage the future of dialogue with Rwanda? Finally, as far as Mr Rusesabagina's case is concerned, what message do you intend to convey when you have the opportunity to discuss with a representative of the Rwandan authorities? Do you consider that specific measures should be taken in response to this case?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u75	Madam Minister, the sentence has fallen. After just over a year in Rwanda's jails, Paul Rusesabagina was sentenced last Monday to 25 years in prison for terrorism. It is a decision that you have rushed – rightly – to denounce, as the conditions surrounding the trial still raise questions today. However, it is not your confrontation with Rwandan foreign affairs that I would like to address, but the accusations brought against the Belgian government by Paul Rusesabagina's lawyer, Mr Vincent Lurquin. Mr. Lurquin was not only not allowed to meet Mr. Rusesabagina, who was detained in a Rwandan prison, but was also expelled from Rwanda on the grounds that he was not allowed to practise his profession as a lawyer. We can therefore reasonably consider the existence of a manifest violation of the right of access to a lawyer. This is a curious fact, since there is a judicial cooperation agreement between Belgium and Rwanda. Moreover, this agreement seems to be fully used by the Rwandan courts when it comes to Rwandan defendants in Belgium. For Mr Lurquin, cooperation between Belgium and Rwanda is "singularly unilateral: the Belgian State would minimize every incident." Minister, do you consider that there is an imbalance in the application of the judicial cooperation agreement between Belgium and Rwanda, the latter having full recourse to the agreement? If so, why continue to honour our commitments if the Rwandan authorities do not? The Rwandan authorities would refer to the precedent of Father Theunis – a case in which Belgium did not comply with its commitments – in order not to respect their own commitments. Are their fears justified? Are you aware of any other cases in which Belgium has failed to fulfil its commitments? Finally, you said you were in contact with the Rwandan authorities to find a solution to Mr. Rusesabagina's conviction. Are you considering involving his lawyer in all the steps you will take?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u76	Madam President, Minister, the other members have already outlined the situation. She's known to you, of course. Paul Rusesabagina was indeed sentenced to 25 years in prison last week. You have already mentioned that he has not been given a fair trial and that there is clearly also a problem with human rights. My question follows on from that. At the same time, during the World Championships cycling last weekend in Leuven, it was announced that Rwanda will organise the World Championships in 2025. Then a reader of De Morgen wrote: "Sport is the best antidote against the poison of political awareness." Hans Vandeweghe once again insisted that organizers of sporting events see life and sport in their own world and politically separate from each other in another programme, namely De Afsaan. The question we are asking ourselves is whether an international sporting event should belong in a country with an authoritarian regime. My questions for you are next. What is your vision on the organisation of the World Cup cycling in Rwanda in 2025? Does such a sporting event with such an appearance belong in a country with an authoritarian regime? Was Belgian support given to Rwanda's candidacy for the organisation of the World Cup cycling? If so, what channels did it go through? Has the Belgian government consulted with the UCI or with Belgian Cycling about this? Was there a delegation from the Rwandan regime represented at the World Cup cycling races in Belgium? Who were they? Were there any political contacts? Were the case of Rusesabagina and the World Cup cycling discussed in 2025? In the meantime, have you been able to talk to your colleague from Rwanda about the unfair trial? What message have you brought or will you bring?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u77	Madam President, Madam Minister, I agree with the questions. You have given me a proper response to Mr Rusesabagina's sentence to 25 years in prison. However, what further consequences will we have for this reaction? Is it not time for us to review or even suspend our budgetary support to Rwanda bilaterally if there is no change? A meeting with the Foreign Minister Biruta has, of course, been cancelled or postponed. That is why I have the following questions. Will you continue with the condemnation, including of Mr Rusesabagina's unfair and unfair trial? What impact does this have on our bilateral relations? Are you planning concrete initiatives other than verbal condemnation or not? Is there a new consultation scheduled with your colleague Biruta? During that discussion, will you press for repatriation, which was also requested in our resolution? Have you mentioned this potential repatriation before in a conversation with the Rwandan ambassador? Has there been any contact between the consular services and Mr Rusesabagina since the conviction? What discussions have you had on these matters on the fringes of the United Nations General Assembly, possibly with other partners? How do they evaluate the issue? Do you agree with me that further support for the Kagame regime should be linked to the implementation of the recommendations of the UN Human Rights Council in its Universal Periodic Review of the country?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u78	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, since the beginning of September 2020, the Foreign Affairs departments in Kigali and also in Brussels have closely followed the situation of Mr Paul Rusesabagina, a Belgian citizen. You have, moreover, regularly asked me about this. So you know that I attach the greatest importance to the situation of our fellow citizen. Belgium and Rwanda have regularly dealt with this matter. I have referred to the situation of Mr Paul Rusesabagina on many occasions with the Rwandan Foreign Minister, Mr Biruta, whether in writing or orally. Noting a violation of the basic principles of the trial, I have repeatedly asked my counterpart to remedy them and to consider alternatives. He made it clear to me that his country was determined to complete the judicial process. In this regard, it is important to note that Rwanda regards Mr. Rusesabagina as a Rwandan citizen. This makes a profound distinction between this situation and a case like that of Father Theunis. I recall that Mr. Rusesabagina's trial began in Kigali on 17 February this year and ended on 20 September with a sentence of 25 years' imprisonment by the High Court for international crimes in Kigali. As I have already said, we have repeatedly referred to Mr Rusesabagina's situation in this House. I have also repeated Belgium's position on this matter to my Rwandan counterpart. The content of the press release, which repeats our analysis of the development of the trial, is therefore in no way new and therefore cannot be taken with surprise by Rwanda. Moreover, they condemn in their press release what they consider to be an unacceptable attitude of Belgium since the beginning of the trial. At the end of the judicial process in Rwanda, I have therefore effectively stated in a press release that Mr. Rusesabagina has not benefited from a fair and fair trial, particularly with regard to the rights of the defence. In addition, I find that the presumption of innocence was not respected in this proceeding, all of which de facto called into question the trial and its judgement. I note, moreover, that the US State Department has issued a communiqué to this effect, as well as the British Minister for Africa. Indeed, a meeting was planned with Minister Biruta in New York, in the margins of the United Nations General Assembly. As always, I was planning to discuss this with my Rwandan minister. I was also determined to talk about Mr Lurquin's eviction, not in the Rusesabagina case in Rwanda, but in the Belgian case. It is a distinction that must be made. However, at the request of Rwandan side, this meeting was cancelled. No new date has been set at the moment, but I do read the following in the Minister's communiqué, and I quote: "However, the Government of Rwanda remains ready to welcome the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Kingdom of Belgium to Rwanda at its convenience to continue the dialogue between the two countries." So there's no date, but there's an invitation to visit. Of course I regret this cancellation. Belgium has always been in favour of dialogue. I therefore intend to continue the contacts with the Rwandan authorities. After all, the interests of our compatriots come first. They will be better served by a frank dialogue with Rwanda than by a bid between the two countries. I would also stress once again that there is an invitation from Rwanda to go to Kigali. In this spirit, my head of the cabinet met with the Rwandan ambassador last Tuesday. The intention was to clarify the Belgian position once again to the Rwandan authorities and to seek further solutions. The communication channels aren't broken. You are also asking me about the follow-up by our embassy on the spot. Since his arrest and given the local health situation associated with the covid-19 pandemic, representatives of our embassy in Kigali have been able to carry out nine consular visits to Mr. Rusesabagina. They were also able to talk to him over the phone several times. The last visit took place on 16 September. Representatives of our embassy in Kigali were able to attend the hearings and a Belgian diplomat was present at the court when the verdict was delivered. I also hope that Mr Rusesabagina, as a Belgian citizen, will continue to receive consular assistance from our country. As for the way in which Mr. Rusesabagina was arrested and transferred to Rwanda, you are aware that a judicial investigation has been opened in Belgium. So I will not comment on this. Moreover, we also have regular contact with Mr Paul Rusesabagina's family. I myself met them on 14 June in the presence of the lawyer in the Belgian proceedings. These contacts with Mr Rusesabagina, his lawyer and his family will show how they see the future. Personally, I believe that dialogue with the Rwandan authorities must be continued, and I will continue to invite them to find a solution to the current situation. That dialogue will also be necessary to encourage Rwanda to work on the implementation of the recommendations of the Human Rights Council. As far as the Pegasus case is concerned, as has been mentioned in the context of another question, I refer you to the answers given on that occasion. I have heard from the press the decision of the International Cycling Union that the World Championships will take place in Rwanda in 2025. Belgium was not involved in the decision taken by the sports federation. Finally, with regard to matters relating to the redistribution of the development cooperation budget, I invite you to ask the minister responsible for this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u79	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I take note of the fact that a judicial investigation is under way in Belgium concerning the manner in which Paul Rusesabagina was arrested. By virtue of the separation of powers, it is quite normal that you do not wish to vote at this stage. Nevertheless, I urge you to continue your efforts to ensure that Paul Rusesabagina can benefit, if necessary, from a new fair trial. I also act with some relief that he will always benefit from consular assistance under your guidance. You have often raised the issue of the trial of Mr. Rusesabagina, a man considered by Kigali to be Rwandan. This has clearly created strong and enduring tensions. An invitation is therefore pending in Rwanda. I look forward to your determination and your will to defend the normalization of our bilateral relations with Kigali without giving in to this intangible issue of our fundamental values, including the right of everyone to a fair trial and respect for the rights of defence and the presumption of innocence.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u80	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. Major efforts have been made by our country during Mr Rusesabagina's detention. You have provided an overview of consular visits and telephone and diplomatic contact. You've spoken out on several occasions. Major efforts have undoubtedly been made by you. You have also clearly referred to Mr Rusesabagina's condemnation as an unfair trial. The suspension of dialogue on the part of Rwanda is a very brutal step. From a diplomatic and political point of view, we must recognise that the efforts so far have not been very successful. This exchange of views is also an opportunity for me to discuss with you what steps we can take, because indignation is not enough. I think we should look for ways to increase the pressure on Rwanda so that the country respects human rights, especially in this case. After all, this is a fellow countryman of ours. I have considered a number of options in my question. The convocation of the Rwandan ambassador seems to us to be the smallest option, but let us look for ways to redistribute the Belgian development money so that it can be used as a lever for the Rwandan regime, without at the expense of the Rwandan people. It is a technique that exists, that can be effective and that has already been applied by our country in the past. I would also like to draw attention very fundamentally to the resolution adopted in the Chamber, in which Parliament called for everything possible to be done to repatriate Rusesabagina to Belgium. I think we should keep hammering that. Given the context in Rwanda, it is clear that there has been no fair, correct treatment. That will not be the case in the future either. For me, repatriating a fellow countryman is still the ultimate ambition. I would ask you to think further about this and take steps in that direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u81	Minister, thank you for your efforts on this particularly difficult and cumbersome issue, both personally and diplomatically. You yourself denounced a trial that was neither fair nor fair. Having said that, I also want to recall the enforced disappearance – denounced as a method of kidnapping by Human Rights Watch – and the illegal transfer of a Belgian national to Rwanda. This is obviously unacceptable. I did not hear that a comprehensive, detailed, independent and transparent report had been produced on how our national Paul Rusesabagina had been arrested and transferred to Rwanda. I'm worried...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u82	Excuse me, but the case is under investigation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u83	All right.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u84	I draw your attention to these aspects that often come back. I say this with great respect to this committee. It's in training. We must therefore respect the separation of powers. In addition, nothing can be done in this matter without the collaboration of Rwandans.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u85	I understand, Madam Minister, the separation of powers is crucial here. However, we must be able to talk about humanitarian release and concrete remedies to repatriate a national who has been a victim – in any case, until proven otherwise – of what many independent NGOs have described as "forced disappearance".
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u86	Madam Minister, I thank you and also welcome our diplomatic services for their clear efforts on this issue. However, I remain perplexed about the asymmetrical nature of the application of the conventions that bind us with Rwanda in this regard, but I understand the difficulty of the present case. Thank you again for the follow-up in this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u87	Madam Minister, thank you for your comprehensive answer on the Rusesabagina case and your position on the organisation of the World Cup cycling races in 2025. Personally, I think it is a very bad signal to organise a major international sporting event when human rights in Rwanda are under very strong pressure. The fact that the organisation of major sporting events is allocated to countries where fundamental rights and freedoms are under pressure has to do with the long-standing view that sport and politics must remain separate. We believe that this position is outdated. Sport and politics are linked, and sport can also contribute to respect for important values such as human rights and labour rights and thus a better world. Moreover, such an international sporting event is also an economic event and human and labour rights must also be respected in its organisation. That is why it is important that we work in international contexts and in cooperation with the sports umbrella and sports federations to promote the inclusion of respect for human rights in the regulations of international sports federations for the allocation of such sporting events. In addition, we must encourage the organisers and host countries of these events to lay down in advance in binding texts that the authorities must respect and protect human rights and workers' rights. Let's think about Qatar's and Rwanda's files now. I urge you to launch an appeal to international umbrella organisations and bodies such as FIFA, IOC and UCI to fully apply the values and charters to which they refer in their communications when monitoring the candidacy for the organisation of international events. There's still a lot of work on the shelf. The French President of the UCI, for example, referred to a question about the violation of human rights in Rwanda as a matter of fact. Random arrests, detentions and suspicious deaths during the detention of mainly political opponents are difficult to identify with the sense that there is a lot going on there. Another argument was that democracy is not perfect anywhere. Well, Rwanda is at the heart of 129 of The Economist's democracy index. Those statements, which I leave on his behalf, show that there is still a great deal of work to be done. We have drawn up a motion for a resolution on this subject, which we shall table in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u88	Madam Minister, thank you for your open commitment to the Rusesabagina case. You started silent diplomacy and then said it louder, because there was little impact on Rwanda. You said that the Human Rights Council is the world's eyes and ears on human rights and that there is a problem there that is not specific to Rusesabagina, but actually systematic with regard to the political opponents in Rwanda. The UPR already referred to forced disappearances, arbitrary detention, extrajudicial sentences, torture and torture. Since 2017, the Sub-Committee has not been admitted to the site. I myself have found that if we want to talk about this, people are told that it will not be without consequences for relations with Belgium. You made it very clear in your policy statement that human rights are crucial and universal for us. We have a responsibility to protect when UN Member States fail to fulfil their obligations. In this case, we certainly need to continue, to give a clear signal. Of course, the conversation has to be started first, to hear their reaction. It must not just be a verbal conviction, we must also give a different signal. If we continue to support such a device, then we shall be cleaning up that regime's blazing. The people must not be punished for the sake of authoritarian leaders, but we must not continue to support a state apparatus which does not respect the rule of law. I will also address this to your colleague Kitir. I agree with Mr De Vriendt. We have made it clear in the resolution that repatriation must be discussed if you are to be allowed to enter into contacts. I would ask you to continue with this because we believe that this is still a Belgian, although that is disputed. So I look forward to the follow-up and hope that they will continue to send signals to the Rwandan regime. What is happening there in terms of human rights and the rule of law is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u89	You're referring to increasing attention. I want to correct you. That is not the case at all. We are trying to keep as many channels of communication as possible open in order to be able to serve Mr Rusesabagina in the best way possible. After all, he is a Belgian who must be able to use the consular service. I just want to clarify that, because I said that in the media too. What you said isn't right. It's like the opposite.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u90	Thank you for that clarification. That's what's being communicated to the outside world. We do not know what efforts are being made by silent diplomacy to keep the pressure down, but it is now clear that efforts have been made in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u91	Madam President, Minister, on July 5, the Norwegian pension fund KLP announced that it would withdraw 16 multinationals active in the Israeli settlements in the West Bank. Among these, the French Alstom and Altice Europe as well as the American Motorola. All of them were on the list published by the United Nations in February 2021 and are awaiting an update. The cumulative disinvestment amounts to a total of $32 million. This follows the decision taken in May by the Norwegian sovereign wealth fund, which had withdrawn from two Israeli groups for the same reasons. The Norwegian attitude is, to say the least, exemplary and illustrates a certain lucidity with regard to the policy pursued in the areas occupied by the Israeli government, a policy that we have been denouncing here in The House for a long time. If anyone still imagined that the new team in Tel-Aviv was going to start a change of course on this subject, they would have had it for their own expense, since, a few weeks ago, we learned that this team was planning to build 2,000 new housing units for the settlers. If it seems that this plan also provides for a few hundred homes for the Palestinians, it must not deceive us: the government of Naftali Bennett is in line with that of its predecessor, Benjamin Netanyahu. As a reminder, these additional settlers would therefore be in addition to the 475,000 who already live in the West Bank, in perfect violation of international law. Minister, here are some elements that prove, if need be, that it is more than time for us to move forward on a real policy of differentiation towards these territories, as provided for in the government agreement. Minister, have you been aware of the decisions of these pension funds? How does the work of the intercabinets group, set up following the Kern of 19 May 2021, progress? Similarly, what is the status of the information work initiated by the FPS Foreign Affairs and some of our positions abroad on differentiation? Finally, when I ask my questions, I think I see an e-mail informing that the government has made progress on the subject. But since I haven't had the opportunity to read it yet, I'm not sure. I am listening carefully, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u92	Mr Ben Achour, thank you for your questions. Developments related to the West Bank are, of course, being monitored, as well as the diplomatic posts concerned. The withdrawal of Norwegian pension funds was therefore reported to me. As for the e-mail you're referring to, it's interesting. You get an e-mail. I am receiving press articles that have obviously been aroused by my colleagues in the government, as there are quotes from my colleague, Pierre-Yves Dermagne in the Economy and from one of your eco-friendly colleagues, Mr Moutquin, on the progress of our work. For my part, it is not my practice to comment to the press on the work in progress, or to submit proposals to the press that would not have been the subject of discussion between partners. I can only tell you, at this stage, that we have initiated an inventory of the implementation of differentiations in the various federal administrations. We also surveyed several of our European partners on the approach to the issue. This was the methodology we wanted to apply to the start of work on differentiation. The boycott is mentioned by the press! It has never been a question of boycott, but of working better on differentiation from our international obligations. We are working on this and are about to provide the conclusions of these working groups. We are moving forward and as soon as this is ready, I will not fail to inform you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u93	I'm not here to beat myself up on leaks... that's really not my problem. My problem is that this work is proceeding quickly, because I would not like us to give the impression that the federal public authorities in Belgium can raise the issue of China, Myanmar, Iran and a range of countries in which human rights are violated without ever speaking actively about Israel with a prospect of concrete actions. This would be an extremely bad signal as to a double standard that would exist and would be very detrimental to our credibility on the human rights issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u94	Madam Minister, we have talked a number of times in this committee about the situation of metis children. Recently, a number of groups that were abused by their church or by the government have been drawn to the Council of Europe with a resolution. This included Belgium's metises, which, since the excuses of then Prime Minister Charles Michel, have not seen enough change in their situation. They are experiencing administrative and psychological problems to this day. They are also still in a legal vacuum and have not yet been fully recognised by the Belgian authorities. There are problems with birth certificates that are not valid. There are problems during wedding ceremonies related to identity confirmation. Visas are refused to metises that still live in their homeland and want to visit their family, because the colonial birth certificate here is invalid, etc. Since Charles Michel's excuses have not changed fundamentally enough, this motion has therefore been sent to the Council of Europe. They ask for recovery for different groups that have been abused by their state or ecclesiastical governments. They also founded the Justice Initiative. The problems for the metises continue to drag on. However, their recognition is part of the coalition agreement. Hence my next questions. What is your reaction to the fact that the metises were drawn to the Council of Europe with that motion? What is the current state of affairs regarding the treatment of administrative problems and the psychological damage caused by the metis children by the Belgian State? I am thinking, among other things, of the creation of the memorial monument and of the funding envisaged for the full application of the meti resolution adopted unanimously by the Chamber in 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u95	Thank you for your question on the situation of the metis children born during Belgian colonization. Like you, I have taken note of the decision of some of the associations representing Belgium's metises to go to the Council of Europe together with a number of other European groups and organisations. The implementation of the so-called meti resolution is an important issue for the government, illustrated by its explicit inclusion in the Government Agreement of 30 September 2020. The various competent cabinets and the departments concerned also have regular contact with the associations. In reply to previous parliamentary questions, I have already given an overview of the various steps already taken to implement the so-called Metissen resolution. As regards the questions relating to the civil status, the FPS Justice deals with the requests submitted by the colonial metises concerned. To this end, a contact point was established whose address was communicated to the parties concerned through the associations representing them, so that they could provide their individual files. The parties concerned were advised to report in advance to the Child and Family or to the Community authorities to verify the completeness of the files submitted. As far as birth certificates are concerned, an analysis is being carried out by the Minister of Justice to see how this problem can be addressed. For more information on this particular point, I invite you to address you to the Minister of Justice, as this aspect is part of his powers. As you are undoubtedly aware, there is also a scientific study, the first phase of which, including the creation of a database of the individual, family and collective trajectories of the colonial metises, started in 2019. As regards the second phase, in particular a detailed historical study of the role of the civil and ecclesiastical authorities in the treatment of metises during colonisation in the Belgian Congo and in Rwanda and Burundi, preparations are progressing at this stage and we will be able to start soon. More details on this study can be given as soon as it starts. As you can see, many initiatives have already been taken or started to implement the Metissen resolution. My services will continue to consult with the various associations and stakeholders to discuss the further implementation of the resolution. In mid-October, a new meeting was held between the associations and the relevant Cabinets.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u96	Of course, the Minister of Justice is also competent. Several questions about the punctual problems that metissen children still experience were also addressed to him. You say that you have already taken various initiatives with the government and Parliament. A contact point has been set up and such but apparently this has still not reassured the associations. For example, it was considered necessary at the beginning of this year to repeat the points of pain by means of an official letter to the President of the Chamber and to you as Minister, so that the people concerned still cannot enjoy a recovery of honour. We now see that they are still forced to go further because the Belgian State is not complying with the full implementation of the meteorite resolution and are therefore forced to go to the Council of Europe to get their rights. It's still a very sensitive point. It concerns the recovery of nationality. It is also about that only partial funding of historical research. There are still a number of gaps in implementation. I didn't hear you say anything about the absence of that memorial. In the past, you have remained on the plains about this. For the association of the metises, however, this is a very symbolically charged point of attention. They fear that the motion for a resolution and the pardon of the Belgian state is merely a tissue for bleeding. In their view, the full implementation of the resolution is under way. That is why, earlier this year, I asked you as Minister, by means of a motion of recommendation, to work fully and urgently, in cooperation with the Länder and the administrations concerned, in the spirit of the resolution, on the effective and full implementation of the resolution. The association of the metises would be very grateful for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u97	Madam President, Madam Minister, a march was held on 15 September in Masina, east of Kinshasa, organized by the Lamuka opposition platform. It was the result of a series of incidents, one of which targeted the correspondent journalist of RTBF and RFI. This journalist was caught and then arrested extremely violently by the police - videos exist. Shortly thereafter, he was finally released as a result of government intervention. RTBF and RFI called on the authorities of the country to respect freedom of the press and to take all necessary measures to combat such acts, stating that "these methods could clearly be akin to a desire to prevent the revelation of the truth". The NGO "Journalist in danger" (JED) also condemned this act in similar terms. The aim of this demonstration was to demand the depoliticization of CENI (the National Independent Electoral Commission). The latter is still awaiting the appointment of a new Bureau and, in this context, the violence that took place on the margins of this gathering clearly illustrates the febrileness that is taking over part of Congolese society with regard to the observance of electoral deadlines - in December 2023. This was further exacerbated by the adoption in June of a law on the reform of the CENI, which was perceived by the opposition as too favourable to the current government. Madam Minister, as voices rise and are already wondering about the possibility of respecting, in the present state of affairs - whether it is done or not - the constitutional deadline for the holding of elections in December 2023, I would like to ask you the following questions. Have you learned - but I assume this is the case - of the incident to which the correspondent of RTBF and RFI was subjected? Have you met with the DRC authorities on this subject? What was the content of your discussions? What support could Belgium provide to the DRC, so that it can ensure the establishment of a democratic process guaranteeing the proper execution of the electoral process, within the constitutional deadlines? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u98	Madam President, Madam Minister, on 15 September last, the RTBF correspondent journalist, Patient Ligodi, was covering a peaceful demonstration organized in a commune in Kinshasa by opposition leaders. This demonstration was aimed at opposing a possible postponement of the elections scheduled for the end of 2023 in the DRC and at denouncing the supposed politicization of the Independent National Electoral Commission (CENI).
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u99	Minister, did you address the incident involving Patient Ligodi during your meeting with Félix Tshisekedi and Christophe Lutundula on the sidelines of the UNGA, or at least the protection of journalists in the DRC? What is Belgium's position on the conditioning of the holding of elections in 2023 at the population census? Do you think you can count on Felix Tshisekedi's commitments to "do everything possible" to maintain these elections? How does Belgium intend to react if the DRC does not hold these elections in 2023? What is the progress of the reforms of CENI, the management audit of its former office and the appointment of its new facilitators? Is there a real willingness on the part of the government to resume the reforms that were in its agenda? What guarantees have you had for these reforms to continue? Does Belgium contribute to this work? In what way?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u100	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as you say, the correspondent journalist of RTBF and RFI in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Mr Ligodi, was caught and brutalised by law enforcement forces while covering a peaceful march organized by the Lamuka coalition in Kinshasa on 15 September. The demonstration had been banned by the governor of Kinshasa, who had asked for it to be organized two days later. This event was organized to insist on the observance of electoral deadlines and to oppose the politicization of the Independent National Electoral Commission (CENI). Following his arrest, Mr. Ligodi was briefly detained before being released shortly thereafter. The DRC's Minister of Communication and Media, Patrick Muyaya, reacted immediately with energy by condemning "this police blunder". In its response, the Committee noted that an investigation was under way and that the perpetrators would be severely punished. Our embassy in Kinshasa also reacted the same day by strongly condemning this violence and noting the commitments made by the Minister of Communication and the General Inspectorate of the Police, which confirmed the opening of an investigation. My services continue to follow this issue closely and we will continue to insist that justice do its job. More generally, recent UN reports reveal that many human rights violations are still attributable to the security forces. It is essential and urgent that these past practices end and security sector reform programmes have been initiated by President Tshisekedi and his Government. Through Enabel, Belgium has embarked on the process of reform of the Congolese police. Other projects supporting security sector reform are also under consideration, particularly in the European framework. In addition to these projects, which will contribute to the development of a new work ethic within the security forces, it remains essential to conduct judicial investigations and bring to justice alleged perpetrators of violations and abuses of human rights regardless of their affiliation. We encourage the Congolese authorities to make every effort to promote effective and independent justice. We maintain very regular and open contacts with the Congolese authorities. We reiterate our support for the reform programme initiated by President Tshisekedi and the Congolese Government for the socio-economic development of the country. Our commitment to the improvement of the security situation, the continuation of the democratic space, including freedom of the press and respect for electoral exchanges in accordance with the Constitution, are points of attention during our discussions and we have met with Prime Minister Tshisekedi and Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs Lutundula in discussions at the UN. We have addressed a number of issues, including these and the President's discussion of his priorities. The presidential and legislative elections of 2023 should consolidate the democratic entrenchment of the Democratic Republic of the Congo and with it the stability of the State and its institutions. President Tshisekedi has repeatedly confirmed his intention to organise the elections in accordance with the constitutional deadlines. The process of identification of the population on the one hand and of the census on the other was initiated in parallel with the start of the voter identification process, and the Congolese authorities affirmed that these processes would not condition the holding of elections in a timely manner. The new organic law of the Independent National Commission was promulgated by President Tshisekedi last July, but is the subject of protests by the opposition and a section of civil society that either the changes are cosmetic or that its independence is not really strengthened. The new CENI office is not yet in place due to differences between the various components responsible for appointing its officials. Discords are also being heard about the electoral reforms to be carried out before the elections are held. Belgium regularly reiterates its commitment to holding credible, transparent and inclusive elections in accordance with the electoral calendar and urges the authorities to ensure that the process of preparing these elections is carried out in the broadest possible consensus and in a sincere dialogue with all stakeholders. On the other hand, we have no position to have regarding President Tshisekedi's expressed willingness to run for a second term, which is in line with the provisions of the Congolese Constitution. Belgium will continue to monitor closely the implementation of the reforms as well as the preparation of the electoral process and stands ready, alongside the European Union, to accompany, if they so wish, the Congolese authorities in the completion of this project. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u101	Madam Minister, I thank you for your replies, which confirm that Belgium is one of the most important partners in the DRC on the road to development and democratic stabilisation. The deadline of 2023 must be prepared now. We are not preparing an election in a country as large and complex as the DRC six months in advance. This point must be systematically placed on the agenda of our bilateral contacts with the Congolese authorities. This election will certainly be a turning point, in any case, a potentially dangerous turn for the country, which could experience further unrest if it is poorly negotiated. Therefore, the Congolese authorities should be encouraged and supported to pave the way for elections in accordance with the Constitution and democratic principles so that the party can compete fairly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u102	Minister, thank you for your answers. I do not have a supplementary question at this time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u103	Madam Minister, the former Prime Minister of Catalonia, who is now a Member of the European Parliament, Carles Puigdemont, was arrested on Thursday 23 September on the Italian island of Sardinia. In March, at the request of Spain, the European Parliament voted on the lifting of Puigdemont's parliamentary immunity. Unfortunately, the majority voted in favour. The Spanish Supreme Court subsequently re-enforced the arrest warrant against the former regional president. It was on the basis of that arrest warrant that the Italian police arrested Puigdemont, but at the moment there is still proceedings before the European Court of Justice in Luxembourg against the lifting of Puigdemont's immunity and would therefore have been unjustly arrested. Puigdemont was released in the meantime, but the Italian court will consider Spain's European arrest warrant at the beginning of October and therefore whether it should be extradited or not. I have some questions for you. Since there is still a procedure in progress at the European Court of Justice in Luxembourg against the lifting of Puigdemont's immunity: what is the current state of affairs, have you been in contact with your colleague, Mr Van Quickenborne? How will you ensure from Belgium that, if Carles Puigdemont were to be extradited and imprisoned, his rights would be guaranteed? Have you been in contact with the Spanish authorities about this situation recently and/or have the dossier been discussed at international level?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u104	Madam Minister, since the question was put, the dossier has been moving again, albeit not fundamentally. I would like to recall and reiterate that we are talking about a fellow politician, elected in a democratic manner and persecuted for what, fortunately, is absolutely impossible to pursue. I was at that "infamous" referendum in Barcelona, according to the Spaniards. That was actually more of an expression of very broad citizens' commitment, regardless of the position they have on the issue. In the meantime, we have been going on for many years and what has just been said by my colleague has happened. In the meantime, as I understand it, he is once again on Belgian territory, but that does not mean that the stocking is finished. Hence my questions. What is our country's response to Mr Puigdemont's arrest? How do you talk to Spain about this? As far as European Member States are concerned, I believe that we should raise the bar on human rights. If it is shown that the arrest took place on an unlawful basis, will you then have European or bilateral consequences? What is your position and the government's position on the crackdown on Catalonia's peaceful pursuit for a particular political purpose? Once again, I am not asking for approval of that objective as such. Do you agree with me that the way in which the Catalan independence fighters are being dealt with is contrary to European values and that all means should be used to keep Spain better informed?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u105	Thank you for your questions. Mr Puigdemont was indeed arrested by the Italian authorities on his trip to Italy last week. He was released and will have to appear before a hearing in Italy on 4 October. According to information circulating in the press, he has returned to Belgium this week where, as you know, his residence is. On 30 July 2021, as regards its possible parliamentary immunity, the Court of Justice of the European Union rejected the application for suspension of the waiver of the immunity of Puigdemont. He had submitted an application for interim relief requesting the Vice-President of the Court to suspend the implementation of the European Parliament's decision to waive his immunity. The Court stated that, despite the rejection of the application for interim relief, Puigdemont may submit a new application if the alleged damage appears sufficiently likely, in particular in the case of arrest by an executing authority of a Member State or if steps are taken to deliver it to the Spanish authorities. The action for annulment of that decision is still pending. As you know, Belgium is attached to the principle of the separation of powers. The latest developments you mention relate to the Italian and Spanish courts. It is therefore not for me to comment on the current legal proceedings. With regard to the more general question of relations between the Spanish Government and the regional authorities of Catalonia, I note that dialogue is under way, which is a good thing. As far as the possible role of the European Union in this dialogue is concerned, it is an internal political issue and this issue is therefore not on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u106	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your reply. My party closely follows the evolution of the file. Last Friday, Carles Puigdemont was indeed released. The Italian court will, as already mentioned, examine the European Arrest Warrant of Spain at the beginning of October 2021 and therefore whether or not it should be extradited. Nevertheless, it is still hallucinating how, even in the European Union, where traditional parties have the mouths of human rights all over the world, they are barely awake to the persecution of Catalan nationalists. The only so-called crime committed by Puigdemont and his then government is to organise a referendum on Catalonia's independence. There is no doubt that the outcome of the referendum did not please the Spanish authorities. Spain brutally struck back with violence. The Catalan leaders were arrested or forced to flee abroad, as Puigdemont did. The latter may be sentenced to twenty-five years' imprisonment. Since Carles Puigdemont has been staying in Belgium for a long time and is therefore actually half a Fleming, I hope that you, together with your competent colleagues, will watch over a fair course of justice and not look the other way.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u107	Madam President, Minister, I had hoped that your answer would surprise me. That is not the case. You remain quite deaf and blind to the manifest violations of basic rights. I am particularly surprised that you refer to the case as an internal Spanish matter. I do not have the impression that you are showing such restraint when it comes to other EU Member States. Then you suddenly feel that you are interfering, let alone with countries far beyond the European Union. Madam Secretary, you measure with two sizes and two weights. You and the current government don't care about that. Within the European Union, a legitimate and non-violent political effort is being made by intimidation and violence. You respond to that as if you had nothing to do with it. I am very disappointed in your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u108	Madam Minister, my question is actually very much in line with the previous debate. What is happening in Catalonia is an internal matter, but if France misses out on a commercial deal, it is apparently not an internal matter, it is a matter of making statements about it and being resented. Here again we see the duality of the way in which it is reacted. We should not hide the fact that the relationship between the European Union and the United States has been under pressure since the AUKUS deal, which was discussed earlier this afternoon. It came to a high-rise riot with France. This is obviously not a purely internal matter. There was a threat that the Trade and Technology Council, which is normally due to take place shortly, would not take place. I think that's a strange attitude. Instead of sulking and risking such things, we should look into our own bosom, find out where it went wrong and look forward. It has just been said that this threat is completely out of the question, but I still hear rumors that France is not set up with the fact that it would continue. I hope so, we'll see. There is also the QUAD, the pact between the United States, Australia, India and Japan. So we see that the United States is starting to form all kinds of alliances, and the European Union is often not one of them. Hence my specific questions to you, Madam Secretary. How does the government and yourself see relations between the European Union and the United States evolve? After all, we can say that the European Union and the United States are natural partners. How do you see that relationship evolve in the future in view of events? What attitude should the European Union adopt towards the United States?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u109	Thank you, Mrs Van Bossuyt. With all due respect, I have to look very hard to find a link between the Spanish file we have discussed and the strategic developments in the Indo-Pacific, which we need to discuss between Europe and the United States. Anyway, it doesn't matter. Both from the European Union and from the new US administration, important efforts have been made from the beginning of this year to re-establish and strengthen transatlantic cooperation. The final declaration of the EU-US Summit of 15 June 2021 includes a comprehensive cooperation agenda for the post-pandemic era. Economics and trade, climate and environment, political and security cooperation form a comprehensive whole. The leaders also agreed to engage in regular dialogue on this subject and to assess progress. The exclusion of European interests and the lack of consultation for the announcement of the partnerships are sources of concern for Europe. With regard to the withdrawal from Afghanistan, we also note that decisions were taken which have a strong impact on the countries of the European Union. The Union and its Member States have every reason to request more dialogue from the United States and other relevant partners. However, it would not be wise today to suspend the transatlantic cooperation agenda. The European Union needs strong global partnerships to safeguard its interests. During an informal meeting in New York, I clearly experienced that the United States is an ally of our country. It is possible that our positions are not always the same, but we remain friendly states. I am very pleased that the first ministerial meeting of the Trade and Technology Council with the United States can take place as planned on 29 September. This Trade and Technology Council is the implementation of the positive trade agenda with the US that we have been advocating for a long time. In Pittsburgh, a number of first building blocks will be laid for cooperation in key areas such as investment screening, semiconductors, as well as global trade challenges. The negotiations on the Pittsburgh Declaration also gave us the opportunity to send clear European messages to our US partners. In the coming months, it will be necessary to see whether these good intentions will lead to genuinely enhanced cooperation between the US and the EU. At the same time, we will continue to emphasise the importance of a lasting solution to our bilateral trade disputes, including Section 232 on steel and aluminium measures. At the same time, the current evolution shows that the EU needs more than ever to strengthen and operationalise its own foreign and security policy in order to become a partner that cannot be ignored. This specific dossier shows in particular that this policy must also have a strong operational dimension in the field of defence. The debate on the European Union's strategic compass will also have to take place in the coming months. In particular, Belgium argues that this strategic compass should make a real difference, focus on concrete results and commitments, and that its implementation should also be monitored at the highest level, namely the European Council.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u110	Madam President, Minister, it is indeed important for the European Union to have the courage to look into and identify where it may have made mistakes, which means that the United States is now looking for other places and we were not aware of them. We must dare to identify where improvements are possible in the future. Indeed, we must move away from mere declarations and concrete actions to show that we are indeed a global player. As far as trade and technology are concerned, it is difficult to overestimate the importance of closer cooperation, just in the light of relations with China and China's influence. Strengthening mutual trade and technology links seems to me to be very important as a counterweight for China. This also applies to other areas, such as defence in the framework of NATO. These partnerships are unique. You rightly referred to the important role played by the United States for us after the Second World War and during the First World War. Do you think that with the new administration in the United States, there is a chance that negotiations on a trade agreement between the European Union and the United States, such as TTIP, will be restarted?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u111	Madam President, Mrs Van Bossuyt, I do not know, but I do know that there are a lot of discussions about our trade dispute. Before we negotiate anything else, we should first find a positive outcome to our current trade dispute, which is not small.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u112	Madam President, Mr Ben Achour, the situation in Myanmar continues to be very worrying despite the numerous calls for a return to democracy, the release of prisoners, the cessation of violence, respect for human rights and unhindered humanitarian access. These calls from multilateral forums such as the United Nations were also transmitted in early September to the Ambassador of Myanmar to Belgium. These concerns have led, in particular, to a strengthening of the arsenal of sanctions against the regime at the initiative of a number of international actors such as the European Union, the United States or the United Kingdom. The reports we receive from our post unfortunately confirm the situation described by the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights. With the services of the FPS Foreign Affairs, we continue to monitor the situation closely. We will support all initiatives that will be taken to find a solution to this crisis. With regard to your question on the representation of Myanmar in the United Nations, it is the Credentials Committee that will have to deal with the question of competing credentials received by the United Nations in the case of Myanmar. The nine elected members of the Committee for the 76th session of the General Assembly will be Sierra Leone, Namibia, China, Russia, Bhutan, the Bahamas, Chile, Sweden and the United States, the latter chairing the Committee. Belgium is therefore not a member. Normally, the Credentials Committee meets only once a year to report on credentials received from individual delegations for the annual session of the United Nations General Assembly. This meeting is normally held in November or December in order to collect a maximum of letters of credit submitted or at the opening of the session in mid-September. It is therefore likely that the Credentials Committee will not really deal with the matter until November or December. If the question of representation were to reach the United Nations General Assembly following a report by that Commission, Belgium would advocate that the States members of the European Union should consult each other in order to adopt a common approach.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u113	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I have no further comments to make.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u114	Madam President, Madam Minister, in Tunisia, the years of political crises, corruption, clientelism and the absence of proposals for a solution on the part of Parliament in particular allowed President Kais Saïed to freeze this assembly on 25 July 2021 for a period of 30 days, according to what he had said at the time. [[.]] This kind of institutional coup was rather well received by Tunisians, the president having justified himself by hammering his will to end the corrupt elites, in a form of direct connection with the people. Two months later, Kais Saïed attacked the Constitution this time. In fact, last week, he had a decree published which replaces various chapters of it, containing – I quote – "exceptional measures". They perpetuate the freezing of Parliament, enable it to legislate by decree, to preside over the Council of Ministers and to enact laws in all fields. On Saturday, some 20 Tunisian and international human rights organisations ransacked in a press release "the seizure of power" by the President, whom they described as an "unprecedented drive". Around 2,000 demonstrators in Tunis denounced – I quote – "power in the hands of one man", saying that they feared "a return to Ben Ali's dictatorship". Minister, what is Belgium's position on the development of the situation in Tunisia? How do you look at the long-term strengthening of the President's powers? Do you think that we are facing the end of the democratic experience in Tunisia?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u115	Mr Ben Achour, we are following closely the situation in Tunisia. I don't know if you've ever asked a question about this, but at the beginning of this episode, at the end of July, I already phoned my Tunisian counterpart and asked him about our questions about the progress of things on the spot. During my speech, I stressed the importance of having a perspective on the resumption of Parliament's work and of seeing how things could resume their normal course. It is interesting to know that, in response to this appeal, I wished to meet with my counterpart on the margins of the United Nations meeting this week in New York. In fact, contrary to what he had told me during our telephone conversation at the end of July, during which he told me that the situation was perfectly temporary and that a solution was soon to be found - I still remember - within the days or even the hours that would follow, we could see that the situation was not normal. The fact is that the meeting took place before it was found that the President had consolidated the current situation, making it no longer temporary, without the timing foreseen for the resumption of parliamentary work, saying that he would govern by presidential decree. This has somewhat distorted the discussion I may have had with my counterpart, but it does not change the substance. In substance, I had already told him, even before learning this, that we felt that Parliament is the heart of democracy and that, as such, it must resume its work as soon as possible. This is something we are not giving up on. We regret this situation and I find it very difficult, if not unacceptable, to accept it. We ask for a return to normal and, to do so, if a trajectory is required, for it to be announced. The difficulty here is that decisions are taken, but we do not see the political horizon and the return to constitutional order and institutional stability, which is really a subject of questioning. I would ask that this issue be addressed at European level because I believe that a European response is needed to reaffirm, together, our commitment to the functioning of democratic institutions in all countries, including Tunisia.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u116	Minister, thank you very much for this answer, which I found very spontaneous and very sincere. Tunisia is a particular country, small country stuck between giants, giants in structural instability. It is a country without its own natural resources, but it is also a country that was the first to make its democratic revolution and the only Arab country to have succeeded. Simply speaking, democracy is a long process which can sometimes be very impatient and which, in Tunisia, has not brought the fruits of its development quickly enough. That is why, in my view, we must continue to support the Tunisian people who are suffering enormously today. I fully share your concern about what can be considered an illiberal if not authoritarian form of drift with this kind of pretension of the President to embody the people, ignoring the intermediate powers, the trade unions and civil society which, as you know, is very active in Tunisia. We must therefore pay close attention to what is happening in Tunisia, because I believe that there is indeed a risk of a return to the old regime, or even to the old regime at worst, on the basis of those promises that democracy has not yet succeeded in keeping in the country, in any case in a concrete and visible way for the population. I therefore continue to pay close attention to the issue. I have Tunisian origins by my father who still lives there and who tells me about the difficulties the country is currently experiencing. I was very pleased to see how the whole Tunisian political field had begun to make this democratic transition, including the representatives of political Islam who, at the time, had shown a form of maturity, revising their own charter, etc. and promoting this transition. In the executive management of the country, they screwed up. It is up to the voters to punish and not to a providential man who claims to be able to change things by himself by claiming from the people. Let us therefore continue to work together on this very important subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u117	I would like to refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u118	The Belgian delegation did not meet bilaterally with the US Government in the framework of the United Nations Ministerial Week in New York. During the Universal Periodic Review in November 2020, Belgium made a recommendation to the US to ensure that any accusation of excessive use of force by police officers is promptly and effectively investigated. The United States has accepted that recommendation. The images of the thousands of Haitian immigrants being chased away by police patrols in Texas are shocking. The White House spokeswoman criticised the approach of border agents. The Minister of Homeland Security immediately contacted the independent Bureau of the Inspector General and initiated an internal investigation into the events. The results of the investigation will be made public. Furthermore, the patrols on horseback in the area were stopped. The agents involved in the incidents have been assigned administrative tasks and no longer deal with migrants as long as the investigation is ongoing. As is clear from the various ongoing investigations I mentioned, the US authorities are therefore taking responsibility for this dossier. This has shown that a call for sanctions is not the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u119	I think I can draw the same conclusion once again from this conclusion. If, for example, Russia or China were to commit only a fraction of these human rights violations as happened here in relation to refugees fleeing natural disasters and their country of violence, our country would strongly condemn those crimes and, presumably, even call for sanctions. Our allies, on the other hand, are constantly getting carte blanche when it comes to human rights. I take note of that again.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-28-definitief-55-commissie-ic579x.u120	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Rohonyi's 55021175C and 55021181C were postponed.
