ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic365x.u1	Mr President, Minister, I may not be the only one who knows people who have been banned on Facebook or Twitter for a period of time over the last few days and weeks, and who have been deprived of the use of these media because Facebook or Twitter was offended by a message or a Tweet. In the United States there is a great deal going on, but we too are getting more and more stringent. Quoting a phrase from classical literature sometimes suffices to be caught by an algorithm on the use of a term that is considered suspicious today. One can appeal against that. I would like to point out that the social media giants today have a kind of monopoly on an important part of the communication and information sharing of citizens. As a result, they are actually more than ordinary private companies. Citizens and users can therefore appeal against the temporary removal of social media, but this can usually only be done in English. There is therefore a language barrier and actually a social barrier, because not everyone is equally linguistic. A certain professional possibility is thus denied to social media users. Minister, you are also responsible for consumer affairs. What do you think about the fact that the social media giants cannot speak to users in Belgium in their own language? What steps do you intend to take to urge large media companies to give everyone the opportunity to appeal against a particular ban, whatever their mother tongue?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic365x.u2	Mr President, Mr De Roover, this is a general problem: the effectiveness of citizens' right to challenge the actions of intermediaries in moderating content on the Internet. In the example you cite, you draw attention to the fact that a dispute over a publication on Facebook can only be done in English. This may indeed deter some users from asserting their rights. As far as freedom of expression is concerned, and the means of ensuring that this fundamental right is respected in its own language, I refer to my colleague, the Minister of Justice, who is competent in this area. There is no special provision in economic law, either at European level or at national level, which gives citizens the right to express themselves in their own language in the context of a commercial relationship or in relation to an economic player. The recent proposal for a European regulation, the digital services act, does not include such an obligation, even for large online platforms. Although the obligation to use all the EU's national languages at first sight would appear desirable for European consumers, this would also be a heavy burden on economic players, especially SMEs. It would have undesirable effects, such as more difficult market access and price increases. However, this does not mean that citizens do not have legal remedies in their own language. Article 18 of the Digital Services Act provides that disputes must be dealt with in at least one official language of the European Union. Article 43 gives the user the right to address the digital services coordinator of the country in which he is staying. These issues are currently being discussed at European level. If the citizen raises the matter with national courts or authorities, he can, of course, defend himself in his own language.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic365x.u3	Minister, your answer raises questions in particular. You are actually saying that the digital services act does not seem to offer any guarantees to all Europeans in order to exercise their rights in their own language. Secondly, you pointed out that a certain language requirement has undesirable effects. May I point out that the lack of citizens' right to appeal to Facebook, for example, in their own language, has a particularly undesirable effect, namely manifest discrimination? Depending on the mother tongue, people may or may not be able to fully defend their rights to freedom of expression, at a monopolist in this case. That is unacceptable. I will take further initiatives on this, but I am counting on you to ensure at European level that all language users throughout Europe can fully exercise their rights in their own mother tongue. I will, of course, also question Minister Van Quickenborne on this. Discrimination against people based on their language is absolutely unacceptable. I hope that this line will also be drawn consistently by the government at all levels.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic365x.u4	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, as part of the government agreement, we have committed ourselves to implementing measures to combat planned obsolescence in the interests of a more circular economy. Recently, I was able to read in the press that Vanden Borre's home appliances company now offers its customers a subscription that will allow their large appliances to be repaired indefinitely. This is good news, but in order to facilitate the repair of products, it is imperative to ensure the availability of spare parts. Minister, my questions are as follows. In the context of the European Green Deal, what measures are you planning to put in place to eliminate this scourge, and in particular, how do you intend to bring them back to the European level? What specific measures will be taken to ensure the availability of spare parts on household, audiovisual and computer products?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic365x.u5	Mr Minister, I would like to ask you about the problem of programmed aging of devices. 200 million smartphones are sold every year. One of the few good news from 2020 was that we do on average three years with our smartphone. That's a little longer than usual, whereas those devices can actually last five to six years. The European Ecodesign Directive, which we still have to transpose into Belgian legislation, mainly talks about electronic devices such as TVs and washing machines. Smartphones aren't there. It is interesting that a report on the sustainable single market has recently been adopted in the European Parliament, in which people go a little further. Perhaps we should take that into account and be a little more ambitious in that regard with Belgium. I believe that the programmable time of aircraft is a sign of great injustice, both to the user and to the environment. My questions are in line with those of the previous speaker. Where do you stand on the transposition of that directive? Do you have a little more ambition? Mr Khattabi has already said a lot about circular economy. What about those plans? Will you indeed do something about the problem of planned aging?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic365x.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. The circular economy starts at the very beginning of the chain, in the phase of product design. This phase is essential to facilitate the re-use, dismantling, repair and revision of a product. France, for its part, has just introduced a repair score which must indicate to what extent electrical appliances can be repaired. The aim is to provide consumers and producers with an effective lever for the circular economy. This device, if it proves to be effective, should in my view be combined with information on the life of the products and, in particular, on the availability of the different spare parts. The government as a whole is involved in a transition to a more sustainable society – as you know, Mr Verduyckt – and I will shortly be presenting with my colleague Zakia Khattabi an action plan for the circular economy. We have already had contacts with the Central Economic Council and the Federal Council for Sustainable Development. We can already rely on two European directives, as you mentioned, to combat the planned obsolescence. First, Directive 2019/771 on certain aspects relating to contracts for the sale of goods. It should allow consumers to have repairs, replacements or refunds made easier when buying a defective product. Secondly, and as you also mentioned, the Ecodesign Directive, which aims to extend the lifespan of products placed on the market and to facilitate their repair and which contains several normative measures. I am also investigating the possibility of entering a product passport, so that all useful information to get the product repaired is available to the consumer. And to return to the federal plan for the circular economy, of course, my colleague Khattabi and I will defend, define and present the various priorities in the coming weeks. We will come back with great pleasure to discuss, with the various members of the commission concerned, the priorities set by the government as part of this federal plan for the circular economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic365x.u7	Minister, thank you for the good news. Finally, I look forward to this circular that you are preparing with Minister Khattabi. I also ask you to work at European level with your colleagues to ensure that the single market is also directed in this direction of the circular economy. I think that every country must push in the same direction so that the boat moves – it is a big ship – towards a more sustainable society, less consuming natural resources for our future generations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic365x.u8	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. First of all, I think the repair score is a very interesting idea. I've been working on sustainability and environmental impact for a long time. Many people often ask me what they can do as a simple consumer. Not everyone is doing that, but we need to inform the people who want to make fair and good and sustainable choices. The repair score in France could be a very interesting example. So I'm glad you brought that up. Secondly, you are working on the framework that Europe offers you, and that seems to me to be very good: good information for consumers and for repairers, so that they can keep the products going longer. I hear you saying you'll be happy to come back. I come with great pleasure to listen to you to test how you will address the problem of planned aging, which I think is an unfair commercial practice.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic365x.u9	Minister, the government agreement contains a passage on so-called dormant energy contracts. These are products that suppliers no longer actively offer and which are often very expensive but are still charged to many Belgian families and SMEs. Your colleague van Energie Van der Straeten has already taken action together with you and Secretary of State De Bleecker. In the short term, it would like an agreement with the sector to put an end to the dormant energy contracts. Our party is satisfied with this because every possible step must be examined and then taken. However, we believe that the abolition of dormant energy contracts should also be enshrined in law. The CREG has also been asking for this for years. Mr Verduyckt has prepared a legislative proposal for this, and I think I can say that most groups agree on the principle that something urgently needs to be done about this. We heard that consultation shows that two energy companies are ready to take action. However, the company MEGA, a supplier who also did not sign the consumer agreement, is not prepared to do so. That is why, together with your colleagues, you decided to engage the Economic Inspectorate. I have a few questions about this. Firstly, what is the precise mission of the Economic Inspectorate? At what time do you expect results? Secondly, while the dormant energy contracts are not desirable, they are currently not legally prohibited. What can the Economic Inspectorate do in this respect exactly?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic365x.u10	Thank you for your question, Mrs Depraetere. The CREG study of 17 December 2020 shows that there may be a lack of transparency towards consumers regarding the conditions of the so-called "sleeping renewal products" of certain energy suppliers. These would be specific renewal contracts on which existing customers whose current contract reaches the end date would be renewed. This type of contract would not be actively offered to new customers and would not appear in the results of the price comparison. It is possible that the consumer is misled about, among other things, the price, the name and the terms of these contracts, which would also infringe the provisions of the Code of Economic Law. That is why I have ordered the Economic Inspectorate to carry out an investigation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic365x.u11	Thank you, Minister, for that clarification. You just didn't say anything about the timing. Is there a timetable available against when results are expected? Not yet? Then we'll talk about that later in this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic365x.u12	Mr President, Minister, the past year has been a very difficult financial year for our citizens. Many of them have experienced a decline in their income, have been forced into partial unemployment or have experienced a slowdown in their entrepreneurial activities. As a result, some of them are currently finding it difficult to repay their real estate credit. By the end of October, the Centrale des crédits aux particuliers de la Banque Nationale had already registered about 28,000 mortgage loans with a delay of payment. In order to prevent the situation from getting worse, both the previous and the current government have allowed mortgage repayments to be postponed. For example, more than 120,000 people made use of this measure, for an average amount of €104,255 per mortgage credit. As a result of this measure, 120,000 people have been able to relieve their end of the month. Nevertheless, despite the establishment of a regulatory framework around this moratorium, citizens do not have the guarantee today that they will be granted a carry-over of their appropriations. The current regulations do not introduce any rights to this moratorium. The banks therefore remain in control of the assessment of the borrower's risk and repayment capacity. They are therefore free to refuse the carry-over of credit. Minister, this situation is detrimental to many citizens who are penalized by the crisis. It should be recalled that if the bank refuses to grant a moratorium, CPAS will be forced to support citizens. What monitoring is being carried out to verify that banks apply the rules in force? Were complaints lodged and, if so, what follow-up? What is the government's room for manoeuvre following a refusal to postpone mortgage credit? Are you considering establishing an agreement with banking agencies to clarify the situations that allow this postponement?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic365x.u13	Mr President, with regard to credit to individuals, banks and credit companies are based on a charter relating to the deferral of payment of mortgage credit. This charter gave concrete expression to a commitment made by the Minister of Finance, the National Bank of Belgium and Febelfin. This commitment was intended to provide financial support to those exposed to problems resulting from the health crisis. Subsequently, the Law of 20 December 2020 on Temporary Support Measures for the VOCID-19 Pandemic, in its article 60, inserted in the Code of Economic Law an article VII.145/1 by which an extension of the duration or a temporary suspension of payment may be granted for certain mortgage loans. This provision takes over the cumulative conditions that the lessee must meet in order to obtain a deferral of payment. The deferral of payment is therefore applicable only in certain cases and under certain conditions. The criteria for application are objective and leave little room for manoeuvre for banking bodies in assessing the application for deferral of payments. Any refusal to postpone must be based on non-compliance with one of these objective conditions. In addition, new Article VII.145/1 states through Article VII.133 that banks and credit companies may not refuse the deferral of payment on the sole ground that the borrower cannot afford to repay his credit. Monitoring of compliance with this agreement by banks and credit companies is carried out by the Economic Inspectorate on the basis of complaints transmitted to it. Since March 2020, the Economic Inspectorate has received about ten complaints of refusal to pay a mortgage credit. All these complaints have been thoroughly investigated. Only five of these alerts did indeed concern the application of the Charter. After investigation, they were classified without further action on the grounds of unmet objective conditions or the resolution of a problem related to the submission of the application. The only room for manoeuvre available to the services of the Economic Inspectorate is to verify that refusals to postpone are justified by failure to comply with one of the objective conditions. The charter I mentioned above is – as you know – an agreement between the Minister of Finance, the National Bank and the financial sector to ensure assistance to those affected by the current crisis. However, it is clear that this Charter must be applied flexibly by the various banks to enable those facing the consequences of the health crisis to go through it without adding economic and social consequences to this health crisis and the already difficult situation faced by a large part of the population.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic365x.u14	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your answer. It is true that the crisis of the covid-19 led to the unexpected decline in the incomes of several citizens in households. It is sufficient that the income of one of its members has diminished or disappeared to put the whole family at risk and plunge it into a precarious situation. I am therefore pleased to note that you are attentive to the correct application, with some flexibility, of the charter relating to the postponement of payment of appropriations. It is true that, at this difficult time, it is important to ensure that people affected by the crisis have access to their rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic365x.u15	Minister, Belgium has an open economy, so foreign investment is of course extremely important. At the same time, however, we must also be vigilant for investments from third countries which could harm our fundamental interests. Some third countries want to influence our businesses through certain activities, which could jeopardise our security and public order. Several European Member States and countries outside the EU are therefore developing a kind of screening mechanism. The previous Minister of Economy has already worked on such a screening mechanism to protect national security and public order. In discussing your policy paper, you indicated that you also have the ambition to test investment in our country against the need to ensure our national security, especially in the strategic activities. I am, of course, positive about that, and hence a number of questions about the state of play. What steps have you taken in the meantime to introduce such a mechanism in consultation with the Länder? What is the situation with the Länder and what are their results? What steps are you planning to take to implement such a mechanism in consultation with the Länder? In short, what is the current state of play and what is the future timing for such a screening mechanism?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic365x.u16	Mrs Dierick, on the basis of the work of the previous government, a number of meetings were already held in this legislature with the main partners, both at the federal and sub-state level. The purpose of these meetings was to establish a constructive dialogue between the various institutional actors in contact with foreign direct investment and to examine its possible impact on our national security. The various bilateral contacts with the representatives of the Länder show a shared concern about the potential impact that certain controversial foreign investments could have on our national security, especially in the strategic and critical sectors. Therefore, everyone is convinced that a screening mechanism here can serve as a tool to significantly reduce such risks. It is therefore possible to work constructively and seriously towards a balanced solution with the various partners. The government will then consider what further steps can be taken to arrive at a supported screening mechanism as soon as possible. A preliminary draft law, which has already been submitted to the Council of State, and a cooperation agreement, is currently being worked on. In view of the ongoing negotiations on this issue and the complexity of the dossier, it is not possible to put concrete timing first. Every effort is made to roll out a balanced and workable screening mechanism as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic365x.u17	Minister, I am pleased that you have already taken steps, that the consultation is progressing constructively and that everyone is convinced of the need for a screening mechanism. There is no concrete timing yet, but we hope that it will move forward quickly and come to committee. At least we'll keep following up on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic365x.u18	Mr President, Minister, I asked you a question earlier, but I could not be present at the time. In the answer then, you spoke about the important transposition and timing. There is some movement in the field of online copyright. There's been a lot of discussion in Australia. Australia is competing with Google in relation to those snippets, those short news reports. Google is trying to put pressure on the Australians by threatening to close the country, but I'd like to see that again. On the other hand, there is an interesting case in France. There, the publishers have signed an agreement with Google. I think that's what they did to get ahead of the directive a little bit. You can see there's a lot of movement. We too are going to have to transpose the EU directive on digital copyright. There's an opinion from the Intellectual Property Council, you know that. What are you gonna do with that? Do you intend to implement this directive in its entirety? Or do you think there will be adjustments? In the latter case, it will be interesting, even for us here in Parliament, to see what adjustments there may be and how we can discuss them. How do you see it? Do you think there will be any changes to the text? If so, how are you going to discuss this with Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic365x.u19	Mr President, Minister, this is a rather technical dossier, or so it seems at first sight. I myself have been negotiating in the European Parliament for our group. It sounds very technical, but can have very concrete consequences in practice.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic365x.u20	Mr President, Mr Verduyckt and Mrs Van Bossuyt, thank you for your questions. Mr Verduyckt, like you, I am convinced of the need to implement the EU Directive 2019/790 quickly. I submitted the transposition text to the Data Protection Authority for advice. The opinion should be delivered by 26 February 2021. In parallel, the Cabinet of Justice was consulted on the same day. On the basis of that consultation, the text needs to be amended on a number of points. I hope that discussions at the Council of Ministers level can begin at the beginning of February 2021. I hope to be able to receive the opinion of the Council of State in April 2021 and to submit a draft law to Parliament in May 2021. Mrs Van Bossuyt, when a legislative proposal is submitted to Parliament, all your questions can be discussed, both technical and fundamental. I am thinking in particular of the relations between publishers and journalists, the relations between publishers and web giants, the meaning of the directive and the transposition text of concepts such as 'hyperlinking','very short fragments of a press release' or 'work everything'. Finally, I am thinking about the form the licences will take with the sharing websites. In the meantime, you can find a lot of information about these elements in the opinion of the Intellectual Property Council, which is available on the website of the FPS Economy. Mr Verduyckt, I can reassure you. The transposition text will consolidate the position of the media. That position will also reassure you, Mrs Van Bossuyt. At least I hope so. My cabinet also had the opportunity to reassure the newspaper publishers, who met it on 22 January 2021. Mr Verduyckt, on the involvement of stakeholders, I can inform you that my administration and the cabinet have had constant contacts with them. This consultation resulted in a detailed opinion, drawn up after twelve meetings of the Intellectual Property Council. The opinion contains the views of the various stakeholders and is available on the website of the FPS Economy. I believe that the legislative proposal represents a balanced compromise between the different expectations, taking into account what is possible. It is up to Parliament to decide whether it wants to organise consultations or whether the opinion of the Intellectual Property Council is sufficient.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic365x.u21	Thank you, Minister. Mr Van Bossuyt says it is a very technical matter. That is true, of course, but it is also a comprehensive matter, and one that we encounter every day, especially in our current online lives. It is therefore particularly important. It's about music, it's about art, it's about journalists. You yourself referred to the journalists. Why is this so important to me? I believe that we can only win the fight against fake news, against shady news sites online, with qualitative journalism. Qualitative journalism means that journalists must be properly compensated for the contribution they make. What is happening in France is an agreement between the publishers and Google. The journalists are not directly involved. They are still negotiating with their publisher, but of course they are much weaker. That is why it is important for us to be able to make good agreements on this matter, Minister. I hear you say that a draft law will come to Parliament and that we will have time to discuss it with each other. I will be very happy to enter into this debate, even though it may be a technical debate at times, because this is simply too important not to think about it thoroughly. Which has already happened for a piece, of course.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic365x.u22	Thank you, Minister, for your answer, or for your answer on the issues you have already been able to answer. The timing is certainly clear: by May we can expect the bill, if I understand correctly. It is particularly important that we do not create additional barriers for people to have access to news. We live in the 21st century, where there are new opportunities, new channels to access news. I do not think that we should make access to it more difficult. I agree with Mr Verduyckt when he says that qualitative journalism is important in the fight against fake news and so on, but the pendulum can go a little crazy. I am not talking about this dossier, but about the digital services act, for which negotiations have now started at European level, and which I am sure we will also be discussing here in Parliament. It is a directive. So there really is still room for interpretation. For example: what is meant by'very short fragments' or 'doing everything' by the Belgian government. 'I am certainly looking forward to the way in which you will interpret and apply this, and also to the follow-up of the discussion on this subject. It is important in practice.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic365x.u23	Minister, I refer again to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic365x.u24	Mrs Van Bossuyt, the problem of fraudulent lenders is well known to my services. Anyone facing it as a consumer can report it to the hotline. As a result, the FPS Economy and the FSMA can take the necessary measures and try to prevent others from falling into the trap. Sensitisation and prevention are essential in the fight against fraudulent credits. Several public administrations are committed to this. For example, the FPS Economy and the FSMA warn of fraudulent credit offers via their websites, press releases and social networks. The FSMA website lists all entities for which a warning has been published. On the site, the consumer can also do a test to assess whether an offer may be fraudulent. The Economic Inspectorate shall inform the relevant actors, such as hosting providers, and banks about the mode operandi of fraudsters. When Belgian bank accounts appear in the files, the holders of those bank accounts are identified by the Economic Inspectorate. An investigation is then initiated and the file is delivered to the parquet and to the Financial Information Processing Cell. The FSMA analyzes the content of all received notifications. Where the FSMA has evidence of fraud in a file, it shall deliver the file to the public prosecutor. In addition, when publishing a warning about a particular entity, the FSMA requests the judicial authorities to block access to that entity's fraudulent website. In 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019 respectively, the hotline received 63, 71, 98 and 125 notifications of fraudulent credits, a clear increase. In 2020, 216 reports were reported. That is an important increase. Since the FSMA has been competent, it has received a total of 467 notifications from consumers about counterfeit credits. It is not clear whether the increase is due to an effective increase in the number of fraudulent credit offers or to the fact that people consult the FSMA more quickly after the publication of warnings. As regards future measures, an awareness campaign specifically on fraudulent credits will be developed by the FPS Economy in 2021. The FSMA will distribute animated films to inform consumers in an accessible manner about the different types of online fraud, including fraudulent credit offers. Finally, the FPS Economy and the FSMA will also actively cooperate with the financial sector in 2021 to monitor the evolution of the phenomenon and coordinate their preventive measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic365x.u25	Thank you, Minister, for your very comprehensive answer. The figures show a marked increase: of the 467 notifications since the FSMA was responsible, 216 date from 2020. That's almost half in the past year. That is why such an awareness-raising campaign is certainly to be welcomed. We find that fraudsters are also becoming more professional. As a result, more and more people fall into the trap. So we certainly need to keep an eye on the problem and raise awareness about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic365x.u26	Mrs Van Bossuyt, as mentioned in the coalition agreement, I will pay due attention to the right to be forgotten. However, this should be done within the framework of the current regulation, providing for a strict procedure for the evaluation and adjustment of the reference schedules. The law provides that the Federal Health Knowledge Centre will evaluate these reference schedules every two years. That evaluation should be carried out in the light of medical progress and available scientific data. The Knowledge Centre will then submit a proposal for the adaptation of the reference schedules to the Tariffing Follow-up Office. The website of the KCE states that such a study is ongoing. As part of the evaluation, it may be envisaged, inter alia, to adjust the time limits for certain cancers in so far as this can be justified on the basis of scientific data. In addition, the KCE has launched a call for proposals for new diseases, which may be eligible for inclusion in the reference schedules after examination. The proposals had to be submitted before 22 January 2021. The selection and ranking of research proposals can therefore only take place now. I will await a possible proposal from the KCE, accompanied by the advice of the Follow-up Office, in order to be able to amend the legislation. Afterwards, it will also be examined whether it is possible to extend the right to be forgotten to other health insurances. I will ask the Committee on Insurance for advice on this. I do not have any figures showing the effect of the right to be forgotten on the insurability of ex-cancer patients. As a reminder, the law has been applicable since 1 February 2020 and the reference schedules since 1 April 2020. The rules are therefore less than a year old, which makes it difficult to draw any conclusions. I'm not aware of any complaints to date. The legislator has deliberately chosen to retain the obligation to communicate. The obligation to notify is a protective measure for the prospective insurer. The legislator wanted to avoid that a prospective insurance company would wrongly not report certain backgrounds to the insurer, which should have been reported. In such a case, the prospective insurer would be exposed to the consequences of concealment or incorrect communication of information, for example an amendment or the annulment of the contract. In order to protect the prospective policyholders from this, the legislation lays down a responsibility not to take account of certain backgrounds with the insurer. So I do not think it is appropriate to abolish the obligation to communicate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic365x.u27	Minister, we had a first discussion in our committee this morning of a proposal concerning the right to be forgotten. I understand that it is still a little early for the figures on possible complaints, because on 1 February the law was only in force for a year. However, I find it strange that you see the usefulness of reporting as a means of protecting insurers. The right to be forgotten has just been introduced to ensure that, for example, ex-cancer patients no longer have to suffer the consequences of the disease they have had and do not have to walk around for life with a stamp on their forehead. If you say that the obligation to notify is there to protect insurers, it is contrary to the principle and purpose of the right to be forgotten. I think that is a strange argument, which is why we tabled an amendment this morning to have no reporting obligation, following the example of what is applicable in France and the Netherlands. It is important to consider that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic365x.u28	Mr President, Mrs Van Bossuyt, as you all know, since 1 January 2021 the United Kingdom has no longer been part of the customs union and the internal market of the European Union. Since then, the EU-UK Trade and Cooperation Agreement, the Agreement, has also entered into force for the time being. You asked me about the webshops. The agreement allows UK companies to export tariff-free goods to Belgium or the EU. However, in order to benefit from tariff-free exports, goods exported must be of preferential origin, i.e. British. For example, when a British webshop sells goods of Chinese origin, customs duties are due. They will probably be passed on to the customer. In the case of goods of preferential origin, the necessary evidence shall be provided. There too, of course, the appropriate customs procedures must be followed. These administrative burdens are probably also passed on to consumers. No reports have so far been received at the FPS Economy hotline on this particular problem in the context of the Brexit. The FOD Economy has a Brexit Contact Center and a Brexit website has been created with detailed information. The FAQ contains answers to frequently asked questions from companies, self-employed persons and consumers. With regard to online purchases, it is stated that the consumer may have to pay import duties from 1 January 2021. For more information, please refer to my colleague Van Peteghem, Minister of Finance. There are also consequences for the transport of goods. The movement of goods shall be subject to customs procedures and to the corresponding administrative formalities. The agreement relates only to tariff-free trade between the United Kingdom and the EU, but not to formalities. For more information, please refer again to my colleague Van Peteghem. You also had a question about the price of fish. Since the provisional entry into force of the Agreement, customs procedures for imports of fish have been more stringent. The impact is a volume decrease of about 40% of the quantity of fish delivered to Flemish and European ports and fewer fish are caught in British waters. However, due to the corona pandemic and the closure of the Belgian restaurant there is no pressure on the fish price. The price at the Flemish Fish auction fell from an average of 4.59 euros per kilo last year to 3.37 euros per kilo at the moment. The evolution of the average price in 2020 was similar to that of 2019. The provisional price of January 2021 is lower than that of January 2020 and comparable to that of 2018 and 2019. It is to be expected that the price will rise again, as soon as the catering industry opens the doors again. However, the price adjustment is not dependent on the Brexit. The customs documents offered in European ports sometimes contain errors on the part of the UK. This, of course, slows down the customs clearance of the fish. Other issues, such as the decoupling of British and European databases, also slow down the customs clearance procedure, which in turn increases administrative costs for businesses. I come to your question about the extent to which companies are familiar with the agreement and the new rules. Many companies, mainly SMEs, and especially those who so far only exported to the UK, are currently too little familiar with trading outside the borders of the European Union. The fact that the UK was considered an EU Member State with free movement of goods during a transition period until the end of December 2020 makes the situation even more complex. According to the agreement, companies can export tariff-free goods to the UK, if they are of preferential origin, of EU origin. A mixed origin and the payment of partial customs duties, as mentioned in the question, are therefore not possible. I am fully aware that many companies have no experience of the origin of goods and the customs procedures associated with them. The FPS Economy anticipated this problem long before the end of the transition period. Both during the negotiations between the EU and the UK and now in the provisional application of the agreement, my administration maintains close contacts with the main sector federations and with the FPS Finance Customs. On the basis of the input, it has also been regularly linked back to the European Commission in order to take into account the issues raised in the negotiations. Even before the agreement was concluded, the FPS Economy organised webinars in collaboration with partners to inform and support the companies concerned. In January, five webinars were also provided, each for thirty to three hundred attendees. In February, a seminar will be held at the Export Fair of Flanders Investment & Trade, FIT. As mentioned above, there is also the Brexit Contact Center and a Brexit website with FAQs is available. For specific questions, companies can also contact the experts of the Origin cell of the FPS Economy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic365x.u29	Minister, one of the important problems which, of course, was difficult to anticipate because the final agreement was not clear at the time, has a lot to do with these rules of origin and preferential origin. Only now, with the final agreement, is it clear that those rules also apply effectively. However, there is still no complete clarity as to the percentage to be produced in the European Union or the United Kingdom in order to benefit from the rules. After all, products are often made up of items of different origin, from China, from the European Union and so on. The question then often arises as to the relationship between these rules of origin. The necessary negotiations will have to be held. In particular, clarity is needed for companies. For import duties and customs formalities, please refer to Mr Van Peteghem. It is strange that I first asked you the question, which was referred to Mr Van Peteghem's cabinet, who then referred to you again. We have therefore tried, but he seems to think that that competence lies with you. So I don't have an answer to that right now. As feared, Minister, the Brexit has an impact on fisheries. There are provisional agreements on quotas. Forty percent less fish supply is a lot. I am pleased that this does not affect the price for the time being. We certainly need to keep following this closely. But you are right that the reopening of the catering industry will have a beneficial effect on the price of the fish. You say that the UK's customs documents sometimes contain errors. At present, the sanitary and phytosanitary rules in the UK are still largely the same as in the EU. The fear is that they may differ more in the future, which will make customs formalities even more difficult. This point certainly needs to be taken into account, especially since it is already difficult to do so. As regards companies and their familiarity with the rules in force, you say that exporters are still too little aware of them. You have already taken initiatives, but I urge you to continue to follow them closely. You know the proverb time is money. In order to continue to trade as smoothly as possible, exporters need to know very well what the rules in force are.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic365x.u30	Mr President, Mrs Van Bossuyt, the Price Observatory is constantly following consumer prices, based on the HICP, Harmonised Indices of Consumer Prices. Within the HICP, for the category of non-energy industrial goods, all non-food goods and energy products shall be followed. This product group includes clothing and footwear, household goods, sports and leisure goods and computer products. The average inflation rate for non-energy industrial goods in 2020 was 0,7 %, which is lower than the average annual growth rate for the 2015-2020 period, which was 0,9 %. In November and December 2020 the inflation rate for this product group was 0,7 % and 0,6 % respectively. On the basis of the latest available statistics, the product groups to which products are mainly imported from China, such as clothing and footwear, computers and televisions, do not yet show any significant price increases due to increased container tariffs. However, I am aware of the problem of the price increase of containers. It is very likely that this increase will also increase the price of certain goods. However, everything seems to indicate that this price increase will be temporary. The Prize Observatory is constantly following the price evolution of these goods. As soon as significant signals are detected that there are price increases in these non-energy industrial goods, the Price Observatory will be able to examine the underlying factors. You are proposing measures on labour law. However, the problem of the price increase of containers is not linked to labour law. Everything seems to indicate that this is a logistical problem concerning the competitiveness of products of Chinese origin. It is true that the price increase of Chinese goods can have negative consequences in Belgium, especially for companies importing these products and consumers. I can assure you that I will follow closely the problem of transport costs. I would like to point out that this is not just a problem in Belgium. I will therefore ask the services of the European Commission if they are aware of this problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic365x.u31	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. At the end of 2020, I have already asked you a question about this. Then you said that there might be consequences for the consumer. Now you say there are no significant price increases. That doesn't match what I'm hearing about it. Due to the increased transport costs, and because it takes so long, the cost of a fitness equipment for example increased by 15%. A television set now costs 30 euros more. In my view, these are price increases which are the result of increased container prices. I think we should keep an eye on this to see how it evolves further.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic365x.u32	This is a rather comprehensive question, Minister. That is why I would like to refer to my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic365x.u33	Thank you for your question, Mrs Dierick. The disappearance of printers for extracts, self-bank machines and offices involves higher costs for manual banking services and leads to the loss of financial autonomy among more vulnerable consumers. It is primarily, but certainly not only, about the elderly. These things also affect some people with disabilities and those who do not have the financial resources for a smartphone or PC and an internet subscription. In addition, unequal access to digital technologies and unequal digital skills explains why some social groups are more affected by the digital divide. I have discussed the problem of digitisation and exclusion of the most vulnerable with the sector. Practical solutions will be sought. Think of the revision of the gentlemen's agreement of 2004 and the introduction of a universal basic banking service. Other solutions and options may also be considered. The intention is to organise thematic meetings from the end of February or the beginning of March to discuss proposals and their concrete implementation. The aim of the universal basic banking service is to ensure that all consumers use their current account effectively and fully. Everyone must be able to manage an account without being discriminated against or restricted by certain factors, such as age or disability. We want to ensure that a mandatory minimum of functions and services is linked to a current account. In other words, consumers should not be obliged to carry out their transactions in any way. Finally, the basic banking service should also be offered at a reasonable price. I will have a meeting very soon with Test-Achats on that issue. We will carefully examine the proposal against increasing bank charges. The problem of rising bank charges will also be analysed in the near future by the price observatory. The issue will also be discussed with Febelfin. The extension of the basic banking service to people who are not involved in digitisation can indeed be an option. As mentioned above, this is one of the solutions that will be explored to bridge the digital divide.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic365x.u34	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive reply. I am pleased that there will be a revision of the gentlemen's agreement and that you are working thematically. The basic banking service for individuals seems to me to be a very important tool to bridge the digital divide and to ensure that everyone, including those who are not digital, can enjoy a number of features and services, at affordable prices for everyone. We look forward to further steps in this direction. This will undoubtedly be on our agenda more often.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic365x.u35	Minister, if I may, I will summarize my two questions in the light of recent developments. According to Graydon's analysis, with regard to the financial health of businesses, hairdressers, bars and restaurants, 25% of businesses in Brussels and 28% in Wallonia are at risk of bankruptcy and therefore need an urgent cash injection. Most of them were healthy before March 2020 - 19.5% of businesses in Brussels and 24% in Wallonia - but are now in great difficulty. These figures even rise to 32 per cent of companies in the event sector and 43 per cent in the horeca sector. In all, it is no less than 84,000 companies that are affected by this great financial difficulty. We can't let these companies down, or we risk cascading bankruptcies. The horeca sector announces mobilizations to demand additional aid and its standardization. It is not understandable that aid is different from one Region to another for people who are in the same difficulties. Our country needs more coordination. If people feel that they are not treated fairly from one Region to another, that they have no perspective and that the aid is insufficient to ensure the survival of their business, people's adherence to health rules is at risk. The moratorium on bankruptcies was not extended beyond January 31, 2021. The President of the Union of Middle Classes calls the end of this moratorium a "serious failure". For the UCM, as long as the restrictive measures last, the support of the public authorities must be prolonged. The moratorium is an essential element. The UCM believes that the forthcoming reform of the judicial reorganization procedure is positive. It becomes more accessible, at a more reasonable cost. But it is very difficult to set up, especially for companies that are still closed, as long as a reopening schedule is not established. The end of the moratorium on bankruptcies is, therefore, far too early. Do you have data to identify companies that were healthy before the outbreak of the pandemic and are now at risk of bankruptcy? If so, are these data shared with federated entities? Do you intend to take initiatives with your counterparts in the federated entities to increase and harmonize aid? How do you respond to the UCM President? Does the government intend to take into account the UCM's alarm call and reverse its decision not to extend the moratorium on bankruptcies? Do you not think that a distinction should be made between creditors with, on the one hand, independents and SMEs facing difficulties and, on the other hand, those with stronger kidneys such as the state or large companies? In general, what initiatives do you intend to take to help companies threatened with bankruptcy as a result of the health crisis?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic365x.u36	Minister, recently the VBO called the alarm to warn against at least 50 000 bankruptcies, which would cause 120,000 jobs to be lost. This confirms the position in my previous questions and discussions with the relevant ministers in the past year. They were always talking about the turnout from the crisis, which would be taken later. Reference was also made to the temporary measures. Last week we had hearings with the VBO in our committee and the presentation was not very positive. In recent months, few preparations have been made to prevent the large number of bankruptcies when temporary measures are phased out. In the meantime, the moratorium is even over, and although new legislation is under way, we are temporarily faced with a vacuum, with exposure of companies to bankruptcy. Minister, how do you feel about the umpteenth emergency call from the VBO? Do you think it's right? In the meantime, what have you done to prevent many thousands of bankruptcies now that the temporary measures are being phased out? What support measures, other than the current temporary measures, were designed to save our businesses?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic365x.u37	Minister, I refer to the written version of my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic365x.u38	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the economic situation in Belgium is particularly complicated, as it is in the countries around us, when it is no more difficult. Belgium is a small country with a particularly open economy which depends in particular on the economic situation of our neighbours. The federal government injects a lot of money into the economy to help employees and companies through the crisis. As you know, tens of billions of euros have so far been injected into our economy, to support both businesses and the self-employed and the purchasing power of workers. We continue to adapt our support to the needs of employers and employees in sectors in difficulty as a result of the decisions of the government or the Consultation Committee, such as travel, catering and events. As I have already had the opportunity to say, it is essential for us to be able to compensate as much as possible for the losses suffered by companies and self-employed persons in sectors directly or indirectly affected by the decisions taken in the context of the management of the health crisis. Last week, for example, we awarded an additional wage subsidy to the travel sector. Staff in this sector are obliged to continue to work on the management of vouchers, despite the fact that activity in the sector has virtually stalled. I repeat that it is essential for us to be able to ensure that the sectors concerned are able to recover after this crisis and to reopen and work again in the best possible conditions. You're also asking me about the moratorium on bankruptcies. I am not going to tell you much by telling you that the debates are taking place, particularly in this committee. I have followed the decision of my colleague in charge of justice, who is responsible for this matter. We have discussed this issue, as well as in the committee, where you have been able to deliver opinions, considerations and proposals on this issue. This was stressed by the UCM and by other organisations representing companies or independents, it is important that at the end of this moratorium on bankruptcies, the reform of the procedure for judicial reorganization (PRJ) be brought into play as soon as possible. It has been discussed again this morning in this committee and work will resume next week. This is an important response expected by the sectors. At the end of the moratorium on bankruptcy, we must propose something else, which takes into account both the evaluation of the procedure in judicial reorganization and the exceptionally difficult special circumstances that we are facing today. I would like to remind you of the federal government's commitment to ensure that ONSS does not cite bankrupt companies for their debts to it. It is also important that governments lead by example. With regard to the proposals on solvency and liquidity made by the ETF, the government has already put in place certain schemes and measures. These are, for example, guarantees provided by the State to banks to facilitate borrowing. We are in favour of public measures to ensure the liquidity of companies. It is known that this is necessary as long as the economic situation has not returned to normal and as long as it is not obvious for companies to find liquidity in the markets. This is clearly a point of attention for the government and the Minister of Economy that I am. We are also prepared to consider measures for the recapitalisation of companies in difficulty, but at the same time we want to avoid measures that are particularly beneficial to the richest. We are also preparing the conditions for reopening the closed sectors so that they can take place in the best possible circumstances. Finally, I am working with Mr Dermine on the recovery plan, which should promote the creation of quality jobs and a fair transition.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic365x.u39	Minister, it has been months since economic actors denounced chaotic communication, with decisions taken at the last minute. It must be noted, however, that once again, on a matter as important as the moratorium on bankruptcies, you are not changing your method. All of this, let us remember, while your decision is not unanimous. Indeed, the Union of Middle Classes denounces the end of the moratorium on bankruptcies as a serious mistake. Secondly, we do not understand why this moratorium ends as whole sectors continue to be closed. By doing so, it is an entire part of the economy that you risk condemning, with the dramatic social consequences that go with it. In this context, we regret that the majority did not take the opportunity to commit themselves to an extension of the moratorium during this morning's debate. This is extremely regrettable for the self-employed and SMEs in our country, especially since the vast majority of companies currently in great difficulty were healthy before the crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic365x.u40	Minister, I have been questioning you and your predecessors for a year about the numerous signs of imminent bankruptcies. In your answer, Mr Minister, I wonder if the Cabinets will read and take my questions seriously when they have to formulate an answer. You refer, among other things, to our neighbouring countries. Of course, they too are having a hard time, but the fact remains that we have to solve the problems in our country. You would point out that the government has already spent many billions of euros to support businesses and keep purchasing power. But, again, that's temporary measures. In particular, I would like to ask whether companies will soon be able to continue their activities when the whole vaccination strategy works and the economy can restart, once the temporary measures have been phased out. On that point, you remain very quiet. I think it is striking that you refer to the companies and sectors directly affected by covid and had to interrupt their activities, while the previous hearings have shown that other sectors, which should not interrupt their activities, are also in need and that bankruptcy is threatening. You miss the ball if you focus too much on specific sectors. Of course, I welcome the fact that the measures that the government will take should not benefit the richest companies. That makes sense. I'm rounding up. For the umpteenth time, you are referring to the recovery plan. A percentage of the resources from the plan should be committed to energy transition and digitalisation. But I insist, as with your colleague, Mr Dermine, that you should not forget the existing economic fabric, which is now in need. The companies concerned are also waiting and have no message of energy transition. They expect clear, clear solutions and policies from the current government.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic365x.u41	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. There have indeed been hearings since the submission of the questions, including with the VBO last week. This has indeed shown that mostly young and smaller companies with up to 10 employees are in financial difficulties. You refer to the many measures which the government has already taken and which are well-intentioned. But small and large companies and self-employed people have been in the stranglehold of this for almost a year now. I think we should definitely get our hands on the team for our economy. We can't just talk about perspective, premiums or recovery. That is all good, but it must not be limited to that. We must certainly let creativity go ahead and welcome it, especially for the smaller and younger companies. A lot of counselors and experts have been through the last year. For economic council, however, we must contact the traders, the companies and their representatives themselves. After all, there is a crushing competition coming from abroad. A healthy mind needs not only a healthy body, but also a healthy economy. As far as bankruptcy is concerned, we discussed this in detail this morning and just now in the Committee on Justice. Above all, we must ensure that the procedure of judicial reorganisation is not stretched indefinitely, otherwise healthy companies will ultimately suffer. That worries me.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic365x.u42	Mr. President, please accept my apologies. Minister, thank you for your answers. I was not in a position to ask my question simply because I was questioning the Minister of Justice on the same subject. Without much surprise and fortunately for you, your answers converge, but they only strengthen the position of my party, which is also that of the sector, namely that this moratorium should be extended at least as long as this sector remains at a standstill. This request was made unanimously by the representatives of the independents who were heard in the Committee on the Economy last week. They told us that it is really essential to reduce all aid to businesses, and therefore to the employees of these companies, gradually and not overnight. Now, for this moratorium on bankruptcies, it fell like a cutlet. It was terminated overnight until January 31, 2021. What's the point of hearing business if the government wants to do what it wants to do anyway? Like the Minister of Justice, you tell us that the impact of this moratorium on bankruptcies will be limited and controlled by the reform of the judicial procedure that is indeed welcome, by the fact that there is a recovery plan and by the fact that between the end of this moratorium and the adoption of this reform, a tacit moratorium would have been sealed with the ONSS and the tax authorities. But what about the other creditors who can continue to cite bankrupt companies? What do we propose to debtors who are legally obliged to declare bankruptcy when they are in default of payment? We're not offering them anything. The tacit moratorium does not bind them at all. Therefore, Minister, the solution that you are putting forward today, like what has been done by the Minister of Justice, is not one. I regret this because, in doing so, we are really putting all these companies and employees in great difficulty, but also, at the same time, our economy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic365x.u43	Minister, I am glad to ask these questions that have been pending since last week in committee, when this is an important subject, on which I really wanted to hear from you, which is why I came to meet you physically, but it will be for another time. We expect, of course, federal, regional and banking efforts. During an exchange I had this morning with your colleague, Mr. Van Peteghem, I was telling him how much we hoped the insurance industry would make an effort. As Minister of Economy, you are very interested in this subject. Insurance premiums represent a heavy budget item for our self-employed. And, as under the previous legislature we had planned an agreement, which will probably be amended in the near future, we would have hoped that you would naturally be able to reach an agreement with the insurance companies. There is a categorical refusal on their part to compensate the operating losses. You indicated that an agreement had been reached on the deferral of premiums, signed on 16 December. That's totally inadequate. We have even heard that the premiums will increase. I would like to draw attention to practices in other countries. It is still useful to see that in France, for example, compensation decisions have been taken up to EUR 100 million for operating losses. The insurance sector has decided, certainly under pressure from the French government, to contribute EUR 400 million to the Public Support Front for SMEs. In total, measures related to the insurance sector in a country such as France still amount to EUR 4 billion. One neighbouring country and others have decided to freeze insurance premiums. It's important. In Italy, measures have been taken as well as in the Netherlands. In Bavaria, insurance companies agreed to provide voluntary compensation for 10 to 15% of operating losses. In short, in some countries, a framework agreement has been reached with the insurance sector. So I wanted to know what was going on with your negotiations with Assuralia to get a new protocol probably? Does Belgium intend to align itself with existing practices in neighbouring countries in this area in order to have more concrete and stronger measures than strictly carry-overs? Let me turn to my second question, Mr President, which concerns vehicle insurance. As we know, car insurance premiums are an important budget item for our SMEs and self-employed. Because of closures and containment, contractors have rarely used their vehicles. For Belgium, Traffic Index tells us about 20% less motorway traffic in 2020. Test-Achats confirms that there has been a 60% decrease in car accidents involving personal injury. The same body therefore very legitimately claims that the insurances grant a refund, given this decrease in traffic and, above all, road accidents. However, Belfius and AXA, for example, tell us that this is not on the agenda. For its part, AG Insurance tells us of a lack of hindrance. Federal Insurance, for its part, believes that the statistics do not yet make it possible to draw conclusions. In short, the insurance sector is hiding in order to escape the effort required. Your colleague Van Peteghem called for more solidarity between the banks. Naturally, we would like you to be able to imitate it by asking the insurance sector to show more solidarity, also for the price of premiums per vehicle. We are even told that companies have already taken steps to increase these premiums by more than 2%. In this case, we are not even in the freeze! We have 68% accident reductions, but insurers charge the boat and tell consumers – both private and self-employed – that this is going to cost even more. Mr President, I am going into detail, but it is still a matter of reminding the independents of their lack of cash flow, which is staggering. We discussed this in the previous question. We must remember what insurance costs for a small trader: it is EUR 2 000 per year for industrial accident insurance, civil liability, etc. Most insurers indicate that the premium depends on the payroll and that a possible refund will be possible next year. There's no cash left, but we're waiting for next year... However, we're asking companies that are closed to pay the full premium right away! I'm waiting for you on this particular insurance; I'm waiting for you to convince me. It is not the only accident and liability insurance that operates on this system. This is also the case with the operating RC. Here too, you are asked to pay when shops and restaurants are closed. I can't believe there wasn't any initiative. You'll tell me that initiatives are going to be taken. I'll tell you that's a good thing. This is an issue, in relation to group insurance, which represents a significant cost. Self-employed people continue to pay group insurance for people who no longer work with them and who are temporarily unemployed. I am not saying that we must suspend, but today the self-employed and SMEs take over the whole group insurance of employees who are temporarily unemployed. It can be suspended. Some do not do so because they want to continue to ensure that employees can benefit from this group insurance, but no matter: they spit in the pool. On several dossiers, - I tell you on behalf of the MR - we are really waiting for results. It's not an easy file or sector. But it would still be incredible if this sector were not more involved in the collective effort.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic365x.u44	Member, thank you for your questions. I am glad to be able to answer you even by screen. I try to apply telework as much as possible, depending on the decisions taken by the Consultation Committee. As you know, it has been imposed on a large part of the workers' population. In addition, I have asked the inspection services to verify compliance with this obligation and I am trying to apply to myself and my teams the obligations we impose on others.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic365x.u45	Are you afraid of an inspection?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic365x.u46	It would intervene independently and autonomously. She would also be in her role. I'm not afraid of an inspection, but I'm trying to set an example. I am delighted to be able to answer you today because it is a subject that interests me and in which I have invested myself. For the little story, know that the world of the self-employed is well known to me since I am a self-employed son! I was independent myself. And the one who shares my absences is also independent. It is therefore a sector, a milieu and realities that I know particularly well. I have heard your questions and your public statements, in which you urged me to conclude an agreement with the insurance sector similar to that concluded by my colleague Van Peteghem with the banking sector. So be aware that you have been heard, Mr. Ducrame, and even anticipated, since this agreement has been reached with Assuralia in a format similar to that concluded with the banking sector. Even before the moratorium, decisions were taken for this sector, but on a case-by-case basis. These decisions did not concern all the insurances to which the self-employed and traders must subscribe in the course of their activities, they concerned only fire insurance and the remaining balance insurance. At the time, the other insurances were to be analysed on a case-by-case basis by the insurance company or broker. Today, thanks to the agreement reached, businesses and self-employed persons can obtain a deferral of payment of all their non-life insurance premiums until 30 June this year. The total amount of premiums carried forward would be around EUR 500 million. On the other hand - and I think this is an important aspect - I have secured the commitment of the insurance sector, through Assuralia, to invest in the process of reviving the Belgian economy, and in particular in the framework of the Transition Fund, the creation of which was decided by the government last Friday. This fund will be set up within and with the assistance of the Federal Society for Participation and Investment (SFPI). There is a real will to mobilize capital and resources, particularly from institutional actors such as the insurance sector. We already have the agreement of the insurance sector to participate substantially in the recovery process. Within this framework, it is planned to enter the capital of various companies through this Transition Fund and the insurance sector. It is really the will to participate in this recovery process. However, I would like to go into more detail on the various measures arising from the agreement reached with the insurance sector. It is envisaged that, in the case of undertakings which are at a standstill as a result of government decisions or the Conciliation Committee, a series of insurances will have to adapt automatically to the interruption of the activity. These include, for example, industrial accident insurance and civil liability insurance. You mentioned them earlier: the amount of premiums will have to adjust by reflecting the decrease in the paid salary of the payroll and/or turnover. As far as group insurance is concerned, the protocols provide that benefits relating to invalidity and hospitalization are maintained during periods of temporary unemployment and that the insurance sector has also provided for a period of time for employers to pay the various premiums and to take account of periods of inactivity or closure of the undertaking. Indeed, the protocol covers a whole series of insurances. Workers' accident and civil liability insurance, group insurance and others, such as fire and balance insurance, are also included in this protocol. In order to be clear and to cite a whole series of insurance policies, we are talking about the possibility of requesting the postponement of all non-life insurance: legal protection, fire, assistance, industrial accident, occupational health insurance, operating insurance, guaranteed income, health care and hospitalisation and insurance policies concerning motor vehicles. We are talking about a measure with a relatively broad scope covering all organisations, businesses and all the self-employed, heavily impacted by the crisis. With regard to the issue of insurance premiums for vehicles and the increase reported in the head of certain insurance companies, I asked for more precise figures from the sector, including figures that would attest to the accident rate in the motor vehicle sector and to the impact of the sums disbursed by the insurance sector. I do not yet have these precise figures, but I will not fail to return to you as soon as I have obtained them. This is an important element and if increases are to occur, they must be justified, justified and explained by the sector. We cannot be content with mere statements of larger disbursements from the insurance sector; all this must be demonstrated, justified and explained. More generally, you know that as part of my policy statement and my policy guidance note, I have placed particular emphasis on the need for structural measures to improve the price-quality ratio of insurance. In agreement with the government and in collaboration with my colleague Eva De Bleeker, we want to improve consumer information, whether individual or entrepreneur, in order to better compete in the insurance sector. It is known that there is still a whole series of data that do not allow for an effective comparison of the costs and conditions of the different insurance policies. Together with my colleague, I wanted to make sure that we could play this competition better and have more transparent information. We will work with FSMA to make it easier for consumers to compare insurance products by developing online comparison modules for major insurance products, as is done in other sectors. This is somewhat outside the scope of your question and the particular attention given to the insurance sector and to their support for the sectors affected by the crisis, but it is important to be able to open up the debate today and to be able to work on this issue, which concerns businesses, the self-employed and the general population.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic365x.u47	The subject is important, but I would like to ask that we also take account of the regulatory speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic365x.u48	Mr President, we must take into account the fact that we have been waiting for this answer for a long time. In addition, there were three questions attached. It was therefore necessary to give the minister time to respond. This, of course, is a blunder because I would not allow myself to make such a serious statement, Mr President. Minister, I am a very direct person. You will probably have already had the opportunity to notice that. When it's good, I say it. When it is not right – it is obviously a subjective assessment – I also say so. I want you to know that, in view of part of your answer, I appreciate what I feel like a willingness to commit to this issue. I naturally note the information on the participation and mobilisation of the insurance sector in the context of the recovery. This is an essential element that we must point out. For the rest, as you may know, I put a number of flats. As I said, when I have a negative point to raise, I make it known. You talked about that lady who shared your absences. I hope that the independents do not share your absence on a number of points. Indeed, I do not think the postponements are sufficient. I know you've already worked, maybe even hard, to get those postponements. But today, the fundamental problem we are facing is that independents and SMEs are being asked to pay insurance premiums that are not due because their activities have ceased. We are therefore talking about postponements and, worse still, we are asking these independents and SMEs to pay, on the basis of 2019, the down payment which, in fact, represents the entire premium for 2020. That is what is happening on the ground today, and that is not the case! Therefore, as a social liberal, I expect a little more interventionism on this issue from you, dear socialist friends. Be more interventionist, ladies and gentlemen, on this issue! Push insurance to think and apply a number of exemptions on insurance and premiums which, basically, do not have to be cashed! I mean what you're saying with respect to the fact that if there are bonus increases, that has to be explained. Minister, the insurance sector today does not suffer greatly from other sectors. There are a few percent declines, while other sectors are down by 30 to 40 percent, such as the horeca sector. He must participate in the effort, in relation to the one with whom he has a contract. It is good that it is mobilised in the context of the recovery, but it must first and foremost, with the help of the public authorities, with your help, with the help of the socialist you are, be guaranteed a framework agreement. I wish to continue to stand by you on this difficult issue. But I'm really asking you for more results.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic365x.u49	Minister, we are going to completely change the subject. I first addressed my question to Minister Vandenbroucke, who responded in part. For the rest, he sent me back to you. This is the Roche-Novartis scandal that shook our Parliament last year. In this case, an advantage had been granted to the medicine Lucentis to the detriment of Avastin – only the first being reimbursed. As a result of a suspicion against the two companies, Test-Achats filed a complaint in 2014 with the Belgian Competition Authority. We had already questioned Mrs Muylle, who had preceded you to this ministerial office, about the trial that seems to be unsuccessful. In any case, the current procedure is stagnating in our country. Meanwhile, the companies in question were sentenced by the French courts to EUR 444 million in fines, after the Italian courts had sentenced them to more than EUR 180 million. In Belgium, it is estimated that these mafia practices would have cost 500 million euros, even if we could never know whether or not there had been illegal practices. Minister, can you give us a statement of the location of this investigation? What is the state of play? How can we explain its length? Indeed, we have been waiting for the results for six years, while a sentence has been handed down in France. Would pressure be exerted? Has the Auditor General assigned sufficient staff to handle the case? According to the hearings we had organized, there seemed to be a problem on this side. Finally, has the Belgian Competition Authority been able to access the contract between our State and Novartis in the Lucentis case?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic365x.u50	Mrs Merckx, as you know, the Belgian Competition Authority is responsible for prosecuting infringements of competition law, in particular cartels or abuses of a dominant position, which are prohibited by the Code of Economic Law in Articles IV.1 and IV.2. The pharmaceutical sector is a particular sector, as you know, characterized by high regulation, the existence of intellectual property rights in companies and pharmacovigilance obligations. This is a sector in which the demonstration of competition law infringements is particularly complex. Given the strict requirements of professional secrecy and the obligation of confidentiality to which the Belgian Competition Authority is subject, I do not have precise information on the status of this case. However, the Auditorate has indicated to me that it intends to complete its investigation in the coming weeks and, if necessary, communicate its grievances to the undertakings concerned. As regards, more generally, the duration of investigations into infringements or potential infringements of competition law, I will tell you that it is often several years. Both at national and European Commission level, the duration of an investigation depends on a number of factors, including the collection and quality of evidence, the complexity of certain infringements, the cooperation of the companies prosecuted or whether or not there is a link to an investigation conducted by other authorities. Nothing in my knowledge indicates that the duration of the investigation, as far as the particular case is concerned, would be due to pressure from the pharmaceutical industry or the cooperation of the companies involved. The number of persons assigned to the investigation of this case depends on the large number of cases under investigation and on human resources, which are limited at the level of the Authority. Finally, as far as your last question is concerned, the Belgian Competition Authority tells me that, despite several applications, I do not have access to the agreements signed between INAMI and pharmaceutical companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic365x.u51	Minister, thank you for your answer. I do not know the average time frame for investigations, but six years still seems to me to be quite long; especially since in France and Italy, the convictions of Roche and Novartis have already taken place. This is exactly the same case. I can only hope that we will soon reach the conclusion of this investigation, because we know quite well what happened between the two firms. I also hope that we can put an end to the "theft" of our social security, which is still under way today. If this investigation were successful, it could move the case forward on the INAMI side where Lucentis is still reimbursed today and not the Avastin drug for macular degeneration. I find it surprising that, in the context of an investigation, the Belgian Competition Authority did not have access to the contract. I think that in order to estimate the possible fine or the height of the damage suffered by Belgium, the Authority really needs to know the terms of the contract between the State and Novartis. It seems to me that this is also a problem and that the Authority should have access to this contract. I'll follow this file.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic365x.u52	Minister, your policy paper states that an in-depth analysis will be carried out of the problems faced by consumers in the purchase of real estate or in the works carried out on it. So you say that consumers often do not enjoy any protection in this sector, although there are sometimes large amounts of money involved. It will therefore be examined whether it is appropriate to modernise the Breyne Act and extend its scope in order to protect consumers from the risk of insolvency of contractors. How will you deal with this quoted passage? Have any initiatives been taken by you at the moment? When will you come to Parliament with initiatives, proposals or any drafts? Perhaps it would be better to look at where the real needs are or to carry out more frequent checks before a draft is drawn up, rather than immediately taking legislative initiatives.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic365x.u53	Mrs Verhelst, I initially asked my administration to carry out a thorough analysis of the main problems in the construction sector. On the basis of the results and recommendations, I will take the necessary initiatives. These may include legislative changes or more targeted checks by the Economic Inspectorate on compliance with the Breyne Act, a awareness campaign to inform consumers about their rights or a combination of such measures. It is too early at this stage to anticipate the concrete content of the measures. First, the results of the analysis must be known. It is a very important design. I do not think it is appropriate to set a deadline at this stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic365x.u54	Who will carry out this thorough analysis? Maybe I can make a move, too. I would like to follow the situation well or to be able to understand it. So I would very much like you to come back with feedback on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic365x.u55	Minister, the problem has just been outlined by Mrs Dierick.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic365x.u56	Mrs Depraetere, the universal banking service aims to ensure that all consumers use their payment accounts effectively and fully. Consumers should be able to manage an account without being restricted or discriminated against on the basis, for example, of age or restriction. The idea behind the universal banking service is that payment accounts are linked to a mandatory minimum number of functions and services. Consumers should not be obliged to carry out their transaction in a certain way. In addition, the universal banking service should be offered at reasonable remuneration. Its practical implementation needs to be looked at further. We are also looking for solutions to better guide people who are experiencing difficulties as a result of the digitisation process. It is important to work on different solutions. That is the purpose of the consultation with Febelfin. The successive increases in bank charges are problematic. Indeed, banks significantly increase the cost of services they provide in their branches. The problem of increasing bank charges is directly linked to the digital divide and the downgrading of banking services. I can assure you that I am following this issue with the greatest attention and that I intend to take measures to protect the most vulnerable. This will even be one of my priorities for 2021.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic365x.u57	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I hear there's still some discussion to be had with Febelfin. I would like to draw your attention to the OKRA proposal, which I think is a really good proposal. A number of people are not on board and are at risk of falling prey to the digital divide. We can establish that, but it would be better if we brought those people with us. OKRA has put forward a proposal to introduce an individual guidance for those people, in cooperation with the banks, to ensure that a digital help desk is created so that seniors can better adapt to the spirit of time. This is a good proposal, which could be discussed with Febelfin. I hear that you will take action in this regard and that you will make this issue a priority. A number of proposals along these lines have also been tabled in Parliament by the PS and the sp.a Group. You are undoubtedly aware of this. We will undoubtedly be able to have this debate again later this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic365x.u58	Mr President, Mrs Houtmeyers, thank you for your questions. The measures to prevent the spread of the corona virus led to the closure of many traders in autumn 2020. As a result, many traders, especially those in the textile sector, have been left with their stocks. They face serious difficulties in paying their suppliers and other costs. To support them, the winter soldiers were extended by two weeks, as you know. I am not aware of the Fashion Union's demand and can therefore only say that in my opinion a generalised closure will never benefit the economy. From an economic point of view, this must always be a last resort. The appropriateness of a general closure shall be assessed on the basis of the health situation. As you know, that assessment is being carried out by the Consultative Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic365x.u59	Thank you, Minister. I totally agree with you. I'm glad to hear you have the same idea. This must be absolutely the last resort. Unfortunately, sometimes these signals appear, such as those of the Fashion Union. Yesterday or the day before yesterday, I heard it again. That's too bad, because that causes a lot of uncertainty. We really have to choose to keep the shops open. The aim must be to keep our economy running in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic365x.u60	Mr President, in order not to prolong the debate, I refer to my question as tabled and I look forward to the minister's answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic365x.u61	Mr President, Mr Group Leader, thank you for your question. Several measures already exist to combat bank exclusion. We have already had an opportunity to discuss this in this committee this afternoon. I am thinking, for example, of the basic banking service, already in force for private individuals since 2003, as you know, and soon for businesses from 1 May 2021. Under certain conditions, everyone is entitled to a view account to carry out the most common transactions. For businesses, this service will have to be provided regardless of the financial situation or the sector of activity. For individuals, there can be no discrimination on the basis of nationality, age, place of residence or wealth, to name but a few examples. Of course, the legislation on the basic banking service applies without prejudice to the anti-money laundering law. The establishment of a basic banking service for individuals and soon for businesses contributes in particular to the fight against the development of these uncontrolled alternatives, allowing everyone to have a bank account. We have, in fact, a better overview of an individual's or a company's finances when it passes through a known financial institution rather than through an alternative circuit that is not transparent or even totally opaque. It is then a tool that guarantees the use of scriptural currency rather than cash and cash transactions, thus contributing to the fight against money laundering and the financing of criminal activities. The idea of the law of 8 November 2020 which establishes the basic banking service for businesses is to guarantee them access to a payment account enabling them to carry out the banking operations necessary for professional activity and thus to participate in economic life. It is true that some companies find it difficult to obtain a bank account. The basic banking service is intended to provide a solution to this problem. These new provisions, as I mentioned a few moments ago, do not affect the anti-money laundering law, which is repeated as an explicit ground for refusal and termination of the basic banking service. That, honourable Member, is some of the answers I could give to your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic365x.u62	Minister, that's perfect. We have exactly the same vision. I'm happy with your answer. It is clear that the banking sector must also play an economic and social role. It is important that we keep an eye on it, even though, of course, the sector must absolutely avoid everything that is fraud, escape, etc. We are also monitoring this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic365x.u63	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mrs Dierick's 55013372C and 55013408C are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic365x.u64	Mrs Van Bossuyt, the government is indeed addressing this sensitive issue. It is possible that the vouchers may have to be refunded by the organisers in the near future. After all, a year after they have been issued, customers can request reimbursement of vouchers. The tour operator will have six months for the refund. Some organisers may find it difficult to repay many travellers in view of the current situation. After all, there is much less activity and therefore the financial resources are also limited. If the tour operators were to go bankrupt, passengers could be reimbursed by the insurers, but the government wants, of course, to avoid such bankruptcies in the first place. On 18 December the Council of Ministers approved in principle the elaboration of a solution. One possible solution is that tour operators can borrow funds for the reimbursement of vouchers. A voucher fund financed by the State could provide loans to the travel organizations. We are considering this mechanism and consultations are taking place with the sector. In any case, the financial impact on the State will have to be very limited. The file is being worked hard with various cabinets. At the moment, no decision has been taken, so I cannot give you a date yet for the introduction of such a complex arrangement, nor information on the precise conditions. As soon as possible, I will provide you with the necessary information, together with my colleagues, Secretary of State De Bleeker and Minister Van Peteghem.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic365x.u65	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I'm a little surprised. Last week I asked you a question about this. You spoke at that time about other measures, but not about the coronavoucherbank, when I specifically asked for them. And then this weekend I heard your colleague, Secretary of State De Bleeker, say that the government is considering a coronavoucher bank. She even talked about modalities, such as a five-year loan. I can now hear you say that the government had already decided to do so on 18 December 2020, when you said something else to me last week. To be honest, I'm a little surprised. You say that it is being worked hard, but it should have been there yesterday. We have already put forward such a proposal at the end of last year, precisely because it is very important for the travel sector. You had discussed it with the travel sector, but you have undoubtedly heard enough calls from the sector in which they have explicitly expressed their support for that coronavoucher bank. It is important that it quickly becomes very concrete, to give the sector but also the passengers some perspective and some breathing space.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic365x.u66	Minister, the issue of the conversion of the Caterpillar site continues to be topical at regular intervals, but without any agreement or certainty being reached. On January 18, we could read Minister Willy Borsus' statement in the press: "Thunder Power on the Caterpillar site, I don't believe it anymore". Minister, where are we in practice with the electric car manufacturer Thunder Power? Currently, discussions seem to be in favour of creating an amusement park with the Merlin Entertainments group. Can you tell us more? Do you confirm the number of job creations advanced by the Walloon government, namely 800 direct and 700 indirect jobs? If so, what types of jobs will be created? Have you set strict requirements to ensure the creation of quality jobs? If so, which ones? How will former workers in Caterpillar who are looking for a job benefit from this new project?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic365x.u67	Dear colleague, your question surprises me somewhat, even though I understand the purpose and the attention given to the site in question and its workers. The conversion of the Caterpillar site is the responsibility of the Wallonia government and this matter is in its hands. I will not do the retroacts of the file but a specific cell had been set up at the initiative of the Walloon government in collaboration with the city of Charleroi and other actors (Catch cell) to give a future to this site and its workers. I can only suggest that you ask your colleagues in Parliament in Wallonia to question my regional counterpart Minister Willy Borsus. Having said that, I wish the conversion operation, in particular the workers of Caterpillar, every success in the professional challenge ahead of them. I hope that the site can quickly be reassigned in order to offer as many jobs as possible to Caterpillar workers and those looking for a job.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic365x.u68	Minister, I had already asked the question at the municipal level. At the regional level, the question had been asked, but I also wanted to ask the question at the federal level. What was important to me was whether you would be vigilant about the quality of the jobs that would be created. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic365x.u69	We can close our question-and-answer session. Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister.
