ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic638x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, as guest chairman of this hybrid assembly, I welcome you to this meeting of the interparliamentary climate dialogue. I welcome all parliamentarians from all regions. Ich begrüsse sehr herzlich Karl-Heinz Lambertz, Parlamentspräsident der Deutschsprachigen Gemeinschaft, für die Sitzung des interparlamentarischen Klimadialogs. It was agreed that the interparliamentary climate dialogue should be chaired until the end of this year by a representative of the Flemish Parliament, in particular Mr Philippe Muyters. Since Mr Muyters is apologized, he is replaced ad interim by Mr Andries Gryffroy, to whom I give the floor and the chair of this sitting.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic638x.u2	Thank you, colleague Leysen. Ladies and gentlemen, I found it useful to reflect after the COP26 in Glasgow, hence this sitting. Mr Muyters cannot preside, because an operation he had to undergo has put him out of business for a while. We should first listen to Mr Wittoeck's explanatory statement, which will reflect the results of the final decisions at COP26. I shall then give the floor to Parliament's delegation leaders for their findings and comments. The other members were then given the floor according to the D'Hondt system. Mr Wittoeck will then have the floor again.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic638x.u3	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by thanking you for your invitation. I will try to explain what was decided in Glasgow, more than a month ago, during the 26th COP of the UN Climate Treaty. Just to remind you, the COP in Glasgow is the fifth since the adoption of the Paris Climate Agreement, which has since become the framework for international climate policy. My first slide reminds me of how much, or indeed how little, progress has been made in all these past COPs since the Paris Agreement, with a quote from UN Secretary-General Guterres following the outcome of the previous COP, COP25 in Madrid, under the then Chilean Presidency. The latest COP, the COP26 in Glasgow, was one of the largest ever, with more than 40,000 physical participants, which in corona times can certainly be called a very large COP, and with, as always, a very large number of observers from the wider NGO community and the international community. Alok Sharma, the Chairman of COP26, had already announced four objectives in the middle of this year. Firstly, to ensure that we keep the 1.5 degree target of the Paris Agreement within reach. That is why we need to make sure that we can go to net zero emissions worldwide by the middle of the century. As always, adaptation policy was also an important priority for this COP, which is the adaptation of communities and ecosystems to the already inevitable consequences of climate change. Financing climate action, especially in developing countries, was the third priority highlighted by the UK Presidency. Subsequently, the further completion was on the agenda of the implementing rules for the Paris Rulebook Convention, where a number of important issues were still open. There was a focus on the negotiations themselves. Despite Corona and the fact that we have not been able to physically meet, there have been many online meetings, and there has been considerable progress in the negotiations themselves and around the negotiating texts. It was also noted that the British Presidency, in its preparation for the whole of last year, was very committed to a number of campaigns, often sectoral actions and actions in the field. A number of campaigns were set up around the themes you just saw appear. I will give you an overview of some of the results of these campaigns, but I will not go over them all. The UK Presidency conducted campaigns on both parties and states as well as a number of private players, for example in the sphere of international funding. The main political statements that were the result of that year campaigning on the themes were not easy for some, but for others. One of them could not endorse Belgium. The main statements adopted at the World Leaders Summit, i.e. the first two days of the COP, in the presence of many Heads of State or Government, include the cessation of deforestation by a total of 137 countries with more than 90% of the global forest area on their territory by 2030. An important priority for the UK Presidency on the first main objective of COP was the phasing out of the use of coal. A campaign not so much conducted by the British Presidency itself, but supported by it, was an initiative of the US and the European Union, with which as many countries as possible wanted to adopt the target of reducing methane emissions by 30% between 2020 and 2030. Finally, there was the most obvious and most important statement on emission reductions. As a result of this declaration, 38 countries and also a number of private players, including 30% of global car manufacturers, have committed themselves to stopping the sale of new passenger cars and vans with internal combustion engines by 2040, or earlier. In the most important markets, this is happening even earlier, by 2035. I would also like to briefly explain two elements, the so-called Glasgow Breakthroughs and a political statement that played more in the negotiations than in the field, the Leaders' Statement of the High Ambition Coalition. In total, 40 countries have endorsed the Glasgow Breakthroughs, including Belgium. They will work in a number of sectors, namely electricity production, passenger and vans, steel, hydrogen and agriculture. These Glasgow Breakthroughs do what many of the other statements do not do, something that was often their weakness in the past, namely define a process for the further follow-up of the execution of the statements. The latest review of the Climate Action Tracker is hopefully known to you. The CAT is an international institute that has been analysing the progress made in achieving the mitigation objectives of the Paris Agreement for years. The gap between the NDCs, also called Pledges and Targets, and a one-and-a-half degree trajectory within Horizon 2030 was analysed by the CAT in September 2020. When we calculate the impact of the new Nationally Determined Contributions (NDC) submitted to the United Nations since then, the gap is already narrowing. When we also count the central initiatives, the gap becomes significantly smaller, although there is still a gap. As I have already said, there was one statement in the statements that I showed you that dealt with the negotiations rather than with action on the ground, in particular the Leaders' statement of the High Ambition Coalition. The main elements in terms of mitigation are the phasing out of fossil fuels, methane emission adaptation, a large part of funding and loss and damage. I won't go over them all. The High Ambition Coalition Leaders' Statement was approved at the World Leaders Summit and was intended as an impetus for the negotiations. It has been endorsed, inter alia, by the European Commission, by President Biden of the United States and by most Western European countries separately. A notorious exception is Sweden, which considered that the statement was not ambitious enough, particularly as regards the wording of the coal or unabated coal clause. That provision was not ambitious enough for Sweden. Belgium did not sign either, because the three Regions and the federal government did not agree to do so in our country. In addition to the four objectives and their main results, however, there was a fifth element that I would like to touch here first, in particular the scientific basis for the policy, which has been reaffirmed by COP for the first time for a long time. This was not possible during the previous COPs. You may recall that in Katowice in 2018 it was not even possible to welcome the IPCC's recently published report on the one and a half degree target. That error in the system, if I may call it that way, has now been duly corrected by COP26. What was the message? The importance of science, the welcoming of the latest scientific reports, an invitation to the IPCC to present the second and third parts of its sixth assessment report also at the next COP, an echo of the messages in the IPCC reports and other messages of utmost concern, and the message that in this decade - the critical decade, those words come back in different places in COP's decisions - increased ambition and action must come. The objective of net zero emissions by the middle of the century, to keep 1.5°C within reach, has become a reality. You can see an extract from one of the texts of the Glasgow Climate Pact, the title given to COP's political decisions, to go to net zero emissions by the middle of the century and to call on countries to propose ambitious targets for 2030, at the end of this critical decade. The context in which this happens is the ambition mechanism of the Paris Agreement, with a global stocktake every five years, followed by the submission of new Nationally Determined Contributions. This ambition cycle has already been given its first turn in 2018, with the aim that the parties to the agreement would submit new or updated NDCs by 2020. Between 2018 and 2020, COPs were expected to send a signal from the international community to individual parties that this was expected of them. That proved impossible during the last two COPs, in Katowice and Madrid. That actually made Glasgow a kind of beacon of ambition, a kind of endpoint, a kind of final meet in the race towards more ambitious NDCs by 2020. The European Union has really taken the lead, especially since the entry of the Von der Leyen Commission, and has increased its NDC, which until then was 40% emission reduction, to an emission reduction of 55% in the context of a climate-neutral Europe by 2050. The United States has also laid down a new NDC, with the aim of halving emissions by the end of this decade, i.e. by 2030, and achieving net zero emissions by 2050. China, another major player and the biggest emitter, had already announced its intention to submit a new NDC in 2020, with the objective of allowing its emissions to peak before 2030 and to reduce its emissions towards carbon neutrality by 2060 as a deadline from 2030 at the latest. China has translated that political announcement by President Xi Jinping from just over a year ago just before COP into a new NDC formally presenting those objectives, in addition to a number of objectives that relate to certain sectors. This NDC was very disappointed because, according to analysts, it does not do much more than the policy already decided in China and does not contribute sufficiently to the common goal of limiting global warming to 1.5 degrees. China has also set out a long-term strategy with the same objective. If we look in general at the ambitions that the parties have included in the Paris Agreement, we see in an analysis of Climate Action Tracker of April 2021 that nearly three quarters of the emissions were covered by net zero target announcements. By November, 90% of the objectives were in themselves positive. In addition to the European Union, China and the United States, India wants to become net zero by 2070, just like some smaller countries. This in itself is very encouraging, apart from the fact that the quality of the strategies leading to these objectives and the policy security that they will be achieved are quite poor, with a number of exceptions, including the strategy of the European Union, the United Kingdom, Chile and Costa Rica. Much remains to be done in terms of the quality of these strategies. Where does that bring us in terms of the expected rise in temperature? With the current policy with an average of 2.7 degrees Celsius above the pre-industrial level, when all NDCs are executed, it gets a little smaller, but we are still pretty much above the absolute ceiling of 2 degrees Celsius. As already explained, although indirectly, when I was talking about the Chinese long-term strategy, we had not only to submit a revised NDC by 2020 but also a long-term strategy aimed at significantly reducing by the middle of the century. Assuming that the long-term objectives are also translated into policy, in the most optimistic scenario, the temperature level will be below 2 degrees Celsius, but whether that is well below 2 degrees Celsius as the Paris Agreement requires is the question. In any case, it is still quite much higher than the 1.5 degree Celsius target, which has become more and more political in recent years, regardless of how the Paris Agreement's Article 2 sets the temperature targets. The analyses I showed you are the analysis of the Climate Action Tracker. In the formal process, the Secretariat of the Convention was asked to carry out such an analysis in order to synthesise the impact of all NDCs submitted for COP. Although proposed in another way, you can see that even in an optimistic scenario where the conditional elements of the NDCs, like many developing countries who have submitted - a condition for getting sufficient technical and financial support - are still far removed from projects that keep us below 2 degrees Celsius or 1.5 degrees Celsius. When reading Article 2 of the Paris Agreement, 1.5 degrees Celsius is a target. We must strive for this, but certainly since the COP formalized it in international political terms, it has become the real political goal. One of the results of the COP in the Glasgow Climate Pact is that the international community is unanimous and determined to make efforts to achieve that 1.5 degree Celsius. In order to achieve this one and a half degree target, as well as zero emissions by the middle of the century, it is necessary to reduce emissions by 45% by 2030. The IPCC had already said that in 2018. A call was also made to reduce greenhouse gases other than CO2 in a very far-reaching way. It's mostly about methane. For this, too, the more political part around mitigation of the Climate Pact highlights the need for accelerated action in this critical decade. That Synthesis Report of the Secretariat has given rise to great concern and an urgent need for parties to increase and accelerate their efforts. The report also sets out a concrete objective: to the 2020 deadline for enhanced NDCs and 2025 for the next set of NDCs, a new deadline will now be added from the end of 2020. The parties are invited to review and strengthen their NDCs by the end of next year. The parties are also being called on again, because few had done so so so far, to submit long-term strategies. New is that the long-term strategies should now focus very specifically on achieving net zero emissions by the middle of the century. It adds that this must be done in the context of a fair transition and calls for regular updating of these strategies. The link between the NDCs and the long-term strategies is made. That may seem obvious, but it's not. That link was not explicitly laid out in Paris, but it is now. The Secretariat's synthesis report will now be published annually. Each year, the Secretariat will present a report on the gap between the efforts and the results of the NDCs on the table and the objectives of the Paris Agreement. The Secretariat will also, and this is also new, do the same with the long-term strategies, as you can see in those Climate Action Tracker graphs, taking into account the impact of the long-term strategies. These synthesis reports on the NDCs will also be discussed at ministerial round tables every year. So the political focus will be very much on these Gap Reports every year, if I may call them that. That is also an important point. They are also the subject of a one-time ministerial event, or leader's event, between Heads of State or Government in 2023, led by António Guterres, the Secretary-General. This is important because 2023 is the year for the next five-year global stocktake. There will be a work programme, of which we do not yet know exactly what it will look like to be decided at the next COP, in order to scale up integration ambition and implementation of the objectives in the context of the NDCs in this decade. The idea is to move from a five-year cycle of ambition to a cycle that plays much shorter on the ball and where the parties can submit a new NDC each year, followed by a collective evaluation based on a synthesis report and a political reading of it at each of the COPs. There's no end date on it, except it's about this decade. So we go from a five-yearly to an annual cycle of ambition. That was necessary, because if we have to wait until 2023-2025 for the next cycle of ambition, it will relate to ambitions by 2030 and in these terms we have missed the opportunity to strengthen the actions and ambitions by 2030, as science requires us to do. In addition to that set of objectives and processes to achieve those objectives, there have also been a number of specific objectives around, among others, coal, road transport, methane and deforestation. As I said, many statements have already been made, but political signals have also come from the COP itself: the importance of protecting natural ecosystems and forests and reducing or phasing out coal-based electricity production. The original text said "phase out of unabated coal power," but that was too much for China and India, so the compromise was reached during the final minutes of the COP to make phase down of it. The political signal remains broadly the same. Phase out or phase out is used when it comes to inefficient subsidies for fossil fuels. These are great innovations in the context of a COP. Never before have signals been given to specific sectors. Never before has the signal been given so explicitly or directly that fossil fuels need to be phased out. So, for the first time during a COP, that is a powerful signal in terms of the energy transition. The reduction of methane emissions was not mentioned in such explicit and quantified terms as was the case with the methane pledge, but the signal came that these emissions need to be reduced rapidly, just because it has a lot of impact very quickly. The second main objective is adaptation. In this context, the two main challenges are the global goal for adaptation and the handling of loss and damage. Since Paris, this has been the third pillar of international climate policy, alongside mitigation and adaptation. To begin with the Global Goal for Adaptation, which is anchored in the Paris Agreement. The objective was established, established, by Article 7 of the Paris Agreement, but is a lot less precise than the mitigation or temperature targets. That has everything to do with the fact that there is no parameter on adaptation side such as number of degrees Celsius or number of tons of CO2 equivalent on the mitigation side. That makes it a more complex problem to grasp. Nevertheless, four COPs following the inclusion of this objective in the Paris Agreement were decided in Madrid to set up one of the committees of the international regime, the Adaptation Committee, to consider what form the Global Goal for Adaptation could take. That report was ready for COP26, but the COP itself was not ready to make any decisions about the global goal. Thus, as one of the components of the climate pact, it was decided to conduct a work programme, the Glasgow Sharm el-Sheikh work program, so called because the next COP in Sharm el-Sheikh, in Egypt, will take place. These are four workshops per year based on the IPCC's work and with annual reporting to COP. In 2023, during COP28 in the United Arab Emirates, it is intended to take a decision on theglobal goal on adaptation. As far as loss and damage is concerned, this subject is very difficult, which has always been difficult in the international negotiations, because everyone hung the sword of Damocles in the form of objective responsibility and claims for damages. Nevertheless, the Paris Agreement includes an article specifically about loss and damage. That was done, because there was a disclaimer in the decision that the article cannot be used as a legal basis for damages claims in the international judicial system. It is an important step forward, especially from the point of view of the most vulnerable countries, especially the small island states and the least developed countries, which face the highest loss and damage. However, it appears difficult to put that into practice. Nevertheless, since the Paris Agreement, we have made progress at technical level, with two years ago as the last step the establishment in Madrid of the Santiago Network of international institutions and agencies active in the field of loss and damage with a view to better cooperation and coordination. During the COP in Glasgow, we had to develop the functions of that network further, and we succeeded in doing so. It was also decided to provide funding for the operation of that network. The major bottleneck in Glasgow was not so much the financing of such a network, but the financing of loss and damage itself, so the fundamental question is how to deal with the fact that developing countries suffer significant financial costs as a result of climate change in the form of loss and damage. It is about damage that cannot be prepared by, for example, an adaptation policy. The G77 in China, i.e. all developing countries together, asked that a decision be taken in Glasgow to create a loss and damage facility, an instrument similar to the Green Climate Fund or the Global Environment Facility, the two other pillars of the financial mechanism of the international climate regime. That proposal was put forward very late in the COP and it was therefore impossible to find consensus on it. Consensus has emerged, also in this area, in the form of the establishment of a work programme, called a dialogue here, on the financing of activities to help developing countries cope with loss and damage. This dialogue will have to be completed by 2024. All developers hope that this dialogue will lead to something similar to what they had proposed with the loss and damage facility in Glasgow. As far as adaptation is concerned, the discussion on adaptation at COP, as has been the case for many years, was largely about the financing of adaptation measures in developing countries. The slide shows the latest OECD report on this subject. The volumes for international climate finance from north to south were specifically reserved for adaptation actions in recent years were much lower than those for the mitigation part. That has been one of the troubles in the negotiations for years. How do we strike a balance between financing mitigation and adaptation? COP saw a number of successes in terms of adaptation financing. The small adaptation fund set up in the context of the Kyoto Protocol, specifically to help small developing countries with their adaptation, had called on donors to promise 120 million US dollars against COP. Of course, the threefold of the requested has been achieved. In a sense, this already showed a willingness of donors to increase climate adaptation. We see a similar picture with the other important fund that specifically focuses on adaptation in the least developed countries, with an amount of a similar order of magnitude. Belgium is one of the largest contributors to this specific fund, after Germany. The main outcome of the negotiations is that it has now been decided that industrialised countries collectively need to double the resources they provide for adaptation measures in developing countries at least by 2025, compared to 2019, in order to improve the balance between mitigation and adaptation. The balance doesn't exactly match. In 2019, there was 20 billion dollars for adaptation. That is not half of the 100 billion we had to mobilise by 2020. The Belgian international climate finance is divided between adaptation and mitigation. It is a collective objective. Belgium should not necessarily feel directly affected by this doubling objective, since more than half of our international climate funding is already going to adaptation. An important element in adaptation financing was attached to the negotiations on the Paris Bluebook, in particular the negotiations on the further rules for Article 6, the carbon markets. The Article 6.4 mechanism had already decided that a share of proceedings would be imposed, i.e. a levy on the generation of appropriations in that context. They, like the CDM under the Kyoto Protocol, would be used to finance the Adaptation Fund. An agreement was found at the Glasgow Summit on how much it should be: 5% of the allowances generated by this mechanism goes to the Adaptation Fund. The other mechanism created by the Paris Agreement, in Article 6.2, is not a project-related mechanism as set out in Article 6.4. It's about trading units. There is only the strong encouragement of the parties to allocate part of the funds generated by transactions with this mechanism to the Adaptation Fund. As I said earlier, our funding target by 2020, which was agreed at the time in Copenhagen, was to achieve USD 100 billion in international climate finance by 2020. That was one of the sub-objectives of the UK Presidency of the COP26. I can show you the same figures again from the point of view of the balance between adaptation and mitigation, but now to show that, according to the latest figures, we have not yet achieved the 2020 target of USD 100 billion a year, perhaps even by 2020. This was not an easy context to talk about climate finance. This context was, of course, not a source of confidence for our partners in the developing countries. One of the results of the discussion is that, to their grave regret, the objective has not been met. However, the Delivery Plan was welcomed. During the year, German Minister Jochen Flasbarth and Canadian Minister Wilkinson have done a tour du monde to see to what extent donor countries would be prepared to contribute more to international climate finance in the coming years. During the COP they published their climate finance delivery plan, based on what they were told by their interlocutors. On the basis of these announcements, we can assume that the target of USD 100 billion will indeed be achieved, even if it is with a few years' delay, from 2023 onwards. If the amounts for these five years were to be'refunded', the average figure would be around 100 billion. That is, of course, a question of appreciation. In addition to the deep regret about not achieving that target by 2020, it was also welcomed that the announced funding flows would exceed 100 billion over the next five years. That's important. This was important as a confidence-building measure, but is also important in the context of one of the COP's decisions, namely to maintain the EUR 100 billion target for 2020, as decided in Copenhagen, until 2025. A new quantitative collective financing objective should be decided by 2025. That's why not getting that 100 billion was such an uncomfortable starting point. During the COP in Glasgow, we had to start talking about what this new quantitative funding target would be like. It is therefore about the objective that would apply from 2025. A further process has emerged to identify this objective, namely an ad hoc work programme running from next year to 2024, when the objective will have to be approved, in the form of classical expert dialogues. There are also ministerial dialogues on this subject, to keep this process high on the political agenda, and an annual COP decision in 2024. In parallel, the COP in Durban decided to set up a process on long-term climate finance, an even older process than the Copenhagen 100 billion process. That process would normally end in Glasgow, but developing countries asked for it to be restarted in order to continue to have a platform to talk about international climate finance in broad terms. The COP then decided to continue this long-term finance process until 2027, because by then we will know how high climate finance was in 2025 and whether the new target will have been achieved. Mobilising private funding was also an important objective of the UK Presidency, in the context of Article 2 (1) (c) of the Paris Agreement, which talks about making all financial flows coherent with the Paris Agreement's temperature objective and adaptation objectives. A decision has also been taken, rather in qualitative terms than in terms of establishing a concrete process, let alone concrete decisions on how to implement that article of the Paris Agreement. Nevertheless, it is a political signal that investment flows must also be made coherent with the Paris Agreement. Finally, I come to the finishing of the rule book with a number of outstanding points. The most difficult ones are the rules for Article 6, the international carbon market, but also some provisions for reporting and monitoring progress. Most of the implementing rules were already agreed in 2018, during Katowice's COP, but not the points I mentioned, even during COP25 in Madrid. Why was that so hard? Here too, there is the picture of the gap between the level of ambition contained in the NDCs and the trajectory to 1.5°C. If the rules on the international carbon market are not set properly, then the perverse effect is given instead of contributing to reducing that gap, reducing emissions, just beating a leak in the system, by things like double counting and transferring hot air from the system that Kyoto created. It is of the utmost importance, in a context of ambitions that are already not high enough to achieve the objectives, that this is avoided. This proved impossible during the previous COPs. In Glasgow, we managed to do so and we were able to lay down the rules for the two market mechanisms that were created in Paris in an adequate way. This is almost entirely successful, but a number of more concrete things still need to be worked out. I've been talking about the Share of Proceedings. I repeat that not here, but interesting in terms of the contributions that market mechanisms must make to the level of ambition, is that the Article 6.4 mechanism should destroy or cancel a minimum of 2% of the units, of the credits generated in this way in favour of the atmosphere. Article 6.2 also sends a signal, albeit less strong, just as it did with the Share of Proceedings. It was also a signal, but less strong and less binding than for Article 6.4 on the project mechanism. Transparency is a very technical issue. It was actually about tables that should be used to report data. In fact, the fundamental question was how much flexibility in reporting data can still be given to developing countries under Paris, which no longer differentiates between annex 1 countries and non-annex 1 countries, which the regime did before. This was again a problem that we had to deal with during two COPs. It has now led to an agreement in which the common basis for reporting and that is more secure. Flexibility is limited to those countries which would really not otherwise have the capacity, for example, to comply with all reporting obligations in their statistical systems. A third outstanding point were the common time frames or common time frames for NDCs. This is important in order to be able to compare NDCs during the five-year-old, now annual, cycle, so that the NDCs have as much as possible the same end date in terms of their objectives. So it is now decided to introduce a five-year common time frame. That was important for the European Union. It is also important to note that the European Union did not have a position on this for a long time, because there was disagreement between the ten-year-olds and five-year-olds. That has changed since October 2021. It is important that the five years that the European Union had asked for together with many others have made it. This is important because otherwise 10 years will have to wait before an NDC can be revised, which would, of course, make it difficult to adjust the level of ambition based on the ambition cycle in a timely manner. The downside is that it is not an obligation, but an encouragement from the parties to do so. Finally, there were many other issues that were raised in the margins of the negotiations. Therefore, I do not want to marginalize them, because they are very important to many players, people and communities. These include human rights, fair transition, the gender dimension, the role of young people, the links with biodiversity, oceans and indigenous peoples. There have been important references to this in the main decisions in Glasgow and a number of specific work programmes have also been continued or set up, such as the ACE programme, the gender decision, the work programme on local communities and indigenous peoples and the dialogue on the ocean-climate nexus. In short, what are the main results of the last COP? I do not know if I have already said that, but I think that most observers, which I also count myself on, are positive to very positive about the outcome of the COP, with that stronger commitment to keeping the 1.5° C objectives within reach, the net zero emission targets by the middle of the century, the enhanced ambition cycle, which is crucial to achieving them, ensuring the credibility of the Paris Agreement as a framework for international policy, the completion of the rulebook and progress in terms of adaptation, progress with the objective of doubling the financing of adaptation. Moreover, there was no blockage related to loss and damage. There will be a process and we have also left to set a new funding target that will apply from 2025 and the forum for discussions on long-term climate financing will be maintained. It is also important that I have mentioned this time and again when I was talking about these different processes, namely that most of these processes are supported by ministerial participation, which can contribute to the necessary political support to achieve results. That was also the evaluation, I think, of the British Presidency itself. "We have kept 1.5 degrees alive" noted Alok Sharma, the chairman of the COP. But he immediately attached a warning to that: the one and a half degree is still alive, but his pulse is weak if we do not take action quickly on the ground to reduce the gap that is still there. I'll give you a small overview of all the existing processes and processes that started after the COP. I've gone over them with you, but it might be useful to show them graphically as well. For example, you will see the main areas in which we will work in the coming years, at international level, but certainly also at national level, especially when it comes to the process of mitigation ambition. I would also remind you that from 2023 onwards there will be a five-year cycle of ambition in the form of global stocktake. The work begins next year. What are the consequences of the call for all actors to review and strengthen the NDCs at national level and in the case of Belgium at European level by the end of 2020. The question will still have to be asked as to whether this is the case for the European Union with its NDC of at least 55% emission reduction. There are analyses, and you will certainly know them, which show that this is not consistent with one and a half degrees. A discussion on this will probably have to take place, in a context where, of course, major progress is being made in transposing 55% of the target through the Fit for 55 package, with a real acceleration from 2022 under the French Presidency. A similar question needs to be answered with regard to the long-term strategy. This question needs to be answered not only by Europe, but also by Belgium, because it has submitted its long-term national strategy, which does not lead to net zero emissions to the UN. All processes related to international climate financing could be the reason for a discussion at Belgian level on the review of the Belgian contribution to international climate financing. Qualitative is good, in terms of balance between adaptation and mitigation. I've already shown you that. It is also good in terms of the relationship between gifts and loans. This has often been a point of criticism for the developing countries. But the amount, compared to most other Western donors, was quite small. I'll leave it at that, Mr. Chairman. I hope that there is still time for questions and that I will be able to answer them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic638x.u4	There's definitely time for questions. First, we shall allow the leaders of delegations to speak and then the political groups themselves. I propose that we limit ourselves to two minutes per speaker. I will try to keep an eye on the speaking time so that it does not go all the way. I shall first give the floor to Christian Leysen, the Head of Delegation of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic638x.u5	Mr President, I will report as a newcomer. My colleague Gryffroy has a richer experience. It was, of course, a UN conference with many countries and many participants. There were many explanations. It was a high mass for one piece, but also, if we are honest, a media circus for one piece. Both the political leaders and the action groups have ensured that they attracted the necessary media attention with their material. It was mainly a meeting place, a meeting place, and a follow-up place. This COP was the opportunity for me, and for many members of the delegation, to gain expertise. In addition to the big gatherings in large halls with a thousand people, the different booths of the countries were really interesting. There were mini-seminars where, thanks to digital or hybrid meetings, they had particularly interesting meetings, and where they could discuss technical topics and best practices. I thought it was important. There were also many delegation leaders or members of other countries. Also, I must admit, a great deal of work has been done within the Belgian delegation. I should like to thank Mr Wittoeck and the entire administration and the people who organised the meetings. What did I miss during the meetings? A number of themes remain under-explored at such a climate conference. For example, the demographic evolution of the world's population is a dimension that should be taken into account. The issue of digitalisation and its impact on the climate was also not sufficiently addressed. To a lesser extent, the issue of energy efficiency and the challenge for the world's population to deal more efficiently with energy have been discussed. There has been talk about new technologies, for example about nuclear fusion, but to a lesser extent. What I noticed is that there was a relatively high level of coverage on other issues, for example on gender equality, as you mentioned. This is an important issue, but today it seems that the climate label is being put on everywhere to obtain funding. If there was one slogan I remembered, it was "money, money, money!" It is about money, mobilising it for projects where it can be assumed that it helps or compensates or organises transfers. You've brought the whole story about adaptation and loss and damage.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic638x.u6	For the rest one has to work in the whole jargon of declarations, agreements, partnerships and pacts, always in combination with a name. One almost needs a manual for it. I found your speech a very good summary, Mr Wittoeck, also for the people who have been there. As I said, we have had good contacts there in Belgium, and I will go into it in more detail later. In the morning, there was always a briefing on the state of play for all delegates. What we all deplored as Members of Parliament was that the Belgian side had not reached a sufficiently far-reaching level of preparation and coordination between governments. We have called on the governments with a number of parliamentarians from the various parliaments, from nine different parties. After all, I believe that we as a Parliament should play the role of motor, as has happened under the leadership of Philippe Muyters with the famous resolution. This issue is not just about money, it is also about the will to change something.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic638x.u7	On behalf of the Flemish Parliament, I can join Mr Leysen. I'd still like to give you a few more focus points. There has been a great deal of debate about non-discrimination and gender equality. I'm afraid of losing focus. It is indeed a meeting place, as I have experienced very strongly, more than the previous times. I also felt that more attention was paid to practical measures and concrete solutions. Several countries have come up with proposals, of things they have already applied. I thought that was important. In previous years it was about how much per cent a country was going to do, and now it was very specific what was being done, both developed and developing countries. There was indeed no talk of the digitisation of energy. However, the climate conference was digitised. All the meetings were hybrid. Two years ago in Madrid that did not exist and now it was just standard. One country was stronger than the other. I found Germany the strongest, where even the speakers were sitting behind the screen. Finally, I also noticed that there was much more of a bottom-up approach from the regions. There were many regions, more than the previous ones, from Spain, Italy, France and, of course, us too. There were many more contacts between the regions, which I think is important. This will enable us to talk to Andalusia, for example, about what they can do within their powers and where they think they will be by 2030. For example, there is an exchange of experience.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic638x.u8	I would now like to give the floor to Mr Tristan Roberti of the Brussels Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic638x.u9	Mr President, thank you for giving me the floor and for the initiative of this COP26 follow-up session. I would also like to thank Mr Withoek for his lengthy explanations. On the side of the Brussels Parliament, we were three representatives (Ms Van Achter, Mr Casier and I) travelling to the COP in Glasgow. As my predecessors have said, this is an interesting event. Each country presents the problems it faces and the answers it seeks to provide, as well as numerous testimonies. Personally, I have been struck by the testimony of the island or arid representatives who are already suffering from the effects of global warming. We, the members of the delegation, wish to stress the voluntarism of Mr. Wittoeck's teams and thank them for their welcome. We have participated in many events, including the communication initiated by parliamentarians on the spot to recall the content of the interparliamentary resolution; regret that agreement on burden sharing could not be reached and invite each of the country's entities to join the European objective of -55%. A report of this visit is being prepared and will shortly be presented to the Brussels Parliament. I won't be any longer. Mr Wittoeck mentioned some progress, but in general we were able to observe that a number of elements were reducing the scope of the text and that many elements were postponed to future deadlines. That's why we talked about COP in half-tone because the expectations were high but, unfortunately, the breath when it came out was no longer there. President Alok Sharma was also clear in his conclusions on the matter. I believe that the momentum of the interparliamentary dialogue should be continued. The dialogue allowed us to prepare for the COP on the technical and scientific level (since the subject is broad and the climate issue is not easy to understand), as well as on the political level by means of a resolution that allowed us to follow up on the spot through this interparliamentary communication, in which many political groups have been involved and, ultimately, to allow an evaluation today. It is therefore important to continue this dynamic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic638x.u10	Mr. President, I won't be very long. I wasn't planning to intervene at this point. I would just like to thank Mr Wittoeck for coming to give us these explanations. This presentation was very interesting. I will let the political groups ask their questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic638x.u11	I would have liked to ask Mr Wittoeck a few more technical questions. Firstly, you are right to talk about the campaigns with which the British Presidency worked. I had the impression that that was a new methodology. Do you think that is a better method of working on sub-topics and trying to get a number of countries around each theme, rather than seeking a single global agreement where everyone might suddenly get cold feet? A second technical question concerns the EUR 100 billion required for funding. Is there already a table showing what has actually been spent? Then what were these funds spent on? Which countries did they go to? We always look at the incoming side and how to do that, but unless I'm wrong, I've never seen attention to the outgoing side: where does the money go, and for which projects is it used? A third question is about the pie diagram you showed me. They account for 6% of global emissions in pale green Europe, Peru and another country: these are the countries that do their homework on reporting well "acceptable'. Other countries are doing worse. At the moment, therefore, there is still a lot of work to be done: if we add 'acceptable' and 'average' together, less than a quarter of those responsible for emissions are actually working on figures. Do I understand that correctly? I also had a small comment concerning clarification. Belgium has indeed co-signed the High Ambition Coalition (HAC) in the framework of the European approval, which eventually did not sign Poland so that Europe could not endorse it. However, Belgium has approved the HAC but has not signed as a separate country. So much for my technical questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic638x.u12	Mr President, Mr Wittoeck, thank you both for your presentation today but also for the efficient conduct of the Belgian technical delegation. We have seen in Glasgow how committed this delegation was, also politically engaged, with the presence, last week, of three climate ministers who were directly involved in the negotiations. I have two very specific questions to ask you about the presentation you made to us. The first concerns the carbon market. You rightly explained that Article 6 had been validated in Glasgow. This means that the United Nations system of the carbon market will be put in place. Is there already a concrete deadline? How will this mechanism integrate or converge with the existing European mechanism? What are the bridges between each other? The second concerns the long-term strategy to be submitted by Belgium at the United Nations level. I thought it was under the dome of the European Union that Belgium entered its strategies, especially in the long term. So are there two different mechanisms? You addressed the critical importance of the quality of mitigation strategies and also the process of assessing these strategies, including on an annual basis. I'll be right with you. This is an issue that is relevant at the global level. I think it would also be relevant at the Belgian level. I would like to know your opinion on the matter. Do we already have a body to study the effectiveness of the various strategies at federal and regional level for Belgium on an annual basis? If this is not the case, is there any way to improve this during this period? It could also be, I believe, an interparliamentary impetus on the part of Parliaments. It was said that parliamentarians had been heavily mobilized before and during the COP. It may also be a continuation of parliamentary work on the climate to reflect on this annual assessment of the various measures that are being taken to mitigate greenhouse gases.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic638x.u13	Mr President, on behalf of my group, I thank Mr Wittoeck for his presentation today and all the services that accompanied us during this mission to Glasgow. For my part, it was my first mission as a Member of Parliament and, above all, as a citizen at such a summit. With regard to an exchange of views, I would like to share with you elements that I felt were important during this COP and that we will have to deal with in our follow-up at the Belgian level. Two topics were discussed but could not succeed or did not achieve the ambitions I set myself during this COP in Glasgow: it is the question of financing the international climate and burden sharing. In addition, I would like to stress another important element that will probably have to be put in place, at the level of the federal Parliament and possibly in the other Parliaments, if they are to say so, it is the question of the objectives to be achieved in terms of reducing CO2 emissions. There was this long debate at the COP about the coordination between the different levels of power to have a common vision for Belgium. I have been particularly positively surprised by some other countries such as Denmark, which have highly ambitious targets for reducing CO2 emissions for their own countries by 2030. The idea is not to compare what is not comparable, but, in any case, there is probably a need to draw on positive initiatives, particularly in this country. My question in this interparliamentary dialogue concerns the follow-up to the parliamentary work that has already been carried out over the past year, namely the parliamentary resolution that we co-built together in this dialogue. Indeed, on the spot, this text was very useful for us to accompany the executive representatives represented in the framework of this Belgian mission to the COP. COP26 has had its share of successes and failures. You have to say it. Perhaps we should prepare the next one even better and take the time to do so! Can we have any information on how the forthcoming interparliamentary dialogues will proceed to find out how to co-build the future texts? That would be an appropriate follow-up to that meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic638x.u14	Mr President, as my colleagues have said, this conference is a half-tone assessment for our country, since no agreement has been reached on the allocation of national climate efforts. As a whole, if not, the Glasgow Pact was also judged by many observers to be disappointing because of its lack of ambition, and the lack of willingness of stakeholders to address climate challenges through technology was also reported. Questions can therefore be asked for future editions of the COP about agreements that might or might not occur. On burden-sharing, negotiations between the Federal State and the Regions on the cooperation agreement on climate and energy targets for 2021-2030 have not yet been concluded. Last June, the various parties concerned expressed their willingness to reach a political agreement before COP26. On 11 October last, Walloon Minister of Climate and Energy Henry, who chaired the National Climate Commission, reaffirmed his commitment to reaching an agreement on the sharing of climate goals 2030 before COP26. However, no agreement was reached either before or during COP26. We can therefore ask ourselves what is the status of this dossier and whether it will succeed. Some of the key competences for a strong climate policy are shared competences between the federal state and the regions. In fact, the powers of the federal authority in matters of climate are inter alia related to the development of offshore wind, the isolation of its own structure, etc. The issue of coordination with the Regions, which are responsible for renewable energy and housing insulation, is crucial. The different governments of our country must agree and go in the same direction to achieve these goals. As part of the review of the National Energy-Climate Plan (NECP), how do you see this cooperation and how do you make our climate policy more efficient? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic638x.u15	Thank you, Mr Wittoeck, for the presentation. I have to apologize for missing a big piece of the presentation. I hope that she will be sent back and will refrain from further questioning and commenting, to get a good look at the presentation first. I apologize for the delay. I'm curious about the further answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic638x.u16	Mr Wittoeck, I would like to hear how you see the carbon trade as a whole. We know that mechanisms are being set up with which we have had some unpleasant surprises in the past. Has that been enough of the order of the day, or should we pay particular attention to it? For those who haven't seen it, there was a beautiful documentary on Netflix about that theme. That was one question. The other question was: what role does Europe play? I had the impression that at the beginning Europeans came knocking on their chests like those who set the standard, then came in second order America and China announcing themselves as the great world powers. At the very end of the journey India came to say that there was 1 billion there and that others could not settle that among themselves. How do you see the role of Europe? There was also a bit of a reproach that Europe, which has sent the most carbon into the atmosphere, is now in an almost neo-colonialistic way asking it to do well and others to make a leap and to abolish all coal and fossil energy. Last but not least, what do you think about the subject of 'green nuclear energy'? What did you take into account when people in the European Union seem to want to include this in taxonomy?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic638x.u17	Thank you, Mr Witttoeck, for this solid overview of the conclusions of the discussions. I have seen with my own eyes that COP26 is an impressive organization. That has given me a better idea of how the negotiations work. I was very excited to meet a lot of people to talk about this global problem. It is the high mass of climate policy that cannot be separated from any level of policy today. In that sense, it was very interesting. I have also learned that not only the young people are rightly concerned about the climate. Even 90-plussers, such as David Attenborough and Queen Elisabeth, have given impressive speeches. The question that everyone is asking is what the conclusion is. You say it's positive. Some images of the COP have stuck with me. One was the chairman who, at some point, could no longer control his emotions and showed his disappointment at the fact that we have not managed to separate ourselves from coal. This also has to do with what the President said just now, with international politics around it. Another image that has remained with me is the very symbolic speech given by the Minister of Tuvalu from the sea. I'm afraid his fear is not unjustified. We know today that not only Tuvalu, but also islands such as the Seychelles and the Maldives may not make it to the end of the century, and I do not feel that we have saved those countries. The criticism of developing countries in particular has persisted. Before the COP it was stated that today we are at a global warming rate of 1.2 degrees and on a path to a warming up of 2.7 degrees. This means that large parts of this planet will not be viable for much of the year. António Guterres said that we are on a catastrophic path to a hellish future. I can hardly estimate the impact of this COP on that, but I don't feel like we've gotten off that path. I would like to conclude by saying something about the Belgian situation. It is nothing but embarrassing, even though it has little impact on the overall result. When I see that our country used to join the High Ambition Coalition, I'm not very proud of it. I know that we, as the very last country, just before Poland, which did not join, were persuaded to vote through Europe, but I think that a country like Belgium is unworthy of that. Mr Witttoeck, we have adopted this interparliamentary climate resolution here. To what extent do you estimate that our negotiations have taken place within the contours of that resolution? Is that a favor to you? Ladies and gentlemen of the committee, the PowerPoint presentation will be delivered to you. So you don't have to worry about that. I have also heard questions about what we are doing with this interfederal climate committee in preparation for COP27. I think we will be able to discuss this in the course of the work. So I do not expect an immediate answer from you, Mr Wittoeck. I shall now give you the floor for the answers to the questions that have been asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic638x.u18	Thank you for the many questions. I would first like to answer Mr Leysen's questions because he has to leave early. First, I want to share my own appreciation of the role of such a COP as a meeting place. I didn't say that explicitly. I do that a lot. I would like to add that it is not just a diplomatic and political event that is being negotiated, but really a meeting place with very many participants from all over the world and from every angle of climate policy, from both the government and non-governmental actors in that very broad field, ranging from very large international financiers on the classic environmental movement to groups and citizens working on specific niches on human rights, but also many others. I would also like to thank you for your fine words to our delegation. This means that we have done our job properly. I will inform the members of our delegation of your appreciation. The delegation is also a very interesting meeting and consultation place. Mr President, I am abstaining from any comment on the fact that the discussions on national burden-sharing have not produced any results. I wasn't there, so I can't say anything about that either. Mr Leysen, you asked a question about the carbon trade. I didn't see that film, so I don't know exactly what it is about, but there were indeed several problems with emissions trading in the past. There was the surplus on that market, which was commonly called hot air sometimes. This ensured that there was an oversupply of allowances and no price impulse through the market to further reduce emissions. Cases have also taken place under the CDM that were unintentional, such as encouraging the production of more fluorinated greenhouse gases, as their emissions can easily be reduced and give rise to emission credits. However, it is also about issues such as non-respect for human rights and damage to biodiversity. I only gave a few examples. Most of these cases have indeed been dealt with. Then I come to the questions about Article 6.4, which is the successor to the CDM. However, there are guarantees that the baselines, which will form the basis for generating credits, will be robust. They will not generate hot air or unexpected extra emissions, but rather the opposite. The hot air from the Kyoto system has not completely disappeared from the system, but it is currently difficult to assess its impact. Then I come to the questions about the CDM regarding the impact on human rights and local communities and so on. The new mechanism provides for an appeal mechanism, a grievance mechanism, whereby the persons concerned can appeal to the body that will govern the mechanism. I now come to the role of the European Union in the broader geopolitical context. It is true that there have been talks between the United States and China during and before the COP, which, by the way, was very constructive. For example, the language we see in the Climate Pact about one and a half degrees as an objective can also be found in a bilateral text agreed by the United States and China at COP. India is of course an important player. It always has been. India is the second most populous country on the planet. The Indian Government also represents a lot of people and, above all, a lot of people living below the poverty line, which is an important dimension of the international climate regime in response to what is essentially a problem of division with many dimensions. I would like to remind you that the population of India, which lives below a certain poverty line, is more numerous than the population of all the least developed countries combined. It is therefore quite right that India weighs so heavily on the negotiations, although that is very difficult. Your question was rather directed towards the question of whether the European Union still has a role to play in this. I think so. It is not because the European Union represents around 10% of global emissions that we have no impact. The European Union has now truly fulfilled its unrighteous self-declared role as a global leader. The European Union's climate policy is a source of inspiration for many others. It is not recognised enough in the opinion of some European colleagues. For example, the Chinese emissions trading system has been created with very active assistance from the European Commission, to give you an example. A second example is the emission standards for passenger cars and vans. For this too, it is often the European Union that sets the standard and then is followed by others. Let me give you two examples. The impact of the announced carbon border adjustment mechanism and the concerns about it from some angles prove that the European Union is a sufficiently important player given the size of our market and its importance as an economic player. The historical responsibility of the EU and North America for historical emissions was long-standing in the pre-Paris negotiations in the wider equity debate. What parameters will we use to address the issue of distribution fairly? As such, the debate on historical responsibility is no longer present in the negotiations, but the broader question of fairness surrounding the application of the principle of common but differentiated responsibility and respectful capacities remains at stake. There is therefore no longer any specific discussion about whether historical responsibility should be a dividing principle, because the architecture of the Paris Agreement is a bottom-up architecture. Each Party shall assess for itself whether its NDC represents the highest ambition and whether that is fair. I am not talking about EU taxonomy and the role of nuclear energy. This is a political issue to which representatives of the government, who I am not, would perhaps answer better. Mr President, I will now answer your questions. You referred to the importance of the campaigns and sectoral initiatives. These aren't new. I remind you of the One Planet Summit that President Macron organised a year after Paris and the Climate Summit that Secretary General Guterres organised in 2019 with a lot of such initiatives. I have pointed out that the Glasgow Breakthroughs are trying to better provide for a follow-up process. These initiatives, of course, have the advantage that they often also mobilise actors in the field, but they have the disadvantage that there is no mechanism that will ensure the follow-up. So that is one of the issues that needs to be resolved even better. Is one system better than another? I do not think so, the question is not whether one is better than the other, the two must be complementary. We cannot achieve the goals of Paris if we do not succeed in mobilising the actors on the ground. This requires, of course, national policies, but given the international nature of the activities of, for example, private actors, it is good to mobilise them at international level on the various sub-topics. Well, that's a good thing. I didn't include it in my slides, but one of the things that emerged during Glasgow was that a coalition of major actors in the financial market, representing $130,000 billion in assets, committed to contributing to net zero emissions. That is just one of the many things that are happening there and which can certainly be powerful in the implementation of the Paris objectives. As far as the use of the USD 100 billion is concerned, I would suggest that we take a look at the two OECD reports I quoted in my slides, which illustrated the deficit of the 100 billion. I sometimes lack enough technical knowledge in this broad area, but I am sure that all the different mechanisms there are, funds like Green Climate Fund, JEF, Adaptation Fund, Least Developed Countries Fund and many others, also report on what the funds are spent on. From the evaluation I showed about the quality of the announcements and commitments to net zero emissions, I do not know the methodology by heart. Climate Action Tracker is used for this, but it is an assessment of the certainty that the policy documents on the table provide that the net zero target is met. In this sense, the European Union, which has included net zero objectives in its legislation, is certainly adequate. This is not the case for all countries. That in itself has nothing to do with reporting or anything, that is an evaluation of the robustness, so to speak, of the documents underlying that objective. It is therefore also important that the process has now been launched which calls on countries that have not yet done so to submit a long-term objective. That is the opportunity for the Secretariat of the Convention to include qualitative aspects in the synthesis report and so on. There is work to be done, but the process that is now underway offers the opportunity to do it. Indeed, what you said about the High Ambition Coalition is true, namely that Belgium has authorised the European Union to sign, but has not signed nationally. I'm sorry if that wasn't clear. Let me turn to Mr Florent's first question on Article 6 and the link with the European quota trading system. In fact, the only place where the rules on Article 6 operate within the framework of the European system is Switzerland. Transactions between these two systems will therefore have to be carried out in accordance with the rules of Article 6. At the moment, this is the only link, and there is no indication that this should change. Already before the establishment of the rules on Article 6, and even before the Paris Agreement, the use of the international carbon market to achieve European objectives was excluded. The target, which was 40% and increased to 55%, is a domestic target, and this applies not only to countries but also to companies participating in the CO2 trading scheme. We cannot therefore use the mechanisms currently established in the context of Articles 6.2 and 6.4 of the Paris Agreement without changing the European climate law, which just came into force last July. With regard to the Belgian long-term strategy, unlike the CDN, where Belgium does not have a determined contribution at national level but needs to be integrated into the European CDN, there is a European strategy but also national strategies. The establishment of a national strategy is also an obligation in the context of European legislation. Belgium had therefore prepared this strategy and submitted it to the European Commission in the context of European legal obligations, but also submitted the same strategy to the United Nations. This is not the case for all Member States, these are two different approaches. I come to the suggestion that, at Belgian level, we draw on the annual evaluation cycle that was set up in Glasgow. To my knowledge, such an annual assessment at national level does not actually exist. I know that at the regional level, there are planning and evaluation cycles for plans and that, recently, the federal government has also established a system to improve the monitoring of federal policy implementation in the context of the NCCN. In this context, the government also announced that it would organize roundtables. This exists at the level of all the competent federated authorities, but not at the national level. Yet the data generally exist. They are generated within the National Climate Commission, which prepares mission inventories, mission projections, reports to the European Commission and the United Nations, evaluation of policies and measures, etc. Mrs Hanus's question, it seems to me, was mainly about interparliamentary dialogue, a question which I do not have to answer. Ms. Czekalski said that, as is always the case, some analyses show a lack of ambition on the part of COP26. The results of a COP are indeed always relative. I quoted President Sharma on the occasion of the presentation of one of my last slides. We've said almost everything. The conditions under which the 1.5 degree limit can still be respected have been created, but not without urgent and ambitious actions being taken at the level of the parties. I said earlier that the architecture of the Paris Agreement is very largely a bottom up architecture. The international signal has now been given. This signal is, of course, sent, especially if it is to increase the level of ambition in terms of emission reduction, to the States parties to the Paris Agreement. I will not comment on the findings that you are also making about the fact that there is not yet an agreement on national burden sharing. You referred to the competences shared between the different levels of ambition of this country and, if I understood correctly, without paraphrasing you, the need for improved cooperation in the context of the National Energy-Climate Plan. I think I have answered part of this question by answering Mr. Florent's question on the annual evaluation. I suggest that you refer to a work carried out by my administration a few years ago, which we framed and supported: a national dialogue on climate governance, which the authors then took the initiative to submit to the House a proposal for a special climate law, which you will remember. I won't say anything about this one. The administration has been able to generate analyses in relation to the improvement of cooperation, which is far from perfect in this country. I do not see this myself, but it is the European Commission, the OECD, the IMF, the International Energy Agency, the European Council in the context of the European Semester and many others who have noticed it over the past decade. I don't have the list in front of me, but it's very long. They noted that there is a lack of cooperation and coordination between the various competent authorities in Belgium. If you want to read the reports of this national dialogue on climate governance that we carried out at the end of the previous legislature, they are available on our website (climate.be). I have already answered Mr Leysen's question. Mr Verduyckt's question was partly a statement. I refer again to the quote I showed and to the fact that much remains to be done. The fact that there was almost no agreement at the end of the COP may also have hit the President very hard after a year's work. Whether the SIDS or Small Island Developing States, the small island states and other vulnerable countries now have a better future? The COP decisions alone cannot guarantee that, but they are the best thing to do at international level. Again, the real action, both in terms of reducing emissions but also in terms of supporting developing countries in their policies to reduce emissions, to adapt and to deal with Loss and Damage, is now in the hands of the parties. I will not evaluate your resolution, Mr Verduyckt. It is not up to me to judge this value, but I think it is seen that the broad lines are not far from those in your resolution, when we look at the outcome of this COP. I have not made it a line-by-line analysis, but in that sense it demonstrates a good analysis of the main lines and broad political support for what was ultimately decided by this COP. I hope I have answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic638x.u19	Are there any further questions for Mr Wittoeck? If that is not the case, I would like to thank Mr Witttoeck for his long speech and his answers to the questions.
