ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic640x.u1	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, my question is on a subject that we regularly debate. A report by the European External Action Service states that at least one Central African battalion formed by European forces has joined the ranks of the private group Wagner, a group of Russian mercenaries. Following these revelations, the European Union is currently studying sanctions against the Wagner Group. Not only is an important budget dedicated to the training of security forces in various missions on the African continent, but also information on the military approach of the various European armies is conveyed during this training. The loss of control of a battalion formed by us is very regrettable but also means the transfer of our know-how to a group of mercenaries close to the Kremlin. Minister, what sanctions are we talking about here? Could the information available to the Central African battalion formed by Europeans constitute a danger for future missions to Africa, for example? Do you have information on other fields of activity of the Wagner Group that coincide with NATO military operations?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic640x.u2	Mr President, Mrs Jadin, on 13 December 2021 the European Council adopted a series of restrictive measures against the Wagner Group and eight persons and three related entities. The Council decision aims to limit the subversive activities of the Wagner Group. The individuals and entities that have been listed will now be subject to an assets freeze in the European Union. These persons will also be prohibited from entering the territory of the European Union. In addition, persons and entities of the European Union shall be prohibited from making funds available to them, either directly or indirectly. Legislative acts containing the names of the persons and entities concerned have been published in the Official Journal of the European Union at the end of the Council. Due to the increasing influence of the Wagner Group on the training and execution activities of the Central African armed forces, on 29 November the European Union also decided to change temporarily and reversible the organisation of the EUTM RCA training mission in order to be able to relaunch these training activities smoothly as soon as the context permits. The European Union is planning a further assessment of the situation in the spring of 2022. The instructors of the EUTM RCA mission form the Central African battalions, according to standards that respect Belgian and European security rules. These units do not pose a safety problem because they did not have access to sensitive information during their training. On the other hand, you know that together with other European countries, Belgian Defence had already expressed concern to the Malian authorities about the possible involvement of the private security company Wagner in their country. This possible commitment would lead us to re-evaluate the form of our deployment in Mali. Within NATO, it is assumed that the Wagner Group is or has been deployed in Ukraine, Belarus, Syria and Libya. In the NATO area of responsibility, some hybrid actions in the Baltic States region are attributed to the Wagner Group. As regards operations in Iraq, the Mediterranean Sea or Kosovo, NATO has no evidence at this stage that the activities of the Wagner Group are likely to constitute a threat.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic640x.u3	Minister, thank you very much for your very detailed and clear answer. I note that the European Union has become fully aware of the danger of recruiting EU-trained military personnel into the Wagner Group. This is a worrying development. I hear severe sanctions have been taken. It's important. More broadly, this raises the question, as you have said, Madam Minister, of future operations but also of the objective pursued by this group of Russian mercenaries. Here, too, at the diplomatic level, further discussions should be held with Russia, bilaterally and perhaps multilaterally, in the head of the European Union.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic640x.u4	Minister, for many months now, the people of the eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo have faced the militias of the Coopérative pour le développement du Congo (Codeco). In the space of six months, nearly 1200 people have already lost their lives as part of these barbaric acts. We have also become aware of the fact that local NGOs are targeted and are not spared. The state of siege has been activated there for six months and is therefore under the authority of a military governor. However, the Congolese army is unable to effectively combat these militias and, as a result, popular support for the army is severely declining. According to various military experts, the Congolese army would simply not be prepared to face the Codeco. The lack of strategy and, above all, of resources is a very deplorable finding. Madam Minister, in the face of the bloody terror of the militias in the east of the country, is NATO already providing assistance to Kinshasa? If not, does it follow the situation very closely? Does it envisage other actions? Has the Government of the Democratic Republic of the Congo made a request for assistance in the fight against these repetitive attacks?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic640x.u5	Dear colleague, within NATO, the issue of violence and terrorism from the Alliance's southern flank, a region of which the DRC is a member, is regularly addressed. In general, NATO is closely following developments in the security situation in Africa. However, the DRC is not at the top of its current priorities, so NATO does not provide direct assistance at this stage. Furthermore, the Congolese Government has not made any request for assistance in the fight against these attacks in the eastern part of the country. In terms of bilateral relations between the Congolese armed forces and the Belgian Defence, a joint military commission was held last October in Brussels. On that occasion, Congolese representatives did not specifically request assistance to stabilize the situation in the eastern part of the country. However, Belgian Defence is studying several avenues for cooperation with the Congolese armed forces, including the possibility of providing refresher training for Congolese instructors in the Kindu region.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic640x.u6	Minister, thank you for that clear answer. Mr President, Madam Minister, this is a situation that we need to follow very closely, and I think we will still have to discuss it in the near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic640x.u7	Madam Minister, after the discovery of members of the far right in the army, you announced a strengthening of controls in the army. When recruiting, all military personnel will be carefully screened to ensure that they have no connection with any extremist movement. In 2020, a total of 4,500 security checks were conducted. They will be over 8,000 by the end of this year. As recruitment increases, the number of controls will also increase. The objective of carrying out checks throughout the career of military and civilian personnel will therefore inevitably become a little more complicated to achieve if the personnel of the screening cell are not increased. Minister, what were the main causes of failure during recruitment and screening tests, or even verification? How many staff are currently in charge of this mission? Will it be necessary to increase the number? Finally, would it not be possible to further investigate the clearance of highly confidential subjects and also to check the friends and association of candidates?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic640x.u8	Madam Secretary, after the Conings case, security controls on military personnel have been considerably increased. As Mrs Jadin mentioned, the number of controls increased from 4,500 in 2020 to 8,000 in 2021. In an article in Le Soir, Major Thierry Eeckhout says that Defense can still make it, but that the number of security clearances will increase as more people are recruited. According to him, checks on soldiers and civilians will become complicated throughout their career if they do not receive more staff for that purpose. The massive recruitment of Defence is therefore likely to cause security problems, as it is difficult to monitor a larger workforce. There is a risk that a situation will arise which will encourage the infiltration of extreme right-wing or extreme right-wing radicalisation of military personnel. What measures do you intend to take in terms of resources and manpower in order to ensure effective security oversight of defence personnel? What do you intend to do to eliminate the shortcomings in the screening of candidates and staff in the coming years?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic640x.u9	Dear colleagues, the main reasons for failure in screening tests are convictions for drug-related offences, assault, fraud and theft, as well as illegal possession of weapons. The SGRS never communicates to the public figures regarding its internal workforce. These figures are classified. Additional staff were recruited last year to cope with the increased workload of security audits. We will continue to recruit as required. We are now in a position to carry out security checks within the legally prescribed time limits. The recruitment plan for ADIV also aims at a number of additional staff for the Security Verifications and Safety Investigations services. The influx of both soldiers and civilians is under way. In addition, there is a plan in preparation for the digitisation of the various processes. This plan aims to increase the automation of the consultation of external and internal databases for the service concerned. This will allow for more screenings to be carried out in the shorter term. There are legislative initiatives currently under way in order to be able to verify all defence personnel in the short term, so that those who have not previously been subject to security verification are also affected. Given the rather small number of staff that has never been investigated, we evaluate that the catch-up movement can take place in three months with the current staff of the ADIV Verification Service. The scope of investigations, both for verifications and for in-depth safety investigations, has been laid down by the legislator in a classified directive. An entourage investigation of the person concerned was already planned by the legislator.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic640x.u10	Madam Minister, thank you. This is a very useful set of answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic640x.u11	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. It's already moving in the right direction. In any case, we insist that sufficient funds are allocated to screening and we will monitor progress in this respect closely on the basis of the figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic640x.u12	Mr President, Minister, I shall return to the software system for the payment of military betting and premiums. During the discussion of your policy paper, you explained these payment problems, but they now appear to be running out of time. Military pulls the alarm bell, including on social media. They are less and less reluctant to ensure that their payout is still not optimal at the moment. The payment of a number of benefits would have been delayed for six months now. Of course, the staff involved want everything to be put right very quickly. Can you tell me what's going on with that? What is the state of play on payout issues? Why were the premiums still not paid? Have you contacted the company that supplied the software? Did you fail her? After all, it leaves behind to solve the children's diseases that are at the root of the problem. If you did, what came out of the bus? If not, why haven't you done it yet? Can the current software system be changed or can it be returned to the old system? What would be the cost of that? It is really time to catch up and take concrete measures to solve the problem of payouts once and for all. A number of soldiers said that errors in the previous system occurred sporadically, while errors are currently considered normal. It can't be. I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic640x.u13	Mr President, Minister, Mrs Ponthier's introduction was long but complete. I won't repeat them. The problems have been known and known for too long. I would have liked you to give me an update. How come 1 July 2021 was not reached? This date was put forward in spring as an important date against which the problems had to be resolved. What actions were taken after that? The cry for help and distress from various military forces to us, but also on social media, is legitimate. How's the communication going with the staff? Are people with major problems and late payments accompanied individually? For example, do they have a reference address or contact point where they can find solutions to their individual situation in the short term?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic640x.u14	Mr President, Mrs Ponthier, Mr Pillen, 80% of the backlog is currently eliminated in the performance module and the associated premiums. Different communication channels were set up. This includes a weekly online information session, addressed to all Secretary of Defense, and a quarterly communication via the intranet, addressed to all personnel. The individual, registered problems are dealt with through a tool, in which the staff member concerned remains informed about the evolution of the problem. For cases where there would be serious payment problems, the staff member concerned may use a specific e-mail address created for that purpose. This was communicated several times and through multiple channels to all staff members. After negotiations between Defense and Capgemini, more resources were deployed by the company until the end of 2021 to eliminate the backlog. In principle, the most urgent technical shortcomings should be resolved by the end of 2021. Furthermore, from 2022 onwards, more resources will be planned structurally to further improve the performance module. A change to a new software system is not currently considered.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic640x.u15	Madam Secretary, you must forgive me, but your explanation is not really in line with reality. It certainly seems that you have too little contact with the experience on the ground. You say that 80% of the deficit was eliminated. That took about a year; it is about a year since I asked the first questions. It's also been a year since many military rang the alarm. You say that at the moment 80 % was eliminated. Dat is echt too little too late. The military who are contacting us, and I'm sure I'm not the only one who are in need of counsel. They say that the mistakes that were accumulated during that year are currently so inconvenient that they themselves are not able to say what they are actually entitled to and to which they are not. This succession is a real tragedy for the military in question. For many, it is also a financial problem. You spoke of communication. That all sounds nice in theory, but in the field that is not experienced as a good communication. So I'm gonna ask you again. Please make this a spearhead in your communication, but also in your policy. Pay attention to the military pulling the alarm. Make them feel heard. In the short term, please make sure that these allowances and premiums will end up where they belong, especially with the military, who, day after day, are responsible for your safety and ours. It is really inappropriate that this is still happening in a defence device worthy of that name.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic640x.u16	Madam Minister, Mr Ponthier, 80% is, of course, a lot. If 80% of the problems are solved, this means that action is indeed being taken. It is true, however, that the problem is indeed considerable. I'm just a little afraid of this. That 80% happens in waves. I hear from the terrain that it's continuous waves. So at some point there are a lot of problems, at another time the problems are more under control. I have the impression that in recent months the problem has been less addressed and that we are now in a situation where it really is getting out of hand. So that 80% is relative in that sense. So the question is how many problems are specific and how they relate to the solution. Secondly, as far as resources are concerned, I held my heart for a moment when you were talking about additional resources until the end of this year. Fortunately, after that, you said that this will also apply for next year. After all, I do not think this will be resolved in the next two weeks. It is therefore absolutely necessary that this be monitored very closely from within the company. Defence is trying to take on its responsibilities, but it is primarily the company that is contractually bound to take on its responsibilities as a matter of urgency. Finally, I hear you talking about an e-mail address and such more, but I really think that you should grab and guide the people who face major problems individually. I wonder, and that is also the echo I receive from the field of education, whether this individual guidance should not be developed even more firmly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic640x.u17	Madam Minister, last week in plenary, I asked you whether the army itself would carry out an evaluation in the dossier on the award of the substances mouth masks to the population. The Court of Auditors, to which you referred, has indeed already examined that case. I would like to add that the Court of Auditors has only given its opinion on the procedure on paper. For example, the Court of Auditors has not questioned the people of the purchasing service. Nor has the Court of Auditors studied how the NBN standard was changed so that Avrox could run. The Court of Auditors' investigation was a purely technical matter. Madam Secretary, are you convinced that the purchasing service did not make any mistake? I tend to assume that's how you feel, since you didn't order an internal investigation. Do you think it is wise to evaluate the procedure in order to avoid similar errors in the future, or do you believe that no mistakes have been made, which means that no evaluation is necessary? Why were no questions asked about Avrox's reference, which was forged, but about the references of Belgian firms? That's a pertinent question, but it wasn't investigated by the Court of Auditors. Why was the oral mask standard suddenly changed? If you do not wish to initiate an internal investigation, are you effectively convinced that no one was compromised within the Defense Department? Why do you not want to investigate this when you can make it clear once and for all? I'm referring to an internal investigation. Such an investigation could bring peace, and its refusal would only raise more questions for the public. Do you agree with that statement?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic640x.u18	Mr Freilich, I must refer in particular to elements you already know. There is a judicial investigation into the award of that public contract. That investigation and any subsequent procedure may be used to determine whether there is a criminal offence. I will not go into any further details about this investigation, as I told you last week. It is my responsibility to protect the interests of the State, which I have done by making a statement by an injured person and setting myself a bourgeois party. Moreover, this procedure has already been examined repeatedly by the Council of State, preliminary proceedings, by the Committee on Army Purchases and Sales, of which you were a member, and by the Court of Auditors. Contrary to what you claim, the people of the Defence Purchase Service were questioned by the Court of Auditors, which is also reflected in last year's Court of Auditors' motion. I will continue to monitor developments in this case closely. I have already agreed with the Chief of Defence that an inventory is being made of the points raised in this purchase dossier by the Court of Auditors or the Council of State over the last two years and that recommendations are being made. In the case of the masks are only the motion of the Court of Auditors, which we have just discussed, and the decisions of the Council of State to reject the requests for suspension. There is therefore no external report or decision that we can use. I decided that without waiting, it was necessary to evaluate the procedure and, if necessary, adapt it. Instructions to that effect shall be given.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic640x.u19	Thank you, Madam Secretary. As far as the procedure at the Council of State is concerned, I hear from a number of private companies that there are still procedures in place. They are certainly not all already classified. It is good that you have given instructions, but it would have been better for me if an internal analysis had also been made. The question is whether what you're saying is happening is the same as what I'm asking. In any case, I have explained in detail what problems there are. For me, it is particularly important that such mistakes do not repeat themselves in the future. I take note of the fact that there will be an evaluation and I look forward to the next steps of the public prosecutor's office. Hopefully the purchasing service wasn't compromised and we'll get certainty about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic640x.u20	Madam Secretary, during the Tropical Storm training mission, 38 of the 50 soldiers returning from that mission were tested positively for corona. At least that's what we were told. You will undoubtedly confirm or disprove that. Military people are tested when they leave Belgium, so that they do not take the virus abroad, even if it has financial repercussions. Can you explain the testing strategy for foreign military personnel again? Is the information true that 38 out of 50 military personnel are infected? If so, do you think the strategy is optimal or do you consider it necessary to adjust it? Will you, if necessary, take the necessary measures, of course in consultation with the FPS Public Health and possibly the FPS Foreign Affairs, to enable testing both on departure and return of foreign missions?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic640x.u21	Military returning from abroad, like any Belgian returning from abroad, fill in a passer location form and follow the guidelines of the FPS Public Health. The current guidelines of Sciensano for fully vaccinated returning travellers from Africa provide for two PCR tests, one on day 1 of return and one on day 7. The necessary codes are given by SMS after filling in the PLF. If one is fully vaccinated, what is the case for all our soldiers going abroad, one stays in quarantine at home until the result of the first PCR test on day 1 is negative. The message that 38 military from Gabon have been infected is not correct. Not a single infection has been detected since its return from Gabon. However, 34 positive tested and 43 high risk contacts were established prior to departure of the detachment from Belgium. Despite the agreements with Gabon to test everyone on arrival, DOD has also decided to test everyone before departure from Belgium. The number of infections in Belgium was too high. In this way, the risk can already be reduced on the spot. On arrival in Gabon there were only three positives and ten high risk contacts after the tests. They all went into isolation or quarantine locally and were able to join the exercise afterwards. On 13 December there were four positives in the detachment in Gabon and a dozen high-risk contacts that were locally in isolation or quarantine. Defense is looking into how their return can be organized. None of them have any serious symptoms, but given the potential for infection, specific procedures are needed. For the Defense Department, a negative test before departure is a necessary condition to be able to leave for an Ops theatre. The testing is organized in private military circles through the laboratory of the Military Hospital and the results are inserted into the central database of the FPS Public Health. PCR testing is carried out in the civilian environment through the procedure with the PLF, as for any other Belgian returning from abroad.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic640x.u22	Thank you, Madam Minister, for clarifying the situation of the returned military and of the military who are still present on the training mission in Gabon. I'll take a closer look at your figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic640x.u23	Mr. Chair, Madam Minister, during the presentation of your policy brief, you indicated your intention to strengthen the common values of members of the Defence. This is obviously a good thing in view of the events that took place this year. Indeed, it seems that this objective is far from being achieved. After the case of Jürgen Conings, then that of this retired member of the Vlaams Belang who participates in uniform in a violent demonstration, the military calling at the end of democracy on RTBF and the military raided as part of an investigation into hate speech on social networks, we saw, this week, a major calling to guillotine a federal minister on Twitter. This tweet has been deleted in the meantime. Minister, can you tell me if you have been alerted to this death threat? Has this Major been called to order and is he under the supervision of the SGRS? Does this major have a security clearance? What sanctions does a military member who disseminates this kind of threat face? I also had a more general question about screening, but you answered Mrs Jadin and Mrs Vindevoghel at the moment. So I'll read your answers, which will save us time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic640x.u24	Mr. President, Mr. Defossé, the threat was expressed through his personal Twitter account. It is through your parliamentary question that we have been made aware of this tweet. At my request, the case was immediately referred to the line of command and the SGRS. As you must know, I take this kind of intolerable incident very seriously. Since the beginning of my mandate, I have been working to develop a positive and exemplary image of Defence. As soon as I became aware of these unqualified facts and comments, instructions for appropriate follow-up were given to the Defence Staff from the outset. Depending on the concrete elements that the procedure will have to reveal, I will take the necessary steps. Such acts may be punished either by disciplinary measures or by statutory measures. With regard to your question on screening, I refer you to the answers you have just mentioned.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic640x.u25	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. It is clear that members have the right to have political opinions, and that they can, to some extent, express them, even if a duty of reserve is to be respected, and certainly for an officer. But now, the step of too much has been taken. We are beyond opinion. This is a call for violence and murder against a minister. This is unacceptable. It is also proof that the message has not yet percolated everywhere in our troops. I thank you above all for the firm action you have taken, and for grasping the hierarchy and the SGRS. I didn't expect any less from you. I hope that we can resolve this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic640x.u26	Mr President, Minister, we have read about this fact-finding mission that a Belgian delegation of four people left for Ghana from 29 November to 3 December. Under the direction of Colonel Debradere, we visited the Ghanaian army on behalf of the Belgian Defence. The main objective would be to obtain first-hand information on Belgian-Ghanese military cooperation. Can you give more information or any explanation of the concrete content of the discussions there and the information gathered by this Belgian mission in Ghana? Is this, in any way, a concrete preparation for greater military operational commitment in the region? If so, which one? With what objectives?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic640x.u27	Mr President, Mrs Ponthier, at the invitation of the Ghanaian authorities, a three-member delegation of Defence has carried out several short visits to Accra and the nearest region. The purpose of this mission was to obtain information on the organisation of the Ghanaian armed forces in general and on various military schools in order to analyse possible ad hoc military cooperation. Because of its location in the south of the Sahel and in the north of the Gulf of Guinea, Ghana represents an interest for Belgium as part of the comprehensive approach to combating terrorism and the fight against piracy. Ghana is a candidate NATO partner country and expressed the wish to establish bilateral military cooperation with Belgium, by relying on the need to establish partnerships to make Ghana a safe country in the Sahel region and West Africa. The findings of the mission in Ghana have yet to be analysed within the Defence Staff. It is therefore premature at this stage to explain more about possible future cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic640x.u28	Madam Secretary, it is always good to inform us on behalf of Defence about possible bilateral cooperation. As far as the stakes in the Sahel are concerned, you know our position. However, as far as piracy is concerned, there may be something to be gained. If Ghana is a candidate partner of NATO, we must certainly keep the information channels open. In your opinion, it is too early to analyse or evaluate the findings. So I think I should come back to that next year to see what has actually come out of the bus or where we can serve our interests.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic640x.u29	Mr President, Minister, several questions on investment dossiers are now being raised. This first question is about the Vertical Launch System (VLS) on the new frigates. The work on frigates takes place in the binational working group Belgium-Netherlands. Madam Minister, following on from earlier questions I asked on this subject, I would have liked an update of the number of VLS systems on the future Belgian frigates. How will that relate to the Dutch situation on those two frigates? In specialised media, the Netherlands, which is in charge of this project, is talking to an Israeli company. What is Belgium's position in the binational working group on the number of rockets per launch cell? When it comes to one or four per cell, you will understand as well as I do that this can make a big difference, especially given the already too limited number of VLS systems on the new frigates.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic640x.u30	Mr President, Mr Pillen, on board the future Anti-Submarine Warefare Frigates there is room for the integration of two vertical launch systems. Belgium has decided to order two of the four VLS, so that either they can be placed on one frigate or distributed over the two frigates. The two unordered VLS are therefore considered a provision for. Each VLS consists of eight cells, with each VLS being able to use the maximum filling rate according to the type of mission. As a result, the self-defense capacity of the new frigates will be higher than that of the current M-frigates and meet NATO targets.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic640x.u31	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. I was given a small heart attack when you spoke of two systems, because I understood that there were eight. Since the two systems each consist of eight cells, they are still 16 cells together, which may be more than today, but which is similar to an average Russian corvet. I keep finding that problematic. If I am not mistaken, the Dutch have forty VLS systems on De Zeven Provinciënkiel, so I am curious how the Dutch will do that. I'll follow up on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic640x.u32	In that you have an ally to me, Mr Pillen.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic640x.u33	The Belgian Defence Clothing System of BDCS is a very important programme. It is a programme that will take a huge bite out of our defense budget in the coming years. At the same time, it is a relatively small-scale programme. What's the status? How far along is the procedure? What companies are currently in the running to get this huge contract for the next few years, a very long term? When do you expect the contract to be concluded? For what period will that be?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic640x.u34	The dialogue phase was launched on 9 May 2021. It was formally closed on 8 November last. The dialogue with the three selected consortia has enabled a specifications to be drawn up and transferred on 17 November. The names of those consortia and companies cannot be released in view of the ongoing procedure. The submission of tenders is scheduled for 10 January, after which an evaluation of the tenders will take place, with an expected award in the first trimester of 2022. This contract provides for a minimum duration of 15 years and a maximum of 20 years.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic640x.u35	Madam Secretary, thank you for the clear timeline. The next few months will be crucial in that file. I'd heard the time limit would be 15 to 20 years. Isn't that too long? Of course, it is important to have a loyal partner in the areas of clothing, textiles and the like, but we have to be careful with framework contracts with such maturity. We must not commit ourselves to innovation and new developments in clothing. This has become a particularly technological sector in recent decades. However, I understand that we are too late to intervene in the term. We will have to follow this very closely in the years to come.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic640x.u36	Madam Minister, I have just said that it would only be about investments, but the story of the commemorations is also one of my dadas in this committee. In that context, last week the annoyance and consternation was great, as a result of the images of a homeless or at least someone who felt it necessary to warm up his food above the eternal flame for the Congress column at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier. These are, of course, very embarrassing and painful images for the memorial and also for that man. It'll just happen to you that this is the last way out of getting hot food. That, of course, is also a tragedy. So it's a double drama. Madam Secretary, I understand you cannot do the enforcement yourself. We cannot put permanent surveillance there either, which depends on your answer. Have certain possibilities already been explored or researched to prevent such situations from happening? Have you or Defense taken any action on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic640x.u37	Mr Francken has the floor, in his homework outfit.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic640x.u38	Mr President, I do not have a suit at home, but I take your tip into consideration that I will do so in the future for the Committee on Defence. Madam Secretary, I was forwarded the information relating to this incident by a retired military officer from Leuven, who is closely monitoring the Defense Department. He asked me if this is still normal. I understand that there has been contact with the police and that he has really tried to get the man out of there, but he came back again and again. You should know there's a homeless shelter from Samusocial facing the Congress column, on the corner of the Little Ring. People are often seen waiting outside on the Koningsstraat. It's close to our party secretariat, so that's why I know it so well. It has often been suggested to put that man to sleep there, but he doesn't go into that. For the sake of clarity, I do not want to say anything about homeless people or lack of respect for people who do not have shelter. I think it is important to underline this. I asked if this is still normal. A number of people, especially on the left, responded to this question as to whether it is still normal that there are homeless people in Brussels who are not being taken care of. I understand that thousands of homeless people are being received every day, but the problem of homeless people in the Brussels streets has increased enormously in recent years. You received a letter on this matter from the Brussels Government. A letter from the federal government was also sent back, but that is another debate. I think I can say that there must be respect for such a monument. I happened to be at the Arlington Cemetery in Washington DC last week and saw how people deal with the monument for the Unknown Soldier. The difference from here can't be greater. That monument is greeted several times a day. It is in itself a tourist attraction where the war is commemorated, a bit like our Last Post in Ypres. A lot of people go there to grieve and commemorate the American soldiers who sacrificed their lives for the free West. My questions are the same as those of Mr Pillen. Can you clarify that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic640x.u39	In recent months, on the site of the Congress Square, people were indeed occasionally caught dishonoring the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier and/or the eternal flame. Presumably these are homeless people who have no awareness of the symbolic and emotional value of this site. The Unknown Soldier symbolizes all the victims of both world wars and the Belgians who have been killed since 1945 in the service of peace. The security of this site is not a responsibility of the Defense Department, but of the local police. I have therefore sent a letter to the Minister of the Interior asking for the necessary measures to be taken to ensure the security of the site.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic640x.u40	Madam Secretary, you have taken the right steps. It is important not to accept such things, however sad they may be, in such symbolic places, which tell a story and which for many people are still a symbol of remembrance. You have made the right choice by addressing the Minister for the Interior and ensuring that the relevant local police pay due attention to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic640x.u41	Madam Minister, it is good that you have sent a letter, but I fear that it will not be resolved. The Brussels police area is heavily overloaded and it is not really a core task. We will continue to face that problem. The homeless problem has never been this big. I understand there are 3,000 homeless people a day being taken care of during this period. I never experienced that as Secretary of State, then there was capacity for 1,200 homeless. The number of homeless people has tripled in three to four years, so the problem will remain. People see homeless people in the doorways. When people are driving around in Brussels or walking around, that is really striking. This is the result of the terrible policy of the city of Brussels. There's tolerance. However, I do not share that view at all, and I will certainly discuss it with Mr Close. I hope it's possible to gain more respect for our capital. It's really going wrong. A letter isn't enough. I hope you will address the Minister of the Interior in the Council of Ministers and bring the problem to her attention. Why, for example, can we not agree with the veteran effect on what is also possible to keep the monument in honour? Local police sometimes drive around, but they already have so much work to do that we will not solve the problem. We will continue to be confronted with this in the coming weeks and months. In De Telegraaf, the largest newspaper in the Netherlands, an article has been published on how we deal with our war victims and the sacrifices made by these soldiers in the capital of Europe and NATO. It would be a shame if such a message appeared in The Guardian of The New York Times. I hope you will take more initiative and at least address the Minister for the Interior. I will also immediately put a question to the Minister of the Interior. I'm sure we'll follow up on the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic640x.u42	Madam Minister, I have read that the Belgian genius will receive 4 ACEVs to only partially replace the six pioneer tanks. ACEV stands for Armored Combat Engineer Vehicles, an impossible abbreviation like so many in the Defense Department; sometimes people don't know what they stand for anymore. Why did the choice fall on that type of device? Why was it chosen to replace four of the six tanks? Does the Belgian Defense Department have any experience with these devices? I saw that, among other things, Germany has already used them in surgical theatres where Belgians were present. For what amount was the contract concluded? Finally, where will the four aircraft be stationed?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic640x.u43	Madam Minister, I have tabled similar questions on the subject. I would therefore like to refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic640x.u44	The procedure for purchasing the armored vehicle for the combat genius was launched in mid 2020 and was submitted to the Army Purchases Committee. The tender was awarded in December 2020 to the company JCB from Oudsbergen for a sum of 4.8 million euros for four vehicles, documentation, training of operators and mechanics. The Military Engineering of the Motorized Brigade must be able to support the brigade with four company geniuses. Each company of genius has an armored vehicle for combat genius to carry out her assignments. The missions concern support for the mobility, counter-mobility and survival of the troops and general genius support. Defense doesn't have any operational experience with the thugs yet. Two of the four armored vehicles for combat genius will be stationed in Amay and the other two in Castle. The vehicles can indeed be used in foreign conflict zones and also in Belgium, when the situation so requires. It is the essence itself of a dual capacity. The combat support and the combat service support must indeed have dual means to allow the combat units to carry out their mission in conflict zones and to assist our population in domestic crises. In the context of the update of the strategic vision, consideration is therefore being given to strengthening dual capacity.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic640x.u45	Madam Secretary, thank you for your enlightening answer. I support 100 % of your last sentence that we need to strengthen that capacity. Apparently, you're investigating that. Four planes, two in the north and two in the south, that is of course very limited. If vehicles are to be used both for operations abroad and for helping the nation, think of recent crises here where they could be used, then four vehicles are very limited, all the more so when considering the maintenance cycle of military vehicles. You certainly have my support for increasing the number.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic640x.u46	Madam Secretary, thank you for your explanation. I assume that the file in the Committee on Army Purchases has passed without comment. I certainly don't remember a meeting. I suspect that no initiative has been taken, either by you or by any of the Members of this House, to place the issue on the agenda. That's why the file may have escaped my attention. Thank you for the specific explanation. I agree with Mr Pillen's remarks. I'm glad they're investing in Castle. I would like to add that the city of Sint-Niklaas has a parish bond with the Elfth Genie. If there is investment in Castle, we are certainly in favour of it. I also hope that today's questions and others underline the acute need for a global picture of the actualisation of the Strategic Vision. After all, we do not have a good idea of the game in which we are playing, what is in purchase and what can still be bought. I certainly look forward to the further discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic640x.u47	Through specialized accounts on Twitter we were told that Belgium and France have concluded an agreement on the development of the VBAE (véhicule blindé à l'engagement). The DG of the French DGA made certain statements on this subject, which were then picked up. Can you confirm that? What does the aircraft mean for the Belgian Defense Department? What vision does it fit in? What is the timeline for development? What is the added value for the Belgian industry? The decision to cooperate with the French has been taken and seems irreversible. That's not a problem. However, I am still a little hungry about the industrial return for our country. We must be very vigilant about future projects.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic640x.u48	I would like to join with Mr Pillen's questions. The French general to which Mr Pillen referred stated in the French Assembly on CaMo and the VBAE that, while the project began with the export of French equipment, it now led to real cooperation, as they received the consent of the Belgians to jointly start the development of the future armored vehicle. Can you confirm that there have already been talks with the French about common development and decline? If so, how did our country commit to the project? Given the recent purchase of Oshkosh, the Griffons and the Jaguars for the Land Component, where do you see additional VBAEs fit into the Defence Development Plan? Are they intended for ISTAR in the longer term or to partially replace the Pandur? Should we perhaps see a parallel here with what happened in connection with CAESAR, about which a top defense officer spoke first? The rumours about the negotiations were first minimized to be confirmed. What existing or future products in the Scorpion program wants to buy our country? Was the acquisition of some Leclercs ever considered?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic640x.u49	Belgium replied to a written question from the French Minister of Defence to examine the Belgian participation and cooperation in the preconception phase of the VBAE project (véhicule blindé d'aide à l'engagement). There is therefore an informal commitment through a memorandum of understanding or other cooperation agreement. The preconception phase should be completed by the end of 2023 and should be the start of the actual development phase of the VBAE, the production and delivery of which could take place in the course of 2027. The need for a command and liaison vehicle (CLV) of type VBAE was identified in the studies for the reform of the motorized land force and is aligned with a similar need of our French strategic partner for the motorized land force, the CaMo partnership. The possible acquisition of the VBAEs will therefore be included in the updated strategic vision. The VBAE can play a scouting role, including as accompanying vehicle of the Jaguar, but is not intended to replace the Pandur. The participation of Belgian industry could be stimulated by the participation of French and Belgian industrial partners in the FAMOUS consortium (European Future Highly Mobile Augmented Armored Systems), which, through the European Defence Industrial Development Programme 2020, investigates and develops the building blocks for the VBAE. At the request of the Belgian industry, information sessions were already held on the VBAE project. The purchase of existing or future products in the Scorpion programme will be part of the updated strategic vision and the updated military programme law.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic640x.u50	Madam Secretary, thank you for the nuance and framework of the story. I refer to Mr Buysrogge's reply on ACEV. I have only been a Member of Parliament for 15 months, so it may have been before my time, but I had not noticed that file in the Committee on Army Procurement either. I do not think we are the least active members of that committee. The fact that we have not noticed, leads me to suspect that it was not discussed for a undoubtedly technical or procedural reason. I have put forward a number of questions about vehicles, because I am following French Twitter accounts and learned about certain agreements made between Belgium and France and were subsequently picked up following a hearing in the French Parliament. That does not seem to me to be the most serious way to carry out our work. I will urge the chairman of the Committee on Army Purchases to ensure that there is no fire in January or February; so that does not need to be very soon to organise a debriefing behind closed doors on all ongoing procedures. You rightly say about BDCS that you cannot name the companies involved in a public meeting. I fully understand that. I know which companies are in the running, but I think it would be useful to list all these things behind closed doors so that we can do our job properly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic640x.u51	Mr Pillen, as always, you are a courteous man and you are politely expressing yourself. If you put your cards completely on the table, you could be a lot sharper. I'm trying to be polite, too. Fortunately, I am a loyal reader of the reports of the Assembly of the National Assembly, the French Parliament, because otherwise I would not have known. I am deeply disturbed that we should get our information, which you no longer deny, because you say there is an informal agreement, in this way. I would have expected more openness from the government, which is always high on transparency and Parliament's involvement. There is an informal agreement with the French Government. There are contacts with industry. However, Parliament was not informed of this. I don't care if it bothers me.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic640x.u52	Mr President, again on Twitter.............................................................................................................. I had to look that up. Madam Secretary, can you confirm this? How many vehicles are we talking about? About what budget? What orders will these vehicles carry out?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic640x.u53	Four new heavy vehicles were ordered from the Spanish company UROVESA for an amount of 1,337.104.55 euros. The vehicles replace the existing heritage dating from 1989 to 2001. They will be used for the identification, neutralization, evacuation and destruction of non-exploded, heavy explosives, with a mass heavier than two tons. The destruction can happen on site if necessary. In this case, a well will be dug with the help of the crane to bury the ammunition together with an explosive charge and then detonate it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic640x.u54	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Again, this is a complete and good answer. Thank you for your clarification. Mr President, I am indeed courteous. Thank you for the compliment. I'm not necessarily sharp, but I think we can deal with this in a more serious way, better than a few days in advance. That is also not nice for the minister's cabinet and for the people in the Defense Department who have to quickly write an answer because there is a question session. This kind of thing can perfectly be discussed behind closed doors for me. Transparency is irrelevant here. It provides financial and operational data and talks about cooperation with our French partners, as with previous questions. It would be better for everyone to do this in a different way.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic640x.u55	Mr President, Minister, the first draft of the EU strategic compass was leaked on 9 November 2021. In the meantime, the Defence Ministers have already considered it. Later this week, European leaders will make further recommendations for adoption in March 2022 under the French Presidency. The document contains only 28 pages to guide the European Union's security and defence policy over the next five to ten years, with priorities for crisis management, resilience, capacity development and partnerships. In addition to regional threats, Russia and China are explicitly mentioned. There is an eye for new operational shows such as cyberspace and space and the emphasis is on deepening cooperation with NATO. However, it also contains controversial elements, such as the European intervention force and the creation of headquarters and White Papers. Madam Secretary, that is why I have the following questions for you. What is the government's appreciation of the first version of the strategic compass? What are the good and the less good elements? What recommendations will it make as the project goes into the last straight line? Remarkable is that many deadlines are not, as expected, placed on ten years, but have as target date 2025, so already in three years. Madam Secretary, do you think that date is realistic? Do you take into account that many reforms fall within your deadline and will require revisions? In order to avoid such slow decision-making processes, the concept proposes more flexible decision-making arrangements and a comprehensive scope of common costs in order to achieve rapid employability. Madam Minister, do you think that, since the deployment of the EU Rapid Deployment Capacity by 2025 is no longer far away, a deal on the unanimity rule and funding is essential for the deployment of the strategic compass or will you join in the idea launched to specify by 2023 how Article 44 will be effectively operationalised? Finally, in addition to the development of the strategic compass, the revision of NATO's strategic concept is under way. A number of Member States would therefore insist on guarantees of compatibility before adopting the strategic compass when adopting a new EU-NATO Joint Declaration. Does our government agree to that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic640x.u56	Mr President, the first draft version of the strategic compass was delivered to the Member States on 9 November and jointly presented and discussed by the Foreign and Defence Ministers at the Council meeting on 15 November. The overall impression of the strategic compass is positive. It correctly outlines the rapidly evolving geostrategic context and the overall challenges facing the EU and its Member States. It is clear that the EU's role as a security actor is becoming more important and that greater European cooperation and greater commitment from Member States are needed to meet this challenge. This requires a broad and concrete approach that is translated into the strategic compass. Belgium will ensure that the overall level of ambition is maintained in the following iterations while at the same time ensuring that its accents are highlighted in the various areas of operational engagement, capacity development, increased resilience and structural cooperation with partners. One of the objectives of the strategic compass is that it becomes a clear political strategic policy document providing concrete guidance in the various areas and initiatives. The envisaged time periods should be realistic and ambitious and are currently further discussed by national specialists. In the following iterations of the strategic compass, changes can and will therefore be made, inter alia, to the planned time periods. Belgium is in favour of a broad interpretation of the scope of Article 44 of the European Treaty in order to create a generally attractive framework. However, it is also clear that the directives in that article must be respected, including the need for a unanimous Council decision to launch an EU mission. The principle of increasing common costs is generally considered to be a possible support factor to make participation in EU contracts more attractive to Member States. However, there is still no consensus on the practical implementation of this principle. That will therefore have to be discussed further. Belgium also believes that a third joint declaration on closer cooperation between the EU and NATO should be drawn up as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic640x.u57	Madam Minister, in my view it is important that compatibility with NATO's strategic concept is sound. Good coordination is important, otherwise it will be a soup, and the debate will be difficult enough. Our position is that it is not obvious to give up unanimity. The question is also how this will then be operational in order to have that force deployed. So I'm a little critical of that. I also published a book on NATO, together with Peter Buysrogge and Hendrik Bogaert. We are not on the same page, by the way, because Hendrik Bogaert is more on your line, Madam Secretary. Along with Peter Buysrogge, I'm a little more critical, which you'll notice. I am therefore curious about the practical operation. I'm sure I'm willing to give it a chance, but the problem isn't there, but I don't know if it's gonna work. Until now, it has never worked. Moreover, I believe that the European Union has less cohesion than it did ten years ago, and I believe that the European Union is now less well off. The British are out, so that's already less trouble, as is sometimes said, but I am very sorry, because the balance between France, Germany and Great Britain seemed crucial to the survival of the Union. The idea that there is now, without the British, more consensus, I do not feel at all. I also refer, for example, to the way in which the Polish Prime Minister has offended the German Government, and vice versa. I am very concerned about that. It will not depend on Belgium, we are just a small country. We'll see. In any case, we will be able to discuss it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic640x.u58	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you, in consultation with the Minister, that we will be able to continue our work, so that I have the ambition to be able to deal with all the questions raised.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic640x.u59	Madam Minister, you have just heard that I am a loyal reader of the reports of the French Assembly Nationale. I also read the Greek media quite frequently. I read that a declaration of intent was signed on 27 October between Greece and the Netherlands on the possible transfer of two modernised M-frigates and six mine hunters to the Hellenic Navy. In the same Greek media reference was made to a similar deal with the Belgian Navy, as it would be interesting for Athens to complete the fleet with more or less the same type of ships. Hence my questions. First of all, can you confirm that the Greeks are interested in taking over our ships? Is there a similar letter or intent in formatting? Secondly, a delegation from the Greek Navy visited Den Helder and inspected the Dutch frigate Van Speijk. Were our ships inspected, too? Thirdly, what would the chalk lines be for an agreement with Greece? What ships, what amounts and what additional requirements are they? Fourthly, what is the deadline for a possible transfer? Fifth, and finally, if it is not Greece, what country could our ships be worn out on the second hand market at the time they are taken out of service? What is a realistic slope in this respect? How do you see Parliament's involvement in this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic640x.u60	Mr Buysrogge, Greece has shown an informal interest in purchasing the frigates. Therefore, no letter or intent was made up. During the visit in Den Helder, on 10 and 11 May 2021, the Greek delegation did indeed visit the Dutch frigate, as well as the Belgian frigate, the Louise-Marie, which was under maintenance there. The chalk lines for a sale to Greece or another candidate buyer still have to be determined. The intention is to sell these ships ash is where. The date of sale will be determined depending on the correct delivery date of the new ships to avoid a capacity gap. The ships are included in the sales catalogue from state to state, publicity to other nations. So other nations can also show their interest. Disruption only applies if no buyer can be found.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic640x.u61	Madam Minister, it is quite annoying that we have to hear such matters through the Greek media, so they have even inspected our ship to see if they can be interested. I understand that the chalk lines are not yet fully fixed and that the exact date cannot yet be communicated. You were talking about that catalog, where the ships were supposed to be included. Reference has just been made to the Army Procurement and Sales Committee. I would like to remind you that, by its then chairman, I happened to have extended the powers of that committee to military purchases and sales. Just as Mr Pillen has just asked for a briefing on the various purchase files, I suggest that we also get an exact state of play in the same committee on the sales files that are in the pipeline, and also, specifically, an explanation on the operation of that catalogue. I imagine 3 Suisses and so on. That's probably my fantasy, but I think it's important to know exactly how that works and that we're getting some information about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic640x.u62	Mr President, I agree. This can be arranged in committee. Take the initiative and we'll provide all the elements.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic640x.u63	Perfect! I will pass that on to the current chairman of the Army Procurement and Sales Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic640x.u64	Madam Minister, earlier this month Luxembourg gave its army the green light to purchase new command, liaison and reconnaissance vehicles equipped with Scorpion subsystems to improve interoperability with the Belgian and French military. Last summer it was announced that Luxembourg would also replace its Dingos and Hummers with more Scorpion-friendly vehicles. In view of the creation of a binational battalion by the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg and that country and improved cooperation in the field of exploration, it is not unthinkable that Luxembourg should soon become the third junior partner in the French Scorpion programme. Madam Minister, what do you think of Luxembourg's recent decisions to modernise its vehicle fleet for at least a basic application of the Scorpion programme? What coordination has taken place with our country and possibly with France? Can you confirm that there are broader plans for the full integration of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg into the existing project CaMo? Was this option included in the recent plans for the creation of a binational battalion? Can you give a final update of the cooperation with the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg on the establishment of this battalion? What's been discussed? What could possibly have been done? What are the most recent projections for the operationalisation of this unit?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic640x.u65	Luxembourg makes its own decisions as a sovereign country, including with regard to the modernisation of the vehicle fleet and its equipment with Scorpion subsystems. Greater interoperability between the three countries should be seen as an added value and progress. This can only be beneficial for joint participation in operations. There was no coordination with France or Belgium for the new Luxembourg CLRV programme, with 80 vehicles being acquired. Today there are also no broader plans by Belgium and Luxembourg for full integration into the existing project CaMo. On 31 August 2021, I signed a declaration of intent with my Luxembourg colleague to establish a binational reconnaissance battalion by 2028. In order to implement this, a bilateral working group will be set up by the Defence Staff of both countries to draw up concrete plans. The mandate of this working group is currently before the Chief of Defence for approval.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic640x.u66	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic640x.u67	Madam Minister, you have just heard that I am a loyal reader of the reports of the French Assembly and the Greek media. I can also tell you that I am also a loyal follower of the Romanian media. It announced that Romania would purchase 32 second-hand F-16 fighters from Norway, a deal that the Norwegians would get for a 40-year-old fleet of around 454 million euros now that they switch to the F-35. Romania states that the purchase will allow it to delete its latest MIG-21s and that the airframes can serve for more than a decade. It is striking that it was also reported in the Romanian media that the country would have negotiated with other NATO countries, including our Defence, but that no agreement could be found. Hence my questions, Madam Secretary. Firstly, can you confirm that Romania has shown interest in taking over some of our F-16s? If so, why could no agreement be found? Secondly, was Defense contacted by other users for the acquisition of devices or parts now that the transition to F-35 is near? Finally, will the Defense still try to wear out the last assets of its fleet on the second-hand market? Is a similar deal with Sabena Aerospace and Blue Aerospace in the making, as for the C-130, or will all devices and components be fully written off until their last use?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic640x.u68	Mr President, I do not know the Romanian media, but I do have the same information as you do with those Norwegian F-16s. Madam Secretary, this case is similar to the situation in our country. What is the status of our F-16s? Are there any negotiations on this with other countries? I'm assuming that when the F-35 arrives, we're not gonna use those F-16s anymore. A second element of my question concerns the F-35 itself. I have heard this again from the Swiss media. Switzerland ordered a number of F-35s at the beginning of this year. Between the announcement in February and November, i.e. in less than a year, an increase in prices of no less than 20% has been communicated. The cause was inflation forecasts up to 2031 and expected payments. How is that covered in our order? To what extent are we sensitive to such matters?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic640x.u69	Mr President, Mr Verduyckt, Belgium does not currently have any F-16s on offer for sale. Taking into account a possible attraction in the coming years, the entire F-16 fleet is needed to meet operational requirements up to initial operational capability F-35. The defence staff received an official question from Romania in 2016, but in view of the operational requirements, the response was negative. Jordan has recently contacted the Belgian Defence Department with a request for acquisition of parts. The operational life of our F-16s is limited to 8,000 flight hours per aircraft. A first aircraft will reach its limit of 8,000 hours by 2023. 12 aircraft that have already reached the cape of 7,000 hours, follow shortly thereafter. The aircraft that will still be in service at the end of the F-16 operations will have no or very little flight potential. This means that the Belgian F-16s are not interesting for any buyers. A limited residual value can be obtained in the long term from the sale of parts. Mr Verduyckt, at the moment, there is no evidence of any increase in the purchase budget for the Belgian F-35. Nor will the impact of COVID-19 on the production of the F-35 lead to an increase in prices on the basis of the latest data.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic640x.u70	Madam Secretary, thank you very much. If I have interpreted your explanation correctly, there is currently a question from Jordan to buy spare parts, which has not yet been answered. At least I didn't hear you say that. It was high time to replace the F-16 program, taking into account the maximum number of flight hours. We knew that, hence the need for the replacement program with the F-35. We can all understand that the devices have a limited residual value. I propose that the explanatory statement in the Committee on Army Purchases and Sales on frigates or whatever should also explain this dossier, without having to read it in a catalogue of 3 Suisses.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic640x.u71	Madam Secretary, your answer was quite clear. Our F-16s may not have enough flying potential left to be interesting to be sold as a complete aircraft. They'll probably be sold in parts sooner. We never disputed the need to replace it. The debate on the F-35 has been held in the past. The F-35 is about a very large budget. Every change in that budget has an enormous budgetary impact. It's important that we follow that up. It is good to hear that no changes can be expected in the short term. I'm gonna keep following that with a lot of interest.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic640x.u72	Mr President, I will ask one final question. Madam Minister, the construction of Russian troops on the Ukrainian border and the growing number of warnings for a new invasion mean that the issue of the eastern border is once again at the top of all European and NATO agendas. Allies stress that a possible Russian attack on Ukraine would provoke a swift and meaningful reaction in the political and economic field. However, genuine military assistance from NATO countries is only bilateral and rather limited in nature. Madam Secretary, that is why I have the following questions for you. Firstly, the latest NATO meeting discussed NATO's support for Ukraine through information sharing, maritime support and joint exercises and training. The European Union is also still considering developing a training mission in the country. Madam Secretary, what is your position on this matter? Did you order the Defense Staff to investigate the possibilities for participation? Secondly, Turkey, Lithuania, Canada, the United Kingdom and the United States already provided military support to Ukraine. These cooperations take place bilaterally rather than in consultation. Was our country also approached bilaterally by Ukraine for support? If so, what questions did we receive? What was our answer? Thirdly and finally, an escalation around Ukraine may also mean increased tensions on other parts of the eastern border, in particular in the Baltic States, where our country participates in air-policing missions and prepares for enhanced forward presence. Does the crisis in Ukraine affect our development here in any way? Do you consider a reinforcement or higher alertness necessary?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic640x.u73	The possibilities of supporting Ukraine are currently being developed within NATO. Therefore, as part of its obligations as a solidarity ally, Belgium will examine the various options for possible participation in a NATO initiative. So far, Ukraine has not asked the Belgian Defence for military support on the basis of bilateral cooperation. The potential impact of the Ukraine crisis on NATO developments in the Baltic States and Poland is clear. The situation is therefore closely monitored by NATO. There is an increased alertness within the alliance and nations. Escalation, however, should be avoided. The opportunities for dialogue with Russia must be kept open. Belgium supports this policy approach.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic640x.u74	Madam Minister, there is no bilateral contact because it was not requested, but what is possible is already being considered within NATO. In any case, there is military activity on the ground, which will certainly have already been covered this morning in the Committee on the Monitoring of Foreign Shipments, which I regret I was unable to attend, but I am sure that the committee chairman, among others, has paid attention to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic640x.u75	Mr President, I cannot remain here. My oral question on Takuba will be tabled next week in connection with the discussion of the budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic640x.u76	Question 55023423C by Mr Francken will be deleted because it will be discussed in plenary next week. Question 55023432C by Mr Francken has been postponed. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of this committee meeting. Normally, this is also the last committee meeting of this calendar year. I would like to thank you all for the valuable discussions we have had over the past year. I look forward to next year, in which the Minister will undoubtedly please us with all her plans, such as the updating of the strategic vision, the military programme law and staff planning. So there's a lot of work on the shelf. I think it is a good thing that we should all do so as far as possible, with a view to a well-functioning Defence, which has modern equipment and good staff. I'm looking forward to that.
