ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u1	Will the degressivity of unemployment benefits, such as the other support measures, be further extended until 31 March 2021? What about the calculation of the duration of the benefits?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u2	Madam Chair, I will try to be so brief in my answers while trying to bring as many elements as possible to the questions of ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. First of all, I would like to thank them for their question on this important subject and remind them that, in their agreement of 11 September 2020, the social partners called for the extension of measures concerning the non-degressivity of unemployment benefits and integration allowances until 31 December 2020. We have already had an opportunity to discuss it in this committee. Together with the government, we have implemented this request by referring the question to the social partners whether the measure should be extended beyond 31 December 2020. Unfortunately, in the management committee of the ONEM, the social partners were unable to deliver a unanimous opinion. It was essential for me to reassure the workers who lost their jobs and to assure them that their benefits will not be degressive during this period. The government therefore decided to extend the measure until February 21, 2021. The text is currently being published in the Moniteur belge. On the question of whether to go beyond that date, we should be aware that Parliament is assessing the socio-economic situation closely and is discussing a whole series of additional support measures, extension of measures and, in particular, the measures adopted on 6 November, including the extension of the freeze on the degression of unemployment benefits and integration allowances. You'll understand, it's an important step. It is therefore currently the subject of discussion within the government. We should come back to you in the next few days with a decision on a package of support measures, whether they be new or taken in extension of the decisions of November 6.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u3	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It can bring some comfort to the people who are in that situation. The number of temporary unemployed has been reduced but there are still temporary unemployed. I also see the restructuring wave that is coming towards us. So now is not the ideal time for the unemployed to look for work. It's gonna be a tough case for them anyway. As I have said, in principle I do not know if the stick behind the door is always the best motivator. There's definitely others. However, many of these other pathways towards work are still at the moment. So people who are already vulnerable cannot really fall back on the guidance they need to get to work. In this sense, I am pleased that the freeze on degressivity has already been extended until February. However, I would urge that attention be paid to this as long as this situation persists, so that people who are unemployed and who are already struggling are not pushed further into poverty, which would cause them even more stress than is currently the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u4	Minister, thank you for your answers. However, I would like to make it clear that we are in a particularly difficult time as regards the possibility of finding a job for workers who are unemployed. There were already many workers in temporary unemployment and, unfortunately, dismissal announcements. It must therefore be understood that, for long-term unemployed people, the period is not conducive to finding a job. In my view, it would be normal to extend the measure again, at least until 31 March, to take account of the evolution of the pandemic and the possible reopening of certain sectors in the light of this development. I really insist, Mr Minister, that the government, when taking measures, take into account the particular situation of those people who are on incomes close to precariousness and that it is important, therefore, not to apply the degression measures and to maintain the freeze on them at least until 31 March.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u5	Minister, thank you for this very exciting response to the freeze of degression you are announcing. You do not mention any dates, but you indicate that you will return to us in a few days. We will pay attention to it, because it is very important. Without repeating what my colleagues have said, I would stress the importance that these people, who were at risk of insecurity, do not turn into poverty. It is part of the contract to seek employment. Now, as you have pointed out yourself, the difficulty is there now, the economic crisis is there, the covid crisis is there. Degression no longer has its meaning in a period like this, particularly with what we have on the ground - in you too, I assume - as to the difficulty of being defended in cases of disputes over possible sanctions. I look forward to receiving further information on this support, which should be extended for those currently unemployed and for whom a system of degression should not be returned.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u6	Madam President, Minister, I am pleased that there has been no unanimous agreement at the level of the social partners and that the government will take the right decision, rather the right one, to extend the freeze on degression. I will not repeat what my colleagues have already said. On the question of precariousness, I would simply add that we have no interest in ensuring that all these people, all those workers who today do not have jobs, are in precariousness. We have tabled a bill to raise social benefits above the poverty line to avoid the myth that unemployed people are not in precarious situations. From a financial point of view, it is already very complicated for these people. Nor do these unemployed workers have prospects because they live in the same world as us. They were already seeing the economic crisis before the covid crisis. This crisis only increases this lack of prospects and creates a great deal of psychological problems. I would particularly like to highlight the delicate situation of young people. Of course, we will follow very carefully the decisions that will be taken in this regard. I would also like to return to the substance of the problem. We want to have a reflection because the assessment we make of this degression is not good. It is not with such decisions that we encourage people who, on the other hand, do not need to be so encouraged. Above all, jobs must be created. This is not always their individual responsibility. Minister, we will not fail to follow your decisions closely and will return to you if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u7	Minister, I would like to make a non-important comment. The suspension of the degressivity of unemployment benefits in the first lockdown was indeed perfectly justified. In those first weeks, about everyone was locked up and the whole economy was about flat, so it was almost impossible for the unemployed to find a new job. In the meantime, things have already happened. Today there is no such strict lockdown. Colleagues say that it is not the ideal time to look for work, but I would like to contradict that: there are still a lot of vacancies available today. It is more than high time to have that debate and look for ways to fill those vacancies today. We cannot wait for everything to be peis and peace again to find the activation important again. We can't just stop it. In the first lockdown that was perfectly justified, but the months that followed are a completely different story and it still is today. There are a lot of open vacancies, so I really urge you to start looking very consciously and specifically for ways to fill the open vacancies. The debate on the degressivity of unemployment benefits must also be conducted in full transparency and openness. In a number of cases, therefore, it is a little too easy for me to argue in favour of extending the suspension of the degressivity of unemployment benefits. There are always worthwhile things to look at, but overall, there are still a lot of open vacancies today. They're still recruiting today. There are employers and job seekers who find ways to get to work. I believe that we need to redouble our efforts, much more than has been the case in recent months. We really cannot compare the situation today with the first weeks of the first lockdown.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u8	Madam President, I wish to protest against the previous intervention, which assumes that the end of the second phase of deconfinement, of which we are still a long way off, could allow several jobseekers to respond to available job offers. However, it should be noted that their criteria do not necessarily correspond to the possibilities of applicants. In the present situation, which consists in part of temporary unemployment and in the face of sectoral uncertainties affecting low-skilled people, it would be quite abnormal to push them further into precariousness, while measures are being taken to support people in difficulty, but with other statuses or working in other sectors. I plead that we wait at least until 31 March, that is, when vaccination will give us a clearer view of the pandemic, to see if it is possible to return to a more normal situation. I must recall that the degression measure was based on a logic introduced by the MR-N-VA government – a provision that we were never able to clearly measure the return effects. For this reason, I ask you for a little humanity towards those people who are suffering at the moment and therefore to refrain from punishing them more harshly, at the cost of losing their income.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u9	Minister, I agree with the freeze on degressivity, but I think we should also work on the relay once the various sectors are restarted. Nor should we forget that we have set ourselves a high ambition in the coalition agreement by saying that we want to grow to an activity rate of 80%. I therefore agree with the current freeze on degressivity, but we need to think about the future, as I have already said a few times. Activation is very important and there has to be a plan for that. We must start economic revival as soon as possible. In this way, I believe that we should also pursue our ambitions in the field of employment.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u10	Mr Minister, I would like to join you briefly. Of course, having a job is very important. No one else wants a long period of unemployment. That must be terrible. The walls are coming at you. When he or she can get to work, it is not only good for his or her income, but also for self-confidence. However, I would like to stress once again that people affected by the degressivity are sometimes people in precarious situations who need framing and guidance, just to find work. Just those routes are still at a standstill due to the corona crisis. So it is all too easy to push them further down the well now, while there is no real offer to guide them towards adapted or ordinary work through the path guidance.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u11	Minister, I have not had a chance yet, but I wanted to join the actua debate very briefly. We are in an exceptional situation, for which appropriate measures are required. We have stopped the degressivity of unemployment, which is important, especially since people do not choose to enter unemployment. It is therefore a good thing that this measure is in place. At the same time, we must work on reactivation. That can and must be done. Adapted training can also be used, even during the current period. However, we know that the covid crisis does not allow many training courses and reactivation pathways to continue. We must therefore dare to look at the dossier with these glasses and be very careful to suddenly end the measures we have taken to protect people. People have not chosen voluntarily to enter temporary unemployment.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u12	Mr Minister, no one has said that those who are unemployed have chosen to do so. Even without corona, I assume that there are no unemployed people who choose to become unemployed. So that doesn't really make any difference. I note that the argument here is that training routes and so on would be more stationary. It is not the case that every unemployed person in order to be able to be led to one of the many open vacancies needs some intensive journey. That is a very one-sided presentation of the facts. I think we should be able to have that debate. Mrs De Jonge, you are right, I am glad that you are joining me, it is indeed high time that this exit strategy was implemented, even when it came to activating our labour market. The degressivity of unemployment benefits is, of course, a non-important part of this. Mrs. De Jonge, I'm a little disappointed, and you probably too, that the rest of your majority, your government, apparently doesn't follow you yet. I hope that will change soon. Today, however, it does not look very good. I'm very sorry. Mrs Vanrobaeys is right, having a job is indeed good for self-confidence and self-esteem. It is an important part of their social life for many people, of their social contact, no matter how difficult it is today on the workplace, in corona time. But even better that than no social contact. There are many reasons why it is important to stimulate people towards a job. I am very sorry that today it is almost a taboo to have this debate on this subject. I suspect this will be continued.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u13	Mrs De Jonge, I will return to you because you have been quoted and I understand your wish to respond. But would you please try to do it as briefly as possible? This will be the last intervention in the debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u14	Madam Secretary, I will be very brief. I have started my reply by saying that the freezing of degressivity in the current circumstances is certainly acceptable, and that I support the Minister. Only I say that we must look to the future and we must work out a re-launch plan, because what my fellow Members are saying is that we never choose unemployment. A relaunch plan with a short-term and medium-term activation policy will be absolutely necessary. Mr. Secretary, I'm glad you extended the freeze. I believe that it is also important that we ensure that these people are no longer in poverty, but at the same time that we are also working on a relaunch plan in which activation will play a very important role.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u15	Mr Minister, my questions are somewhat dated, but that is why they are no less important in general terms, because they are about dealing with the corona crisis. On 30 December 2020, the Consultation Committee decided that anyone returning to Belgium after a minimum of 48 hours in a red zone should be quarantined. That quarantine can only be terminated after a negative PCR test on day seven of the quarantine. There were a number of exceptions, including for students who have to take an exam, people who have to travel for professional reasons and people who exercise critical functions in key sectors. Those who are unable to work at home during the compulsory quarantine cannot, according to your statements in the press, be entitled to a benefit and must take leave if necessary, whether or not they are paid. However, those who perform a critical function in an essential sector can still work in the workplace. It is up to the employer to decide whether a position is critical. That raises a number of questions for me. On the basis of which criteria should an employer assess the critical nature of a particular job? How and when were employers informed about this? How can an employer know whether or not he belongs to an essential sector? How and when were employers informed about this? How is this exception checked for critical functions in key sectors? What are the sanctions against possible infringements? How is an employer informed of the intended residence of workers in a red zone? I know there is a risk that most things will no longer apply, but it is therefore no less important to clarify this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u16	Thank you very much for your question, Mr Anseuw. The Consultation Committee has decided that work at the place of employment can be allowed during the quarantine, both to residents and non-residents, but only when they perform a critical function in an essential sector and when they have a certificate from the employer. The framework has been defined by the Inter-Ministerial Conference (IMC) on Public Health. The list of key sectors and the changes were published in the Belgian Official Journal. Only workers who are unable to work telework may be entitled to an exception to the quarantine obligation, subject to conditions. The Länder have the power of control and determine the sanctions. In addition, the federal inspection services can only control certain obligations imposed by the Ministerial Order "Corona." The sanctions provided for in the Social Criminal Code apply. For foreign workers and self-employed persons temporarily coming to work in Belgium, the Ministerial Decree imposes certain obligations. It is about the Passenger Location Form (PLF), keeping contact information and a mandatory negative test. If employees go abroad as part of a professional relocation, the employer is of course aware and can check the quarantine. However, if workers go abroad during their holidays, which has been prohibited since the Consultation Committee of 22 January, the employer can only point out to him the rules governing quarantine and testing. However, the employee is not obliged to inform his employer of a foreign journey. The Regions are responsible for the control of compulsory quarantine and testing. The information on all persons returning from abroad on the basis of the PLF is available to the contact centres and can thus be checked by the Länder.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u17	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your reply. If I understand correctly, those foreign residences should not necessarily be known by the employers. I therefore assume that no sanction can be imposed on them if it appears that certain workers who are to be in quarantine are still found in the workplace. I also asked about the way in which the employers were informed by the government of a number of issues relating to the decision on the list of key sectors. You restricted yourself in your reply by stating that everything was published in the Belgian Official Journal. I think that is a short form of communication from the government. I hope the communication was a little more detailed than that. I suspect that many employers do not read the Belgian Official Journal daily, even in corona times. I can't really blame them for that either, because there is more interesting and more clear reading than that. I can only advocate a little more proactive communication with the employers. I have asked questions about other aspects of these decisions, but I am still asking questions about this kind of half-hearted decision-making. I suspect that the results of the decisions taken at the end of December on certain measures to combat the pandemic will not be written about it either, but we will probably never know. One of the bad things about the last ten months is that really objective dates are not available or made available to the public.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u18	Minister, I will not give the same introduction again. I'll get right to the heart of the matter. I referred to the Consultation Committee on 30 December. Following that decision, you have also made it public that those who are required to be quarantined and unable to work at home cannot claim a benefit and therefore have to take leave if necessary, even if there was no travel ban at that time. So someone broke a rule that doesn't actually exist. There was no violation of a rule, but it was sanctioned in certain cases by the expiry of the right to temporary unemployment benefit. I have the following questions. Minister, what was the legal basis at that time for denying a person the right to temporary unemployment, which met all the conditions and at that time there was no travel ban to violate? How was it ensured that people who did not inform their employer and/or government about a stay in a red zone did not receive temporary unemployment? How did you check that out? I just referred to the cheese with holes. I'm very curious if the holes were actually closed. Which data streams were used for enforcement? Who used these data streams in what way?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u19	Mr Anseuw, a worker returning from a red zone after a private trip has no right to temporary unemployment. After all, there is no question of force majeure. He knew the quarantine obligation would apply after a trip to a red zone. This information is not new. It has been available for several weeks at the Corona FAQs of the RVA. The news is also widely distributed by the press and is included on the social secretariats and trade unions' website. With regard to your question on the flow of information, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the control of quarantine is a matter for the regions. A worker who does not comply with the quarantine rules may be punished according to the measures taken by the Länder.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u20	Minister, there is one point where we differ fundamentally in this matter. Supposing there was a legal basis to deny someone the right to a benefit when no rule was broken, I really think it's out of my mind, if I may say so. If someone does not break any rule, I find the punishment that can still be denied him or her a right. I also asked which data streams were used to control and maintain this. You say that it is up to the regions to control and maintain that, but in that the federal reporting tool is an important element. It must still be possible to use it today, for example by local authorities to maintain the quarantine obligation. I myself am also ships in a small town and only find that the data that arrives in my city is not actually usable. Thus, you have de facto created a situation in which many things cannot be controlled, which means that you have installed unequal treatment with far-reaching consequences. It concerns the right to a benefit which lapses while the rightholder has not broken any rules. I find that special, because it was not forbidden to travel to a red zone. On 31 December, you stated that, even if no travel rule has been broken, you can still whistle for a benefit because the government imposed a new rule when they had already left on their way. I don't think that's serious to people. If there is to be support for certain restrictions on the reduction of the corona pandemic, then this is not really a textbook example of an orderly and serious way of dealing with the population. This is no way to work. I thought it was one of the worst episodes of the past few months in the field of corona policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u21	Mr Minister, workers who have to take up holidays to take care of a child as a result of the closure of childcare, school or care for the disabled because of corona measures can benefit from the temporary unemployment scheme for reasons of force majeure. In view of the decisions of the Consultation Committee of 30 December 2020, I still have some questions in this regard. Are parents eligible for temporary unemployment for reasons of force majeure when they receive their children because they cannot go to school, care, childcare or care for disabled people because of the compulsory quarantine due to a foreign trip? What is the legal basis?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u22	Mr Anseuw, if parents are required to be quarantined because of a foreign journey, they cannot claim benefits such as temporary unemployed or for the care of a child who cannot go to school. In order to receive a benefit, employees must be involuntaryly unemployed. The employee who is quarantined because of a foreign trip is therefore not covered by the Law of 23 October 2020 to open temporary unemployment force majeure corona.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u23	Thank you, Minister, for your clear answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u24	Madam President, Minister, I tabled this question a while ago. At the same time, I have also tabled a written question on the same subject, in which I ask for more details. I refer to the text of my question as tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u25	Madam President, Mr Segers, in the fight against trafficking in human beings and economic exploitation, a policy priority is rightly the focus on detection and therefore on field controls. The problems of staffing the ECOSOC teams of the RSZ inspection are well known. The current capacity is insufficient and threatens to be reduced by retirements. Additional staff resources will be allocated in order to intensify the field controls. The problem with waiting lists occurred specifically in Brussels in 2020 and was mainly caused by extensive studies on social status. By the end of 2020, the backlog was overtaken. At present, any suspected victim can certainly be heard within the 35-day time limit. For most social inspection services, the checks in these covid times mean more work and take more time. Moreover, they were also not spared from infections or quarantine. However, inspection services continued to carry out control actions in a variety of sectors, such as night shops, pita stores, hand car washes and courier services, especially in cases where controls were necessary and urgent, for example when the services had information on a suspicion of exploitation of labour. From June 2020 onwards, the number of controls again approached an acceptable level within the risk sectors. In the case of multiple checks, facts of trafficking in human beings were established and reported to the labour auditors. Since the outbreak of the corona crisis in March 2020, the police forces have strongly focused on maintaining the corona measures. Police inspectors sometimes do not have the means or the means to transfer victims to a specialised shelter. Unfortunately, that problem also existed before the corona crisis. I'll discuss that with the Home Secretary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u26	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your commitment. The fight against trafficking in human beings is indeed an absolute policy priority in the coalition agreement. We are also very pleased that it is so explicitly included in the coalition agreement. During the negotiations, this was an important passage for my party, for sp.a., soon Forward. You outlined it, the ECOSOC teams had to work in difficult circumstances. Nevertheless, they have continued to do this important work in a very good way. The ECOSOC teams are indeed taking human trafficking out of the hidden. In order to do this, they need sufficient resources, dixit the coalition agreement, to do detection and to do these field controls. Minister, we have very good legislation in the fight against trafficking in human beings, but we must also be able to guarantee that this fight can be fought as closely as possible in the future. We are, of course, counting on the ECOSOC teams and therefore on you, primarily by ensuring that the ECOSOC teams have sufficient resources, that the necessary replacements are made and that these teams are further developed. I wish you every success in that. I will certainly come back to you once in a while to ask about a state of affairs. In the meantime, thank you for the follow-up.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u27	Mr Minister, before the corona crisis, the political line was followed to phase out the system of single payment unemployment (SWT), the former bridge pension. According to labour specialists Jan Denys and Stijn Baert it seems that the SWT has been away this year. At the same time, they point out that we may soon return to the pre-corona crisis, a labour market with many vacancies and few jobseekers. The SWT or bridge pension was introduced in the 1980s, a period in which the number of unemployed was very high and the number of vacancies was very low. At that time we had the reverse situation and the underlying idea was to allow older workers to move in a soft way for the younger unemployed. Meanwhile, research has also shown that people work longer, as they pay more taxes and absorb less pension costs, which means that young people and their employers have to be less taxed. Work creates work. They therefore call for the 55-plussers to continue to work and, above all, to retrain through lifelong learning and reorientation. Minister, do you agree that the SWT should be further reduced? Are you planning further initiatives to dismantle the SWT? If that's not the case, why not? I hope that last question is unnecessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u28	Mr Van der Donkt, the system of unemployment with a single payment, the former bridge pension, was introduced by the social partners and is the result of collective agreement No. 17 of 19 December 1974. The mechanism is important for workers because it allows them to adapt their careers. It is also important for employers for the organisation of the company. A harmonious end-of-life policy will be the subject of the Annual Employment Conference in 2021. The aim of the conference is to come up with concrete action plans. In this context, together with the Länder and the social partners, we will analyse the existing end-of-life arrangements. The question of the single payment system will undoubtedly be raised. This will show whether the social partners want to change something and what adjustments are needed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u29	Minister, you have not really answered my question. I would have liked to have heard your personal views and those of the government. You refer to the social partners. It's easy to hide behind that. Let me conclude with the concerns of labour specialists and economists such as Professor Stijn Baert, who has explicitly said that the bridge pension system actually belongs in the museum of poor political policy. You are also aware of our position. We will ensure that the SWT is further reduced and that alternatives are sought. It is perfectly possible to keep older workers at work with respect for working well-being.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u30	Madam President, Mr Bombled, in Belgium, the recession is broadly similar to that observed in the rest of the European Union. In its autumn forecast, the European Commission expected a 7.8% fall in GDP in the euro area in 2020, followed by a 4.2% increase in GDP in 2021. OECD and IMF have published broadly similar estimates. According to the latest estimates by the Federal Office of the Plan, last September, the GDP decline in 2020 will be slightly more limited (- 7.4 %) and the recovery in 2021 will be stronger (+ 6.5 %) at. The rapid estimate of GDP of 29 October 2020 of the National Bank of Belgium (NBB) indicated a 10,7 % increase in GDP in the third quarter of 2020 compared to the previous quarter. Despite this historic quarterly recovery, annual growth remains very negative, at -5.2 per cent. The year 2022 is also considered to be a "catch-up year", with growth of 3.1%. Until 2025, the economic activity of the Belgian private sector is expected to remain below the level that could have been achieved in a pandemic-free scenario. The question of whether Belgium will enter into a longer recession will of course depend on the duration of the measures, but also on the international framework. You know that our open economy is particularly sensitive to what is being done in neighbouring countries and to their economic situation. We also have employment forecasts. The European Commission is planning a further increase in the Belgian unemployment rate to 7% in 2021, followed by a recovery in employment. The Federal Office of the Plan foresees an increase in administrative unemployment in 2021 and a loss of 55,000 jobs in the same year. However, by 2025, it is expected to return to pre-crisis levels, with an increase of 67,000 jobs in 2022. Average unemployment in the European Union is estimated to reach 8.3%, but it would also begin to decline by 2022. For more details on employment, the sectors or the most affected population groups, I refer you to the bimonthly follow-up of the Social Impact Corona Crisis working group, in which my services participate and which can be consulted on the Social Security FPS website. Finally, we already see that temporary unemployment, on the one hand, continues to absorb the effects of covid-19 measures in a number of sectors and, on the other hand, is caused by more structural difficulties. This must be taken into account when adapting and developing the various measures. Similarly, full support must be given to the search for new jobs in sectors and enterprises where job closures and job losses are inevitable in the coming months. In addition, the covid-19 crisis will also accelerate broader developments, such as digitization and ecological transition, but also the deindustrialisation and tertiarization of our economy. Statistics on temporary unemployment, job seekers or temporary work suggest that low-skilled people, young people and people of foreign origin may again be the most affected by these effects. This also underlines, and I conclude with this, the importance of education and training. The recovery policy must therefore be complemented by structural reforms to eliminate these weaknesses.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u31	Minister, thank you for your full answers. Beyond the sectors at a standstill such as horeca, certain contact trades or events, the most pessimistic sectors are the automotive trade, the steel industry or the paper and glass sectors, I could read. It will therefore be important that the competitiveness of our companies be preserved. As far as possible, the State is likely to have to maintain, for some time, this exceptional aid in order to ensure the liquidity of enterprises. However, more structural measures – as you mentioned – will also have to be put in place to help strengthen the solvency of Belgian companies. Finally, although there will probably not be a return to normal before 2022, hope that economic activity can rebound in the second half of 2021 thanks also to a good vaccination campaign.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u32	Madam Chair, Member of Parliament, I do not teach you anything by telling you that, for many years, the status of artist has posed a series of problems with its application. As a result, many creative artists do not have access to them, be they artists, technicians and project promoters. The crisis of the coronavirus has brought this reality to light at times dramatically. To bring an imperfect but necessary first solution, at the initiative of your Parliament, a law has been passed that provides additional protection to the most vulnerable workers in the sector. As Minister of Labour, I have made sure that the crisis measures are extended to ensure access to temporary unemployment in the simplest and fastest possible way. Like you, I pay particular attention to all the difficulties these workers face. Together with the ONEM and the payment agencies, I ensure that the necessary solutions are systematically provided. With regard to the status, the Government is committed to improving and allocating a budget to finance this improvement. It's essential to me. The status will be improved in consultation with workers in the sector and the social partners. On behalf of the government and my colleagues concerned, I am in charge of these consultations. My firm has regular contacts with the very active cultural sector in this reform. You heard them at the auditions. Various proposals have already come to us. We will soon summarize these contributions and on the basis of the work done by your assembly, we will organise a meeting with the various actors. I want this invitation to be as inclusive as possible, open to all federations in the sector. Next, we will form a working group to ensure that all disciplines and types of workers, artists or technicians, are represented. I hope to present concrete proposals to you in the first half of this year. We are also working with the Regions and the Communities on the situation of cultural workers. In collaboration with the various levels of power, a cadastre of cultural aids was created and published on the website www.culture.be. In addition, I received the letter from UPAC-T and offered them a meeting in the coming days. I remain very attentive to the situation of workers in the cultural sector in this period of crisis, as I mentioned at the start of my reply. I am not happy to close the meeting places and cultural places. Like everyone else, I can't wait to see a show or a play, or to attend a concert. However, we know that we still need to be careful in the coming weeks. I am of course aware that further measures are needed. As I mentioned in response to the questions on freezing degressivity, the government is currently considering various complementary support measures for sectors and people affected by the crisis. I have made proposals concerning workers in the cultural sector, and I hope that I will soon be able to come back to you to detail the content and scope of these new measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u33	Thank you, Minister. I would like to go back to a few points, including the law of 15 July. It is our regular responsibility that, in fact, there are not many people who actually benefit from it as widely as we thought when the text was drafted. This situation is explained by two factors. First, should this law perhaps be reviewed and adapted? Secondly, as you have pointed out, the administrative difficulty of this law may be a hindrance to the request for this additional support. It might therefore be interesting to extend this law – which we very much want because we think it makes sense – and to ensure that administrative support is provided, particularly for payment benefit funds. I think it might be helpful to them. For meeting them, I can tell you that they have deployed all the energy to try to regulate a massive influx of demands. All parties involved in this case are in a complicated situation. As regards the meetings, the synthesis of contributions, the information in the first half of the year and the cadastre, these are just as many elements that I would like to stress for their extremely positive character. We're working and we're moving forward, because I have the impression that everyone is getting their hands on it and that we can achieve our goal. Thank you very much for your contribution, too. No later than this morning, a request was made for us to meet you and Ministers Vandenbroucke and Clarinval for an exchange of views. I'd like to come back to the renewal of the status of artist. The year 2021 will move forward faster than we imagine, why not consider automating this status renewal for all those who got it in 2020. This would undoubtedly facilitate the work and work of payment funds, given that renewal is now subject to proof of three benefits. Because of the extremely complicated situation we are experiencing today, why not consider 2021 a white year for the renewal of the status? Finally, when it comes to recovery – and we are talking more and more about the cultural spring to which everyone aspires – it will be necessary to provide a buffer period or a transitional period with transitional measures in order not to abandon workers overnight. I urge you to do so, minister, but I am confident that you will ensure that this is the case. I would add that the same kind of question was raised for bridge law this morning with Minister Clarinval. Before concluding my speech, I would like to ask the interpreters to apologize because I spoke very quickly with a lot to say.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u34	Madam Chair, Minister, I will not repeat what has just been said. I would just like to draw attention to some points. We have already had the opportunity to ask for figures. However, they do not correspond to the information we have received from the ground. Initiatives are therefore still needed in this area. I am glad to hear that you will meet all the federations because the sector is "rich" – I would say – and has many facets. It is therefore important that everyone be able to be integrated. I stress the role we want to continue to play, as a constructive opposition party, in this committee. We therefore hope that you will keep us informed of the progress of your work. We would not like to be made aware at the end of the process, especially since it was put in place before the government was set up; indeed, measures had already been taken for this sector under the previous government. In any event, we would really like to participate in the further reflection.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u35	Minister, a few weeks ago, on a proposal from Mrs Lanjri, we held a debate in this Chamber on the equivalent of meal and ecocheques which have expired because the employee did not exchange them. What's to be done with that? That was the main thrust of the debate. Everyone agreed that these checks should be sent to the employee in full. We have now extended the validity of these cheques. We also reactivated the checks that had expired. But then the question arose that this is not so obvious for the ecocheques. That's what makes things more difficult. The ecocheques, unlike the meal cheques, would still be paper versions. The question is whether they can be digitized. I have a few specific questions on the subject. Are you working on further digitisation of the ecocheques? What measures are being taken to this end? And how long can this happen? I've shortened my questions a little bit, just to be clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u36	Mrs De Jonge, thank you for your question. The collective agreement No. 98 establishes the list of ecological products and services that can be purchased by ecocheques. This collective agreement also lays down the minimum modalities for granting which must be respected. This matter is mainly managed by the social partners who are members of the National Labour Council. The social and tax treatment of the ecocheques is managed by the FPS Social Security and the FPS Finance. Since 1 January 2016, ecocheques can also be awarded electronically. The figures received by my administration from the Voucher Issuers Association (VIA), a dome-vzw of companies that issue meal and ecocheques, show that the percentage of electronically paid ecocheques systematically increases. For paper ecocheques, the percentage of unused ecocheques is 2%. For the electronic, that is 0.6%. The social partners continue to focus on further digitising the ecocheques in order to reduce the share of unused cheques. They are asking for a regulatory framework for this, a question which we are in favour of and which has already been discussed with the cabinet of the Minister for Social Affairs, my colleague Frank Vandenbroucke. Meanwhile, the issuing companies have decided autonomously to only issue ecocheques in electronic form. The full digitisation of ecocheques should therefore be achieved in the very short term.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u37	Minister, it is quite clear that there is a commitment. I am therefore very pleased that this will automatically increase the percentage of issuance. It can be seen with the meal cheques, which are already digital. There the issue is bigger than for the ecocheques. I am very pleased to hear that many partners are now cooperating to fully digitize them. That makes those checks much more user-friendly and also better for the people who can spend them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u38	Mrs Vanrobaeys, the FOD WASO has never established a procedure for determining critical functions. The note on the website was an information note from the RMG, in implementation of the decision of the Consultation Committee of 30 December 2020. In the meantime, that note has been removed from the website, as it is now clear that determining the rules on quarantine and the exceptions thereto are the powers of the Länder. As regards the pilot project with the rapid tests, over the last few days and weeks, there have been several consultations with Minister Crevits' cabinet to ensure that the project is not in breach of federal welfare legislation and labour law. In the meantime, certain modalities of the project were modified and adapted to the comments of the FOD WASO.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u39	Thank you for your reply, Minister. I was worried about that. It is a project in which 40,000 rapid tests are now being started in 50 companies, but after evaluation, 4 million rapid tests would be spread over essential companies. It is very important that the workers in these essential companies have access to them, as long as they have not been vaccinated. They reduce risk and increase security in order to work in safe conditions. It is a work that is necessary and essential and cannot be teleworking. I would have regretted it if the project had collided with labour law. In this sense, I am pleased that the note was an informative note and did not indicate the contours of labour law, and that there is also cooperation to bring that project to a successful conclusion, examining the labour law contours and working together to ensure the safety of the essential workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u40	Madam President, Minister, a recent study by the Directorate-General for Employment of the European Commission shows that Belgium is the only country that has so much difficulty with changes in the labour market. If low or middle skilled workers are systematically more unemployed than highly skilled workers, this indicates a labour market that is struggling with these changes. That is the case in Belgium. I asked a question about this on 12 January, but I thought you were a little under-ambitious in your answer. That's why I put in a new question. After all, the government agreement also contains a number of interesting passages on this subject, namely the ambition to promote labour mobility towards sectors with shortages, which requires further training and reorientation. That's all right. The government agreement continues that jobseekers should be returned to the labour market as soon as possible. We welcome that. Labour mobility between labour market regions should be promoted. Furthermore, in consultation with the social partners and the Länder, the government will focus on training and training of workers throughout their careers. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. What is the federal government's view on the flexibilisation of the labour market? What federal policies will you take to promote labour mobility? Has there been any consultation between the government, the Länder and the social partners to coordinate initiatives and draw up any action plans? If so, what was discussed and agreed? Will you also take initiatives in unemployment insurance to further reduce unemployment traps and tighten up the availability rules for appropriate work? If so, in what sense would you like to do so?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u41	The federal government believes that labour regulation is at the heart of the social dialogue. I'm sure you won't be surprised, Mr Anseuw. The government will therefore give the social partners every opportunity to make proposals. The social partners' agreements will also be fully implemented by the government. As far as labour mobility is concerned, the importance of continuing training, retraining and reorientation of workers cannot be stressed enough. This is not an exclusive competence of the federal government: the regions also have an important role to play in this area. There is therefore a need for and regular consultation between the various authorities. The federal government will shortly make a proposal to the social partners on the right to training and interprofessional training objectives. As far as unemployment regulation is concerned, we are systematically investigating whether unemployment falls occur. If that's the case, we'll do everything we can to get rid of it. At the employment conference later this year we will look at what measures are appropriate for a harmonious career end. I take the suggestion that one of the next conferences should be organised on the subject of labour mobility.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u42	Indeed, Minister, you did not surprise me by saying that, as far as you are concerned, labour regulations are at the heart of the social dialogue. Unfortunately, you did not surprise me with your rather vague answer to my very specific question as to what has already been discussed with the Länder and the social partners regarding the flexibility of the labour market and the strengthening of labour mobility. You remain in the plains, and that leads me to suspect that not much has been discussed yet. After all, you started by saying that you are actually waiting for the social partners. If they reach an agreement, you will implement it in full. I therefore believe that we will have to have another debate, namely that who pays also determines a part of it. The full implementation of any social agreement should not always be taken for granted. I am sorry that, despite my efforts to ask very specific questions, you have not given any concrete answers. I won't let this go. On the contrary, I will come back to this shortly with a few written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u43	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, a driver who is self-employed has addressed the Administrative Commission for the Settlement of the Labour Relations (CRT) because he felt that he should in fact be regarded as an employee because of a link of subordination. During the examination of this case by the CRT, it became clear that the criteria for classifying the employment relationship as an employee were indeed met. This decision falls within the scope of the Industrial Relations Act, which provides for general and specific evaluation criteria. After analysis by the TRC, it appears that the criteria for classifying the employment relationship as "independent" are not met. For example, it was noted that the driver had no decision-making power over the pricing policy, that he did not appear to be an independent company with regard to his customers, that before the acceptance of the race he did not know the destination or distance to be travelled, that there was no room for manoeuvre as to the route to be followed, that he was constantly monitored by the geolocation system and, finally, that he was punished in the event of refusal of a race or of a low average rating. As I have already indicated, in accordance with the government agreement, the Labour Relations Act will be evaluated with the social partners and, if necessary, adapted. This new decision will of course be taken into account in the evaluation. However, it will not be the only criterion. Like all decisions rendered by the TRC, the anonymized decision can be found on its website and is numbered 187. In addition, the TRC has also taken decisions on other platforms, and we will of course be careful not to discriminate. As I have already said, the law on industrial relations will be reviewed and, if necessary, adapted with the social partners. That is so included in the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u44	Minister, thank you for your answer. Indeed, it is important to tackle the thorny construction of false independents and digital platforms, as provided for in the government agreement. All the more so since there would be a great difference between the flexibility and freedom of provision which these companies claim to leave to their employees and the reality on the ground. An adaptation of the Act on the nature of labour relations therefore seems necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u45	Minister, I had intended to keep calm on this point, but I am really angry. As a good trade unionist, I have to watch companies like Deliveroo and Uber always manage to slip through the loopholes, despite the more than 80 different wage systems we have in Belgium. There are innumerable rules for self-employed people. The worst is the conditions under which these people are recruited. They don't even know what they're signing. They don't know what they're getting into. At best, two years later, they get hit in the face when effective costs come in at checks, as they have now done after a complaint. Mr. Secretary, we're in a hurry. In 2021, Deliveroo will expand Belgium to ten new cities including Tournai and Bergen on the French-speaking side. Let us be clear, the digital economy certainly has the potential to become the sector of the future. But this must not cost the government money, and certainly not for billions of companies such as those mentioned above, to the detriment of the workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u46	Minister, thank you for your answer, although it is a little too short to my liking. It is a developing sector, in which it is important for everyone to know and understand the rules in force. We can expect an increase in this sector in the coming years. It is important that everyone can be clear with the rules in force there. We have a government agreement saying that, on the one hand, in order to provide good working conditions and better social protection, particular attention will be paid to the platform economy and, on the other hand, that there will be, in cooperation with the social partners and the sector, an evaluation and possibly an adaptation of the law on the nature of labour relations. Today, we hear that the Labour Relations Board (LRB) is issuing an opinion. This is the opportunity to implement the content of your government agreement. But you do not answer about the follow-up you are considering giving to this opinion. It is not enough to say the rule. It is also important to uphold it. For example, are you going to make contact with the social inspectorate to enforce it? Did Uber declare his workers as employees? I don't think so yet. That was the subject of my question. You also do not answer about the timing and evaluation you plan to do. Perhaps it takes a little time for your firm to put it into practice and consider dialogue with the social partners. You know that I am extremely committed to this dialogue. I invite you to take initiatives in this direction. Today, there are these decisions made by the TRC. It is important to follow it up and not let a rule evaporate into nature that must be the same for everyone. I'll come back to you with these questions in a while. I hope you can tell us that you have made progress in the dialogue, in consultation with the social partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u47	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I understand that there are many yards at the moment, but I would like to insist that progress be made on this. The digital platforms such as Deliveroo are indeed currently expanding. There are several cities where they will develop their activities. I have nothing against digital apps. I see the ease of that. Nothing easier than ordering a taxi or food via an app. However, this digitisation must not be at the expense of the protection of workers and the level playing field that exists with us. It is really important that we use this statement now to fuel the debate so that the social partners can engage in dialogue and make concrete proposals to ensure that the workers of the digital platforms are protected. They must be forced to comply with the rules here. I think the statement of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs is very important. They say clearly, on the basis of the criteria, that they are employees. I wonder whether social inspections should no longer be used to effectively enforce those rules. I think we have all the arguments in hand to point out to the digital platforms that they must respect our rules of the game.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u48	Mr Bombled, the development of the individual training account is a firm promise made in our government agreement. It is clear that I intend to implement it as soon as possible, ideally within the framework of the recovery plan. In the first phase, we will draw up a picture of the current situation. Next, it will be necessary to determine, among other things, what will be included in this individual training account and how particular attention may be paid to certain target groups. All this will be done in close consultation with the social partners, employers' and trade union organisations and the relevant regional authorities. As we are still in the start-up phase of the project, the individual training account file has not yet been discussed with the social partners, but they will of course be consulted, already this week, on another aspect of training, namely the inter-professional right to five days of training and the individual right to training for each employee. You know that tax incentives are being put in place by my colleague Vincent Van Peteghem. I think everyone is aware that the more workers are trained, the more skills they have – digital in particular – the stronger they are in the labour market and the more value they have for their employers and, by extension, for society in general. I addressed this issue in a more specific way this morning with Cefora, who is particularly active in the field of training, whose director has personal professional experience in a French company. In France, the individual training account, even if it does not bear the same name, has been in operation for several years. The director of Cefora has told me about the merits and the concrete effects that he has brought to our neighbours. I have no doubt that we will have the opportunity to come back to this topic which is of particular interest to me and which I intend to place among the priorities of this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u49	Minister, thank you for your answers. Training workers during their careers is a major asset not only for themselves but also for the company for which they work. In fact, in the field, average employees and managers are the ones who benefit most. The establishment of an individual training account is part of the government agreement, and I mean you're working on it. You will soon target some specific groups and start a discussion with the social partners and federated entities, which is quite normal. I will not fail to ask you in the future about the progress of your work in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u50	Ms. Chair, Mr. Bombled, the complete list of sectors in which referrals have been made and those in which a collective agreement has been reached can be found on the Employment CPS website. I'll send you back. Currently, two sectors, those covered by CP 328/03 on urban and regional transport for the Brussels-Capital Region and CP 306 on insurance, have concluded a collective agreement on the introduction of career savings. Some 10 Joint Committees have also been referred to. In these sectors, it is therefore possible to introduce a career savings system through a collective agreement. On the basis of the data on collective agreements available to the administration, we can also conclude that a few companies have concluded a specific collective agreement in this context. The law concerning feasible and manageable work which introduced the career savings system provides for the possibility for the CNT to evaluate the system. The social partners have also received such a request from the previous Minister of Labour, Mrs Muylle, and work within the CNT is still under way on this point. In connection with the government agreement, I am of course counting on the social partners to speak on the issue of making career savings accessible to every worker at the sector or company level. This system, which is provided for in the law concerning feasible and manageable work, must be regulated by a collective agreement. We do not know to what extent companies are applying existing or alternative forms, but, as I have just said, this system is being evaluated within the NTC. At the end of the work of the CNT, I think we can have more precise information and consider the evolution or not of the system.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u51	Minister, thank you for your answer. It must be noted that, while career savings is a mechanism favourable to the worker who has the possibility of managing part of his career himself and taking breaks when he deems it useful, its implementation by law concerning feasible and manageable work is heavy and therefore often prevents its deployment. Let us, of course, wait for the conclusions of the CNT! However, I believe that the negotiating procedures are still relatively complex and that it would probably be appropriate to consider their possible relief.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u52	Mr Minister, since I submitted this question, I have already received some more information myself. A call was launched for volunteers to help in the vaccination centres. We all want to help a little to ensure that everything goes as well and as smoothly as possible. We all want to be vaccinated quickly, protected from the virus, because we all long for freedom. My question concerns the temporary unemployed who want to volunteer. Can the RVA grant a general authorisation in this respect? That could reduce the administration considerably. I wouldn't want volunteers to be punished for their commitment. I volunteered myself. Yesterday I was told by the city of Aalst, where I gave up, that I receive a daily fee of 35.41 euros and that at least 4 shifts a month are expected from me, or more if possible. Furthermore, the explanation remains concise. My fear is next. A temporary or temporary unemployed person who may start volunteering with great enthusiasm and does 10 shifts a month between 17 February and the end of June, reaches the annual ceiling and threatens to lose some of the unemployment allowance. What's the deal with that, exactly? Is the situation sufficiently clear for an unemployed person? Can there be contact with the Regions? When the first-line zones communicate to the unemployed among their volunteers, it would be good if those concerned knew very well what they were getting into and where they could take up their commitment. It would be too bad if their benefits were reduced.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u53	Madam President, Mrs Vanrobaeys, the Royal Decree of 25 November 1991 on the rules governing unemployment provides for the possibility of a worker who is temporarily or completely unemployed volunteering. As provided for in the Law on the Rights of Volunteers, compensation for this is compatible with unemployment benefit, provided that the allowance does not exceed EUR 35,41 per day and EUR 1,416,16 per year. The RVA has decided to exempt volunteers from the declaration of activity if the assistance in vaccination centres meets these conditions. Temporary unemployed persons are currently subject to a derogation until 31 March 2021 for employment with another employer in the care sector, education or contact tracing centres. I asked the RVA to add the vaccination centres to this list.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u54	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your reply. I believe that this general explanation will save a lot of administrative work. If the temporary unemployed were covered by this derogation, they would be subject to higher ceilings. This is not the case for ordinary unemployed people. The first-line zones require a certain level of commitment to ensure continuity in vaccination centres. I understand that. I think it is extremely important that temporary unemployed and unemployed people who are engaged are very well aware of the limits within which they can combine this voluntary service with a benefit. In this way, they will not be surprised afterwards and will certainly not be penalised by lower benefits, even though they have just entered into that commitment to lead us all to freedom.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u55	Madam President, Minister, the wave of layoffs following the coronavirus pandemic is, as we know, causing enormous damage in the economic world. Some sectors are particularly affected. In my region, the Bridgestone Aircraft company based in Frameries, active in the aviation sector, has just announced its intention to lay off 18 workers and two subcontractors. In this enterprise, the level of activity has fallen sharply since March, with a massive recourse to "corona" unemployment for both workers and employees. They have sometimes been unemployed at 40% during the first confinement, in contrast to other companies in the same less-impacted chemical sector, which have been in full swing. This is why trade union representatives defend the idea of a system of "corona" aid which would go beyond the purely sectoral approach. In concrete terms, they would like the federal government to be able to rely on data from ONEM and the use of the "corona" unemployment of each company between March 2020 and December 2021. In particular, trade unions propose a level – 25% of the staff who find themselves unemployed for example – beyond which the aid would be extended automatically for companies which have resorted to this type of unemployment. Minister, have your services established contact with the management and unions of the Bridgestone workers in Frameries? The extension of the "corona" measures until 2022 could allow a company like Bridgestone Frameries to go through the crisis in the long term, without depending on a government decision taken every three months. Can it be considered? How do you intend to respond to the trade union demand to stop working in a purely sectoral approach to prolonging unemployment assistance "corona"?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u56	Madam President, Mr Thiébaut, I am of course aware of the situation of Bridgestone Aircraft, which is an industrial bouncing flagship, as you pointed out. In view of the number of dismissals envisaged – as you said, there are 18 out of about 200 staff members – the Renault procedure has not been initiated. However, my teams, my firm, have already established contacts and they will, of course, continue with the workers' representatives, as well as with the management of the company. As you mentioned, temporary unemployment must remain a bulwark against redundancies, especially in sectors which are particularly affected or which will still be affected in the medium and long term by the consequences of the health crisis. The current measures on 'corona' unemployment, as you know and as the workers' representatives have pointed out, are general measures which, for the moment, concern all sectors. As I have already said in this committee, we have been studying for some time more targeted measures that could help workers and businesses overcome the crisis in the medium or long term. This is what was envisaged and what is planned for companies that are or will be impacted by Brexit. In the same vein, I think that we should be able to envisage accompanying measures such as temporary unemployment over longer periods for companies which will continue to be affected in the medium or long term by the consequences of the health crisis. It is therefore clear that I will personally ensure that the systems that will be put in place are as effective as possible in this regard. The relevant comments of the social partners will of course be heard. Like you, I am convinced that we must help our companies to overcome the crisis and that we must not leave any worker on the road to recovery.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u57	Thank you Minister for these very positive responses to union demands. I believe that what you are announcing may put balm at the heart of the workers who are currently negotiating with Bridgestone's management. You leave the door open for an extension of the corona unemployment for them. I think they're very satisfied with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u58	Madam President, Minister, I think it was about a month ago that you announced a small amount of dereliction and made it possible for people who want to be vaccinated against the coronavirus. In order to allow temporary leave for vaccination, it is normally necessary to adapt the legislation on employment contracts. In your view, therefore, just as this circumstance permit for certain events, it should also be possible to take half a day off to be vaccinated. In this case, workers would have the right to remain absent for half a day from work, while maintaining their normal pay. I submitted this question three weeks ago. So she was on this committee's agenda for three weeks to ripen. I understand that there is already an agreement between employers and employees to respond to one of my concerns. I have passed on five questions, and one of them was whether it was possible to make agreements between employers and employees and to do so only for the duration of vaccination and for pre- and post-care. All in all, it takes an average hour, instead of half a day. That would also be part of that agreement, but you will certainly be able to confirm it later. The question is also whether employers can also advise employees to be vaccinated during working hours. After all, I assume that vaccination will also take place outside regular office hours. My question is whether there can be any flexibility there. Do you also provide for compensation for employers when workers apply for a small fee for vaccination? If so, what are the modalities? If not, the cost will of course be entirely borne by the employer. Will the principle of small tolerance be applied to everyone who is vaccinated during the day? These are the questions that still have some actual value, as I submitted them a few weeks ago.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u59	Madam President, Mr Anseeeuw has outlined the situation well and the questions that I had already asked to a large extent. I understand there's a lot of evolution in the file. We look forward to the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u60	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your various questions. We make it possible for workers to be vaccinated on a wage-restraint basis because we want to reach a vaccination rate of at least 70% as soon as possible. Then our companies will be able to run at 100% again in normal conditions and a shortage of labour due to the coronavirus will no longer be present. As far as the duration is concerned, you will understand that it is also the intention to count the movement time to and from the vaccination centre. The proposal therefore gives the necessary time, without minimum. The proposal is aimed solely at workers who wish to use this leave to be vaccinated. I do not think it is a good idea to oblige all workers to be vaccinated on weekends. This would lead to difficult conditions for vaccination centres. By granting vaccination leave, the vaccination of workers can be spread throughout the week. There is currently no question of compensation for employers. We have explicitly opted for a general right to vaccination leave, for all workers. We did so in order to remove all possible thresholds and to avoid that the workers would be dependent on a possible agreement from their boss. The proposal was unanimously approved by the social partners in the National Labour Council. It would be totally irresponsible and counterproductive for employers to advise their employees not to use the right to vaccination leave. This is also explicitly stated in the opinion issued by the National Labour Council on 5 February. Employers would shoot themselves in the foot in this way, as it would help them to have their workers vaccinated as soon as possible. The revival of the economy and our health are not opposite each other, they go hand in hand. Mrs Moscufo, know that there is a comprehensive framework to protect the worker from the intrusions of his employer: firstly, the right to privacy and data protection make the employer's action more complex; secondly, the protection against arbitrary dismissal resulting from the CLC 109 and the anti-discrimination legislation of 10 May 2007, which protects the worker from discriminatory behaviour due to his current or future state of health throughout the employment relationship. Beyond this overall framework, the social partners have specifically drawn attention to these possible difficulties in their opinion since: "The Council stresses that no pressure can be exerted on workers in this context to ensure that vaccination takes place outside working hours". As far as my field of competence is concerned, workers under contract of employment are mainly concerned, i.e. mainly workers in the private sector. For federal and federated public services, discussions are also ongoing and we strongly encourage our colleagues to take similar action. Given the urgency, we are opting for an entry into force as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u61	Thank you, Minister, for your clear answer this time. For a good understanding, I never wanted to suggest that employers should put massive pressure on workers not to be vaccinated during working hours. The question arises as to whether a whole week of vaccination can indeed be carried out. Everything will stand or fall with the timely and sufficient delivery of the vaccines. I'm guessing this isn't always the cat's. Having said that, my concern is also the continuity of work organisation. I assume that the delivery and provision of the necessary vaccines at the right time and in the right place can also create surprises for the employers who need the work organised. I am pleased that all those involved have been very responsible in this debate to this day. I also want to call on everyone to keep doing that. It is indeed in everyone's interest that the economy should be able to attract again, and this does not have to be contrary to the health of employers and workers. I couldn't agree more. I must bear in mind that there are still a number of unexpected things that can arise. That could cause additional problems. That is why I had some questions about the agreement that has now been concluded between employers and employees.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u62	Thank you, Minister, for your clear answer. I also understand that both employers and employees were first concerned about the agreement that is on the table today. These have been disposed of. I have another question or suggestion. I also received comments from a number of sectors on the continuity of work organisation. I can think of some specific sectors where leaving the workplace can cause problems in continuity. Not everyone lives nearby. I have also understood that vaccination will be organised on the basis of the address of residence, so where one is effectively housed. The question arises as to whether an exception can be made for certain sectors. I understand you can't answer that right now, but it might be something to take with you. In this way, we can organise the vaccination site, if good arrangements are made, close to the workplace and not where people are dominated, in the context of the continuity of the workplace. Certain circumstances may justify this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u63	Madam President, Minister, it is a good thing that this agreement has been reached in the National Labour Council. We would like to stress this, even though it has been understood that this is a compromise and that there are still fears in the head of the FGTB - which you have mentioned yourself - that there must be no pressure for vaccination to take place at a time other than during working hours. I think the fear is real and it will have to be kept in mind. I've heard about the different laws that exist to protect the worker, but you know like me that it's not always obvious on the ground. We hope that the inspectors will be vigilant in this regard. Indeed, when one hears what is said here: wanting to replace the half-day necessary to go to vaccination with a single hour, while the stakes are global, the stake of the vaccine as a perspective is paramount and here, one is chipping to scrape three hours in order to avoid the employer from paying them, it is a bit of madness. I agree with you, the employer has no interest in playing this game, otherwise he will shoot himself in the foot. I also hear that you yourself have the will to extend this right to the public sector. How are you going to boost this decision? And you add that it will be applied as quickly as possible. Do you have a date to tell us?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u64	Mr President, the contacts I have had with the workers of the bankrupt Mega World, the successor of Blokker, have struck me enormously. On December 22, Mega World was declared bankrupt. The employees received a letter on the bus that the cooperation had been broken. When I submitted my question, the redundant workers had still not received C4, which means that they had to do without a replacement income throughout the end of the year. Also, the salary from the period Mega World Blokker had taken over until bankruptcy has still not been paid. In the meantime, a number of people have already received their C4 and are also receiving unemployment benefits, so the pay-out services have done their best to put that right. This does not alter the fact that the workers are feeling very badly abandoned. After all, this is also a fraudulent bankruptcy. There are court investigations against the buyer. I have the following questions. How will you ensure that employees have at least a replacement income? What is the situation with regard to the framework and supervision of workers in the context of this fraudulent bankruptcy?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u65	I will not repeat what has been said. The Minister is aware of the manner in which this fraudulent bankruptcy occurred and the problems it creates for the workers, as well as the employer's responsibility in this matter. I will allow myself to read a testimony that I received last night, as I continued to inform myself of the progress of the case. Out of respect for the workers, I give you the testimony as it is. "Hello Nadia, I got the C4, but no bonus and nothing at all. Our unemployment in December co-opted from December 1st to December 21st and then nothing. For my part, I had to take refuge in CPAS and I have been living on 1,200 euros since January. They destroyed us! December: 0 euros to spend the holidays of the year. The CPAS paid me on January 18, it's a shame! I haven't signed my contract yet (she probably got another job). The problem is our age and no plan for me. I'm 51 years old, two children, one of them 12 years old. For employers, it is from the age of 55 that they receive reductions. Long live the system! So I'm in a very bad age range. We were really pushed into the gas chamber, Nadia. Moral is at the lowest level by cashing in employers' refusals: 40 CVs filed or posted and only one positive response. We are destroyed and we have to start over and prove who we are after 32 years of loyal service. It's a shame and the word is weak. Yes, of course, you can use my testimony." I think with this testimony, everything is said. I therefore await the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u66	Thank you, Mrs. Moscufo, for the testimony you gave. It seems to me that this can be done in our assembly. I have closely followed Mega World's case and the disastrous consequences of this bankruptcy on the 650 workers who, as Mrs Vanrobaeys recalled, learned of their dismissal a few days before Christmas, after a very long period of uncertainty. My cabinet recently again spoke to the representatives of the workers of Mega World. Almost all outstanding unemployment benefits were paid by the end of January. These include both temporary unemployment benefits for the month of December and provisional benefits resulting from the bankruptcy. These provisional payments are advances on the compensation of the closure fund which will intervene in a few months' time. We are, of course, already learning from this particularly painful bankruptcy. I hope that we can, together with the social partners, make proposals to improve the fate of the victims of such bankruptcies. Of course, when it comes to alleged offences, justice must be allowed to do its work as efficiently as possible and independently. You know that this is part of my concerns and the principles that I stand for. I will conclude by expressing all my sympathy and support for the workers who are particularly affected by this painful bankruptcy. I hope that justice will be able, as soon as possible, to resolve issues of individual and collective responsibility, and that follow-up will result.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u67	Thank you, Minister, for your reply and for having contacted the workers' representatives. I myself have had a lot of women on the line who work there and sometimes have had a long career. They worked very hard for the company and were suddenly on the streets without anything before the end of the year. Those are things that really grabbed my throat. I am certainly pleased that they now have the necessary social documents to be able to claim these benefits. We must indeed learn lessons from such fraudulent bankruptcies. They actually knew it in advance, when the takeover took place, because the buyer already had a judicial investigation in the Netherlands at the time. We must avoid such abuses in the future, whereby someone with the northern sun disappears and leaves debts at the expense of workers who have worked day and night.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u68	Minister, thank you for your answers. It is true that today, families still find themselves in precarious conditions. This is still a hard blow because the workers hoped for a recovery after the company's bankruptcy. As has been said, the workforce is mainly composed of women aged 45 and over who will now find it difficult to return to work, especially in the current context. Minister, I know you'll do what you can. I also hear that your office has contacted the workers' representatives and that temporary unemployment benefits are also paid. I would also say that the representatives of this company are not concerned with the tax laws of our country, with respect to its social laws and with the future of our workers. I understand that legal proceedings are under way for offences and that justice must be allowed to be done in that context. We will not fail to return to you. We trust you in any case, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u69	Minister, this is a real problem for us. There is the closure fund with capped compensation, which is already not correct. Above all, the employer is protected. Instead of being responsible, the collective fund pays. On the other hand, I agree with what my colleague has just said. At the time of the takeover, this employer was under judicial investigation. How is it possible to let a notorious villain take over a business with the consequences we know today? Mr. Minister, your good intentions are being heard, but we must now take strong action not to have the decisions of these companies have a serious impact on all workers, most of them women, and their families.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u70	Madam President, Minister, many questions have already been raised about restructuring, and they keep coming. The windshield wiper manufacturer Bosch Tien scraped 400 lanes. That's almost half the staff. The high labour costs in our country caused production to be transferred to Serbia. The IT and telecom services company BT Global Services Belgium announced that up to 60 jobs will disappear in Diegem. That news came after FedEx announced that almost 700 jobs in Liège and 47 jobs in Zaventem will disappear. Jobs also disappear at Bekaert and Solvay. We must call this a worrying wave of restructuring, the almost 1,500 jobs that are lost by collective redundancies. It is to be feared that this will be the beginning of much worse, especially as soon as there are facilitations and aid measures are systematically abolished. At the same time, the search by Voka members shows that the companies are less pessimistic than they were six months ago, and may also throw out less than they planned at the start of the corona crisis. Of course, it continues to look at what is really going to happen and what will happen effectively with regard to restructuring. Belgium, which has relatively few headquarters of multinationals, remains, of course, very vulnerable to this type of restructuring wave. I come to my questions in this connection. Firstly, to what extent do you believe that the Corona policy will have an impact on the number of restructurings and closures with collective redundancies? Secondly, do you intend to take further measures to prevent further restructuring or closures? If so, which one? Thirdly, as far as we are concerned, change always works better than job cuts or closures. Are you planning support measures to guide companies towards products or services with future potential? If so, are you open to our proposal to use periods of temporary unemployment to prepare and/or support these changes? Fourthly, and finally, the competitiveness of companies, especially when it comes to export-related products or services, is an important factor in the decision-making process of those companies to reduce, maintain or even expand activities in one place or another. Will you make every effort to ensure that the 1996 law on promoting employment and preventing and safeguarding competitiveness is complied with in the coming years?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u71	Madam President, Mr Anseuw, Mrs Moscufo, the measures taken by this government and the governments at the other levels to support companies facing the consequences of the restrictions imposed in the context of the corona crisis are intended to cushion their economic consequences. This should allow them to bridge this difficult period. I am convinced that these measures will not miss their impact and that we would have had many more redundancies if those measures had not been taken. We must continue to support where necessary in this crisis. We also need to think about restarting and how we can provide targeted support. This debate is already taking place within the government, as is the debate on support measures for affected workers. Some sectors will be able to resume their activities. Some have already resumed it and others will have to undergo a transformation in the medium or long term. This will of course be taken into account in the support and accompanying measures and in the recovery measures. As far as temporary unemployment is concerned, it is already possible to take training during this period and the question of how to improve training during periods of temporary or structural unemployment remains one of our priorities. It was also discussed a few days ago in an interdepartmental conference on employment. As you know, a specific support measure for the travel sector has recently been adopted. Employers who sell package holidays and who have to use part of their staff to fulfill their legal obligations without any income in return may receive a wage subsidy for part of their staff. The legislation under preparation, which will be submitted to you shortly, also provides that these employers must provide training to their staff, both those in active employment and those who are in full temporary unemployment. This may include training aimed at strengthening the necessary skills in the industry itself, but also skills which, more generally, increase their employability. With regard to the travel sector, I would also like to highlight the other conditions that employers are required to obtain assistance. The workers concerned may not be dismissed during the period of granting the aid and the employer will not be able to pay a dividend to its shareholders throughout the year 2021. With regard to redundancies by profitable or very profitable companies, I suggest that you come back to this in a few moments, in the next answers to the questions on restructuring, in particular relating to FedEx. I come to Mr Anseeeuw's question about the interprofessional negotiations and the 1996 law. I think I answered this question in plenary a few days ago. The aim is to ensure that solutions found between the social partners can be implemented as quickly and effectively as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u72	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The aid measures taken by both the federal government and the Länder in recent months are indeed important to bridge a difficult period. I totally agree with that, but I think it is at least as important to check with another pair of glasses, namely the glasses from after corona. How can we prepare the future? I have already made other proposals on wage subsidies, on which I will ask another question later, but here too I think we should start looking at things differently to prepare the future. As far as labour costs are concerned, it is extremely important to control them in our country. The 1996 law has come about for a reason, especially when I look at Flanders, which has a very open economy and where exports are extremely important. This competitiveness, at least in relation to our neighbouring countries, is extremely important in order to maintain and even increase employment. Unless you contradict me now, that is still an important intention of this government. We all have an interest in keeping these wage costs under control. You say that you have already answered that question in plenary. Technically, that's true, but you haven't said much. So have you answered that question yet? Yes and no, but I suspect this is a conscious choice of yours. After all, I dare not suspect you of improvising when giving answers. To be continued, but I would argue in favour of safeguarding the competitiveness of our companies vis-à-vis our neighbouring countries and other countries. If we see that important productions are moving to Serbia, for example, we cannot be blind to that and we cannot pretend that our noses are bleeding. Despite all the support measures, they will not affect the labour cost handicap in our country, which is a problem when it comes to keeping jobs here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u73	I will not dwell on this answer, which is related to the following questions. We agree that we have to look at what's going on in our neighbors. Thus, positive initiatives are being taken to curb the hemorrhage. Italy, for example, applies a ban on dismissal. In the Netherlands, penalties are imposed on companies which lease staff when they have received aid. In Belgium, it was decided not to grant bonuses to companies established in tax havens. For the rest, I believe that the following questions will allow us to explore other issues, such as restructuring at FedEx. On the other hand, I wanted to pay tribute to the translators who are in front of me because sometimes the discussions are really going on very quickly. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u74	Madam Chair, I refer to my written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u75	Madam President, I also refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u76	Madam Chair, I will try to speak a little more slowly, out of respect for the interpreters. If this is not the case, do not hesitate to remind me of the order because I speak, indeed, a little too fast. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the information and consultation phase under the Renault procedure has recently begun within FedEx. During this phase, workers' representatives have the opportunity to formulate proposals to reduce redundancies and, in general, the impact of restructuring. As you are aware, I am not used to interfering in discussions between the social partners and especially when it comes to a Renault procedure, except to ensure that the various stages and conditions of the law are respected. At this stage, therefore, I do not wish to interfere in these discussions. However, please be aware that, in the context of this dossier, we are working with the relevant regional officials, including on the issues that have been raised in connection with your questions, namely the question of subcontractors, the question of the various aids that have been paid, the question of quality employment within and around the airport, as well as on a range of other issues and themes that are more cross-cutting and even forward-looking. As far as subcontractors are concerned, I would like to stress recommendation 28 of the National Labour Council, which specialists are familiar with. If this instrument proves not to be sufficient, the social partners will have to consider a broader and more binding mechanism. I have already had the opportunity to speak in plenary on this aspect. Like you, I'm angry when a company that gets big profits decides to do dry layoffs. However, in a state governed by the rule of law, the government and its ministers are obliged to respect the law. And, for the time being, the latter does not allow for the prohibition of practices such as the one in question. Proposals have been made to limit redundancies in the stock market. But it must be noted that, for the time being, there has been no parliamentary majority to support these texts and to have them adopted. I therefore hope that the social partners will be able to propose balanced solutions as soon as possible. However, the guarantee of a strong and comprehensive social plan appears to be an essential step in this direction for those who would be unfairly affected by this problem. In order to sustain employment, the government has already taken several measures such as temporary unemployment coronavirus. As I have already had the opportunity to say today, we continue to reflect on support measures for companies in difficulty and for workers. I am thinking in particular of particular sectors that have been hit by the crisis in the medium or long term. We want a toolbox, so to speak, to be made available in order to facilitate the proper re-coupling of activities and to minimise social disruption as much as possible. The social partners will obviously be involved in our efforts. In the meantime, our eyes are looking to the future. Although I do not have a crystal ball and, on the other hand, I do not believe in these practices, I can assure you that the employment will have to be more sustainable, in all senses of the word. This is one of our priorities and the intense exchanges we have with the social partners. Moreover, knowing your interest in this issue, I have no doubt that we have an opportunity to talk about it throughout the coming weeks and months. With respect to your more specific question, which relates to the Belgian Cockpit Association's letter to the Prime Minister and myself, this aspect was not foreign to us. The necessary answers will be provided by whom by law as soon as possible. As regards General Electric in Charleroi, the Secretary of State for Recovery and Strategic Investments, Thomas Dermine, and I are also in contact with the representatives of the workers as well as with the various actors involved. Moreover, a meeting is to be held at the end of the week, with Mr Borsus, Walloon Minister for the Economy, as well as various stakeholders on the issue, in order to create prospects for this company and the workers as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u77	Minister, I can hear you. Every day, you repeat your desire to respect social consultation. From our point of view, it's annoying. On the one hand, we obviously share this need, since we also want to respect social consultation. On the other hand, the workers are also waiting for a political relay to the Minister of Employment, in addition when he is a member of the Socialist Party. I can tell you that they are waiting a little more than promises to respect social consultation, especially since you are aware of the difficulties on the ground. FedEx is a multinational company that has made profits. We can't let anything happen. At one point, policy must really intervene: not only will workers be dismissed, but management has the will to impose even greater flexibility on those who remain. In this sector, most people work at night. However, scientific studies show that night work has consequences in terms of flexibility and health of workers; their health is at risk. Women also work at night. When they return home, they often have to start preparing lunch for their children. More flexible than that, you die! At some point, we have to put the ho-ho-ho-ho-ho-ho-ho-ho-ho. All this to fatten shareholders! That's not right! You have a responsibility in this matter. However, I would like to say that there are still positive prospects and hopes. I learned, no later than yesterday, that the workers of FedEx in Italy, after 13 days of strike, got the withdrawal of the plan. It is not so much to you that I now address myself, but to the Belgian workers, to remind them that despite all the pressure they are under, the struggle is paying off. They are, at least in Bierset, leading the struggle in their own way. We continue to encourage them in this direction. Finally, we believe that this is a good opportunity to take stock of this Renault law which, in our view, does not protect enough, in terms of information, but above all in terms of collective interest, for the employment of workers. A review will need to be carried out quickly, perhaps with a costed balance sheet.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u78	Minister, thank you for your answers. For my part, I had a focus on the CPC subsidiary in Herstal, which has just separated from ten employees. The economic situation is known to be difficult for many companies. The government has taken a number of exceptional measures, he said. I would like to say that CPP Belgium has certainly seen a decline in its profitability, but it nevertheless ended 2020 with profits. This society really seems to be sitting on social consultation. Minister, I know you are attentive to the issue of collective redundancies during this crisis. I asked you about FedEx in plenary and you mentioned the possibility of evaluating the Renault law. I think that this is a good basis for improving the situation of workers who are affected by dismissal. In the context of this re-evaluation, it is important that we put in place measures that would discourage all companies from making unfair dismissals. A dismissal should only be justified if the employer is in financial difficulty and proves that he has sought to adapt the employee's work before making his dismissal. I think that, despite everything that happens with corporate bankruptcies, this is not the case with CPP Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u79	Madam President, as an ex-unionist, I would like to ensure that the Minister can occasionally catch his breath between all the questions that are being put to him. I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u80	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for their various questions on a particularly important subject. As you know, for salaried workers, a royal decree of 1963 implements what is known as the system of small unemployment. This is a fairly old regulation whose philosophy was to allow workers to participate in certain events while their professional obligations would normally prevent them. This royal decree sets out the different circumstances and the number of days during which the worker may be absent from work. It is important to stress that this is a minimum regulation. An individual or collective labour agreement may in any case contain provisions which are more favourable than this minimum threshold. It was the wish of the legislator of the time to leave it to the King to set a minimum standard with the possibility, however, of providing more favourable standards within the company or sector according to the needs of the different parties. In the face of a happy event, such as a confessional feast or a marriage, it is relatively easy to determine a day on which the worker will have the right to be absent. On the other hand, in the face of the terrible ordeal of mourning, the number of days of "discharge of circumstance" seems derisory, regardless of the relationship with the deceased person. In this regard, the study recently published by the League of Families calls for an extension of the bereavement leave to a minimum of ten days, with continued pay. I stress and welcome this study, which also calls for public funding to enable the worker who has lost his spouse or child to return gradually to work, with time and workload arrangements, while retaining the full amount of his remuneration. I am convinced that these are particularly interesting leads. I will submit them to social consultation during the consultation on the harmonisation and optimisation of the various systems of leave, as provided for in the government agreement. I believe that this study is an important element which should be able to feed the debate on a somewhat more objective basis than, simply, on the personal considerations of each other. I salute the work of the League of Families. I hope that this will feed into the debate of the social partners during the consultation on this subject of the different systems of leave.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u81	Mr Minister, I do not even wish for the loss of a child or a partner to my greatest enemy, but that happens and immerses many families in mourning. I was a trade unionist in a company for twenty-five years and in a sector in which the trade union is very strong, where the collective agreement grants more than three days for mourning; I cannot even mention any of them. I therefore believe that there is a responsibility here too, in Parliament, to develop more possibilities in this area. Grieving leave isn't a leave of absence. I think the word 'leave' is already wrong, because leave means to me that I am sitting under a palm tree with a cocktail, and that is not mourning leave at all. Three days of mourning leave is simply absurdly short. In reality, 70% to 80% of the grieving people are covered by disease legislation. That should raise the question of who pays for it. The way we deal with people is not a solution. Members of Vooruit have a proposal ready at Flemish level to extend the funeral leave to ten days. It's nice that they're filing that. However, I believe that a deceased child must be equally valuable to families everywhere, regardless of whether the family lives in Flanders, Wallonia or Brussels. I therefore ask you once again to look at the matter. The granting of mourning leave has an enormous value for those who have to say goodbye to a dear family member.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u82	Minister, thank you for your answer. It is indeed a very difficult subject. It is all the more valuable to hear the League of Families communicate about this investigation because indeed, when people are affected by the death of a family member or a child, it is really not at that time that we have the strength to fight for time and space to be able to mourn. It is important to hear this association that shares this reality, explains it and comes with different leads. Of course, this special leave is always derisory, you said. We do not grieve in three days or in ten days, but at least a few more days would resolve administrative issues, financial problems and give us the opportunity to breathe. You stress that this is an interesting path and that you will submit it to social consultation as part of the work on the harmonization of holidays. Thank you. It is important that this statement by the League of Families be heard. Why not organise meetings and dialogue with the social partners? I am certainly glad that you have heard them, but also that this relay which we have been able to make to Parliament has succeeded and that you will give it a useful follow-up. Thank you already, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u83	Madam President, since my party has been mentioned, I would like to mention that our bill on the extension of leave for mourning has been tabled in the Chamber. Anyone who loses a loved one must be treated in the same way. Arrival shouldn't make a difference.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u84	It is true that several bills have been tabled to that effect and, as the minister said, we will come back to this topic soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u85	Madam Chair, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. With respect to mystery shopping, I have prepared a bill to clarify the issue of jurisdiction at the level of social inspection. This bill still needs to be the subject of various consultations before it is submitted to Parliament, to your analysis and to your sagacity. In order to better identify the mechanisms behind discrimination, it is also desirable to improve the data warehouse. The data warehouse serves as a basis for the socio-economic monitoring of the FPS Employment and Unia. The latest results show, among other things, that structural discrimination not only affects access to employment, but also discriminates against people of foreign origin who have been working in a particular sector for a long time. In other words, the monitoring shows that the problem of the sticky floor does not only affect women. We have looked carefully at Unia's recommendations. Several issues will be further analysed, such as the approximation of legislation on well-being at work. It will, of course, be useful to consult the social partners on this. They can provide valuable input on how best to achieve results in the prevention of all forms of discrimination. I will certainly contact my colleague, the Secretary of State for Gender Equality, Mrs Sarah Schlitz.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u86	Minister, I welcome the initiatives you are taking. Again and again, these reports show that the situation is not improving at all and that there really is a structural problem of discrimination, whether it is about access to work or on the ground. It concerns different forms of discrimination, but they have one thing in common: people are excluded on the basis of who they are. There's nothing worse, there's nothing deeper in one's heart and self-confidence than being excluded and not getting opportunities, just on the basis of who one is. I look forward to the bill on mystery shopping. Improving that data is also an important ground to start that mystery shopping. Preventive action must also be taken to ensure that there is cooperation and that all people, regardless of who they are, are given equal opportunities in the workplace.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u87	We look forward to your bill. We'll read it carefully. As has been said, barometers are not good. If we continue at this rate, we will not move forward. We have to go much faster. There is also a link to the lack of jobs. It is not only in the workplace that there is discrimination. It is also necessary to work in parallel with job creation in order not to create this competition. We are pleased that you are working with the Secretary of State on this issue. Do you not intend to hold hearings at committee level as part of your project?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u88	Thank you for your questions. We have already had an opportunity to discuss this during the current affairs debate on 12 January. It is a fact that the situation at CAPAC remains a matter of concern, and I am fully aware of this. The month of January is usually complicated, and this year is obviously no exception. CAPAC staff are making considerable efforts to address the backlog and to process the large number of applications submitted. Some of them are almost at a standstill. I would really like to avoid shooting at the ambulance, if you will allow me the expression. CAPAC staff have worked hard since the beginning of the crisis and have been confronted with an unprecedented influx of cases to be dealt with. He worked on weekends, during the holidays and during the holidays, and I would like to greet them again for their commitment and dedication. Of course, we hope and look forward to an improvement in the situation in the next few days in this month of February. As regards the various figures you asked me about, the number of payments is as follows: 139,779 payments were made in November 2020, 99,016 in December 2020 and 84,811 in January 2021. As regards the number of cases still to be processed, the figures are as follows: there are still 2,059 cases (or 1.4%) to be processed by November 2020, but 500 cases have been introduced since the beginning of 2021 for this month of November. For December 2020, there remain 3,994 (or 4%) cases to be processed and, by January 2021, work is still under way, but at this stage, approximately 10% of the cases to be processed remain. As I have already indicated, these figures should be examined with caution, as some files were submitted late. I have just given you the example of the 500 cases introduced this year for the month of November 2020. For example, 750 cases were introduced in February of this year for the month of December 2020. I would point out that not all files necessarily give rise to payment. For telephony, it seems that the pressure is starting to decrease. As of 1 February, there were 27,271 calls. On 2 February, they amounted to 24,336, on 3 February, to 24,652. Then, from 4 February, there was a decrease: 18,332 that same day and 11,244 the next day. With regard to the Corona provision, I urged the government to allow CAPAC to appeal this year, as it was able to do in 2020. I am convinced of the absolute need for such a measure. The use of this provision by CAPAC and other services is currently under consideration within the government and, in particular, with the Secretary of State for the Budget. We hope that this request will be successful in the next few days. In addition, in consultation with ONEM and CAPAC, I decided to grant a new one-month deadline for the file verification procedure. In this way, we free up working time for CAPAC's expert staff, so that they can treat as a matter of priority the most complicated files that require an additional investment compared to the so-called "classical" files and therefore require the ability to mobilize the most trained and expert staff for this purpose. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, the situation remains worrying – and I am concerned as Minister of Labour. There is a real need to ensure that all those entitled to an allowance can benefit from it as quickly as possible. I still wanted to remind you of the unprecedented situation that CAPAC faced, like other public services. His teams have redoubled their efforts to deal with this mass never seen of files. The figures sometimes hide complicated administrative situations, especially when some applications are submitted late, thus inflating the number of files from previous months. That, ladies and gentlemen, is the answers I could give you today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u89	Minister, thank you for taking stock of the challenges facing CAPAC. I hope you understand that the recurrence of my questions about these late payments has nothing to do with any intention of shooting at the ambulance. Each time, I asked you about how you could intervene to make the mission of CAPAC workers sustainable. This is obviously essential. I made it clear in each of my speeches on this subject. You indicate that the situation is unprecedented. We are fully aware of that. I can only note with you that, under such circumstances, many agents are doing absolutely everything they can. Besides, the numbers you're giving us show that everyone is really putting their own. I was asking you about how you could have mobilised the reserve covid 2021. For me, this is an essential piece of support that you can demonstrate to CAPAC workers by mobilizing additional resources, possibly from headquarters. I would also like to draw your attention to one aspect that raises many questions: the exchange of information between entities. I draw your attention to the exchange of information between entities, about which I receive a great deal of questioning. It is a huge waste of time, whether at CAPAC or ONEM, while people are waiting for a payment. Sometimes an authorization is given but payment is not made. You are convinced that it is necessary to call on the covid reserve. I am also fully convinced of this, and I invite you to plead with all your weight to obtain reinforcements for CAPAC so that people who are entitled to an allowance can receive it in time and in time and so that people who work at CAPAC can work in the right conditions and continue to do their job well.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u90	Ladies and gentlemen, I invite us to remain vigilant on our respective timings.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u91	Minister, I have no doubt that you are aware of the situation. I don't have all the solutions, but if you put the first, the second, the third, the fourth, it's high time to pass the fifth. I don't have a full solution. I fully agree with my colleague; I hope you did not understand that we wanted to shoot the ambulance, but we will not let go, minister. Of course, there is no question of questioning the work of staff. It seems clear to me that with the number of additional people, the workload is enormous. It's infernal! What we have on the ground is that we really need simplification. I am not the specialist, but we need to think about greater simplification. Some feedback also indicates that sometimes it is the employer who does not properly complete the documents. People are then repackaged and asked to complete a second document. It also seems to be more complicated for part-time workers. As a result, I wonder if we should go back to a system where people are paid before we see how to settle the case. Otherwise, we're not gonna make it. Minister, what about your commitments? I have here the testimony of a gentleman I don't have time to read. He says he hasn't had anything in months and he can't get someone on the phone. Minister, the situation is really serious. Anyway, you really have to pass the fifth!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u92	Colleagues, I consider social dialogue to be particularly important. I have said it before and I repeat it today: it is one of the fundamental pillars of our social model. A very important element in the social dialogue is the interprofessional agreement. The negotiation of this interprofessional agreement is an important but also complicated time in general, and probably even more so this year in view of the socio-economic situation. It is important because it defines the maximum margin for the evolution of the wage cost for the two years that cover it. It also allows for special measures for employment, measures to combat the wage gap between men and women and the objectives related to the training of workers, which we have already had the opportunity to talk about today. Of course, such an agreement is not negotiated and is not easily concluded. This requires a subtle balance between workers' representatives and employers' representatives. This balance is still difficult to find, and it is even more so this year in the light of the circumstances. It is clear that the 1996 law as amended in 2017 does not simplify things this year. I understand your impatience, and I share it, but I think it is also essential to allow time for social consultation. The figures of the Central Economic Council were given later this year. The social partners must analyse them and determine how they can propose solutions. I invited them to try to find creative solutions. I am willing to implement creative solutions from the social partners. I stress that these are creative solutions, because I think that is what the current situation requires. I also said it in plenary. I think I repeated it again last week: respect for social dialogue is to allow it to take place and to ensure that it takes place in the best possible conditions. I don't think social consultation is taking place in the government. I don't think it's happening either in Parliament or through the press. I repeat, these discussions must take place between the social partners, directly; and, to ensure the serenity of the debates, in a relative discretion. Of course, as Minister of Labour, I am prepared to support the social partners and to help them put oil in the workings, not oil on the fire. I'll always avoid doing that. It is important for me, and it is my responsibility, as Minister of Labour, to ensure that social consultation can take place as best as possible. I am pleased that a meeting of the Group of Ten will be scheduled tomorrow afternoon. I think this is an important step. I hope that it will allow both the continuation of negotiations on certain points and the beginning of negotiations on others. With regard to the more specific issues relating to welfare envelopes, the social partners are aware that they must submit a proposal for allocation to the government quickly. We know that the legislated deadlines have long been exceeded; but we wanted, with the government as a whole and particularly with my colleagues Karine Lalieux, Frank Vandenbroucke and David Clarinval, to take into account the particular situation this year and give them some time. But we still reminded them of the need to be able to formulate a proposal for the distribution of these welfare envelopes as soon as possible. We have also, through the Prime Minister, recalled the government's priorities, which are set out in our agreement, namely, the increase in social benefits through the welfare envelopes. The fact is that this is important to us, and that a set of priorities are included in our government agreement. We have reminded the social partners of this. Finally, with regard to the question of the minimum wage, I would like to remind you that in our country it is determined in a collective labour agreement. It is therefore the prerogative of the social partners, although, of course, we are particularly attentive to it. Finally, with regard to the last question I was asked about the actions undertaken by certain social partners, in which I was asked to position myself in relation to the way in which each of them is contemplating negotiation, I do not think it is up to me, as Minister of Labour, to make judgments and to inform the social partners - or some of them - how to negotiate. I think that is also the respect for social consultation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u93	Minister, the first two sentences of your answer are indeed recognizable. As soon as it comes to the wage standard, the social partners will be dealt with immediately. It's all very well for that. It is your position and that of the government. I will not repeat everything we said earlier this afternoon, but all these questions are of course related to this. When it comes to restructuring and collective redundancies, it has to do with the competitiveness of our companies. I hope that there will be an agreement whereby everyone around the table realizes that it is a common struggle. If the workers' organisations want good jobs for their members and the citizens of this country, they must also realise that the competitiveness of our companies is a prerequisite for this. If it is not fulfilled, there can be no sustainable jobs, let alone an increase in employment. In terms of competitiveness, we have already made a major catching-up with this country over the past six years in relation to our neighbouring countries, but there is still the wage handicap. I would also like to point out that higher labour costs per hour worked do not always mean that the employee's net wage is always higher, especially for the hours actually worked, a problem which is very strong in this country compared to the countries around us. A large part of the wage is taxed in this country. Perhaps that is also one of the parameters to be taken into account in the debate. If we want to strike a balance, we must also dare to look at taxation and beyond what is happening today. In my question on trade union actions against wage standards, I also referred to a very clear opinion from the High Council for Employment. I quote: 'In order to help severely affected companies recover from the corona crisis, they should be given the opportunity to refrain from the national negotiated wage premium over the next two years'. I asked you very clearly what your point of view is. I understand that you rejected that oral question by saying that it is not up to you to judge certain actions of the social partners. I don't mind that either. But it was one of the concrete questions, in particular what you think of the opinion of the High Council for Employment. I suspect you have a strong opinion on this on behalf of the government. I'm very interested in that. I would very much appreciate it if you could give me some further explanation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u94	Minister, there's one thing we can do to join you on. In fact, in the context of this negotiation, it is up to the social partners to decide between themselves how they will manage. However, each time politics has its own vision of things. You can see that in this committee. The opposition on the right shoots you to the right, while the opposition on the left shoots you to the left. And we're asking you to position yourself. Our point of view is clear. During this health crisis, workers were considered heroes. They must now be allowed to negotiate freely at the level of their sector. For this reason, the wage standard must be indicative. For your part, you can play an important role in this balance. Otherwise, you'll find yourself facing this thesis that we've known for centuries. I want to talk about the thesis of competitiveness. Social history shows us that already two centuries ago, when the workers were fighting to exercise their activity eight hours a day, the employers, relayed by some political parties that were a little different from today, shouted that the companies would close. After two centuries, this job blackmail still exists, and we don't want to get into this game. That is why we urge you to take a stand. It should be noted that some sectors have made huge profits. If we take the example of Colruyt, we are talking about a quarter of a billion profits. So there's money in this country. Trade union organisations must be allowed to negotiate in favour of an indicative margin. They are not crazy, they are not going to demand wage increases where employers are in trouble with a risk of bankruptcy. That's not how it goes. As far as the wellness envelope is concerned, I do not know how you proceed when a meeting is organized with the quartet. Indeed, Minister Clarinval made it clear that the welfare envelope should be included in all salaries, which does not correspond to the position of the PTB or the position of the unions. Indeed, the wellness envelope is not a gift, it's just a catch-up. So we really rely on you to press the "indicative standard" button again and again.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u95	Minister, thank you for your answers. I understand the discretion in which you want to position yourself, on the best way to reach an agreement. I respect that discretion. Fifteen days ago, we had the opportunity to develop our views on each other. I had the opportunity to share with you what I felt it was necessary to bring into this negotiation. I note that you could give guidance on how you intend to use the circulars, how you intend to use these creative solutions you talk about. You don't. I respect that position. I'll come back and ask you. You may be able to tell us more as things are put in place. I hope, with you, that this option of discretion will really put oil in the workings. I will not talk about the "button" of the indicative standards, but the circular could, in my view, be a way of bringing an indicative dimension, in any case for those sectors that can. But I respect the discretion you want to keep today on the state of the negotiations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u96	Minister, my question was first addressed to Mrs Verlinden, who asked that you answer it. It concerns the Ministerial Order of 28 October 2020 on emergency measures to limit the spread of covid-19 and to allow ONSS to cross health data relating to covid-19 on behalf of contact centres, health inspections and mobile teams in order to support tracing, review of clusters and control of spread within communities in particular. By ministerial decree of 12 January 2021, this possibility was extended to the data of all services and institutions responsible for combating covid-19 and to all services and institutions responsible for monitoring compliance. According to Ms Verlinden, there is an extension of the scope of Article 22 of this Ministerial Order of 28 October 2020 by the Ministerial Order of 12 January 2021 following a request from your cabinet. As you know, there have been a lot of questions on the part of the academic community about the legality of this measure, its objective and its potential drifts in the absence of any public parliamentary debate on this extension, although many have been asking questions on this subject lately. I would like some clarification. Article 22 of the Constitution states that the elements of processing of personal data carried out by the State must be provided for by law. With regard to the processing provided for in article 22 of the ministerial decree of October, as amended in January, what law makes it possible to provide for such processing and data cross-checking in the ministerial decree as amended? The Data Protection Authority (DPA) and the Human Rights League have spoken. It would appear that appeals to the Council of State are being considered following the extension of the scope of the ministerial decree. How do you justify this extension, which potentially allows the ONSS to perform multiple data cross-checks, called datamining and datamatching, with a very important set of data? It may be possible to imagine that health data would be cross-referenced with data on social fraud. Of course, it is important to combat social fraud, but a legal basis is needed. Here I wonder with others on this legal basis. My second question concerns the role of the Information Security Committee in extending the scope of Article 22 of the Ministerial Order of 28 October 2020. Indeed, the law of 5 September 2018 establishing the Information Security Committee allows this committee to authorize all transfers of data between institutions and creates two datawarehouses, one in tax matters and the other in social matters. If we read the Ministerial Order of 28 October 2020 in conjunction with the Act of 5 September 2018 establishing the Information Security Committee, it could be concluded that the Committee could authorize the reuse of all data by any state entity for any purpose, without the control or approval of Parliament. Since the deliberations of the Information Security Committee are not being debated in Parliament, there are a lot of concerns, Minister. That is why I allow myself to ask you all these questions on the legal basis and on the limits placed on this datamining and datamatching. Recent developments in the Netherlands have highlighted possible drifts. I will therefore be happy to hear from you on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u97	Madam Member, the Ministerial Order allows ONSS to cross-check certain personal data in order to achieve specific objectives. In this context, the Committee on Information Security (CSI) must always ensure respect for the fundamental right, respect for the protection of privacy and the legislation concerning the processing of personal data, which includes rules on the CSI. In this case, the ISC deliberated on September 1, 2020 and January 18 of this year. In its analysis, the Committee shall systematically verify whether the conditions referred to in the GDPR – in particular with regard to purpose, proportionality and security – are indeed fulfilled. Of course, the CSI is not entitled to derogate from the GDPR or the law. In addition, the processing of personal data by public bodies or bodies entrusted with a mission of general interest must be in full compliance with the tasks assigned to them under the rules in force. The CSI can therefore never act in the place of the legislator. Its decisions can be legally challenged and monitored by the Data Protection Authority. Although the deliberations of the CSI are not debated in Parliament, they come from independent members who have been appointed by the same Parliament because of their expertise in this area. These deliberations must also be published on the website of the Social Security Square Bank, the eHealth platform and the website of the Federal Public Service Strategy and Support. They are therefore transparent and accessible to the public. Finally, in order to fully understand what the ONSS is doing on the basis of the Ministerial Order of 12 January 2021, a distinction must be made between support for the system of tracing contacts and support for social inspection services. With regard to support for the contact tracing system, the Interfederal Testing and Tracing Committee asked ONSS last summer to support the tracing of contacts of regional health inspections. In practice, contamination data are linked to employment data in order to better detect potential sources of contamination in the workplace and, if necessary, to act as quickly as possible. The ONSS therefore processes the case indexes – in other words, the contaminations – communicated by Sciensano and makes the link with the employment data, in compliance with the legal and regulatory provisions as well as the deliberations of the CSI. With regard to support for inspection services, I have asked for better exchange of information so as to ensure better monitoring of quarantine rules at the workplace. The ONSS already has access to certain data from passenger tracking forms (PLFs), which can already be used in practice to assess the risk of the possible presence in the workplace of persons who have to comply with the quarantine obligation imposed by the Regions. If people are in the workplace when they should observe about 40, they will be reminded of the rules and asked to leave the workplace. The ONSS inspectors can also verify compliance in companies with the obligations imposed to limit the spread of covid-19. However, since the quarantine requirement is regulated by regional decrees, federal inspectors cannot establish pro justitia or impose fines. Their intervention in the context of compliance with quarantine is limited to reminding the rules and asking that those who must respect quarantine leave the workplace.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u98	Minister, thank you for your answer. I am not sure that the law establishing the Information Security Committee and appointing its members is sufficient to allow for a constitutionally appropriate legal basis for the extension of the ministerial decree. I imagine the debate will come back. I imagine that we all have the same concern to ensure the protection of privacy and respect for our rule of law. There is always this difficult balance between enforcement and privacy. How far are we going to control where people who have to respect a quarantine are going? Should they be monitored through their telephone data, for example, and whether they leave their homes or go to their workplace while in quarantine? I believe that, like me, we want to avoid intervening as some states in the East do, which are fighting fairly well against the spread of covid but which do not respect individual freedoms, fundamental rights and privacy as we wish to do.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u99	Madam Member, thank you for your question. In order to qualify for unemployment benefits, the worker must be able to justify a certain number of working or assimilated days, such as days covered by sickness insurance or temporary unemployment, during a reference period prior to his claim for benefit. In the case of a worker under 36 years of age, it will be necessary to prove 312 working days or similar days during a reference period of 21 months. In certain circumstances, the duration of this period may be extended, for example if the unemployed person has been self-employed during this period, has continued some studies or has remained inactive in order to care for the education of a child under the age of 6. If the worker is over 36 years of age, the number of days required is higher and the reference period longer. In addition, if it proves at least half the days required during the period, previous working days may also be taken into account. The reference period was not extended during the Coronavirus crisis. Nevertheless, I will remain attentive to the situation of job seekers and, if necessary, I will certainly submit proposals to the government to ensure that they are not penalized.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u100	Minister, thank you for your answer. It is important to be able to take account of each situation, particularly the reference period which requires proof of unemployment benefits, even though many companies use temporary Corona unemployment. In my view, this should be improved with a view to greater coherence. In any case, I invite you to work on it. I am thinking in particular of the under 36s, because it is about this category that we have been strongly questioned. Indeed, it is important that they are not so heavily penalized, since it has been a year since the economy has, as you know, been slowing down. I therefore invite you to work on this and even to come forward with proposals for us to discuss it in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u101	Since March 2020, Mrs Samyn, the FSO, the Fund for the Compensation of workers made redundant in the event of Company Closure, has proactively recruited four additional staff. At present, there is still a recruitment in 2021. Recruitments took place within the existing budgetary framework. In 2020, an increased priority was given to automation. Since August 2020, bankruptcy files have been created automatically in the FSO's IT application on the basis of data from the Crossroads Bank of Enterprises, provided through the FPS Economy. In addition, the FSO makes available an e-F1 application to submit employees' claims for compensation electronically. In December 2020, the FSO conducted a awareness campaign to submit as many claims as possible via the e-F1 application. The FSO's strategy aims to standardise and automate the rules on the calculation of the most frequently requested contractual fees. This standardization and automation in the computer application of the FSO have been achieved for the calculation of the termination fee, the late pay, the holidays and the year-end premium. The employees of the FSO are trained and use this computer application.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u102	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I also had a question about the proactivity for the bankruptcy wave that is to come. Last year they didn't have that much work. Is that service well prepared for that? I did not receive an answer to that question. Is there anything else you can say about that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u103	Madam President, I think I answered.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u104	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am pleased to hear that computerisation has been carried out. Last year and the year before, it was not yet on track. It is easier that the service is also accessible by automated means. For the sake of proactivity, it is certainly advisable that the service prepares itself for the virtually certain increase in the workload that will take place from the moment when the courts pronounce the bankruptcies. The fund must therefore be fully operationally prepared. The task for which the FSO stands will be enormous and we hope, in the interests of the right holders, that the service will perform its tasks properly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u105	Madam President, Mrs Vanrobaeys, first of all I would like to point out that the GEMS opinions are in principle addressed to the Consultation Committee. It is therefore primarily up to the ministers concerned to decide whether to follow the opinion and how. The generic guide, the latest version of which dates from December 2020, refers to this. It states that the use of mouth masks should take into account the general measures taken by the federal, regional and local authorities. It also states that those authorities should be involved in determining the measures in the companies resulting from the risk analysis. In the opinions of 5 and 19 January, the GEMS indeed mentions wearing a mouth mask in indoor areas where they cooperate with at least another person. However, the GEMS also mentions other prevention measures related to work. It also includes maximizing telework, installing physical barriers between persons when distance cannot be kept and taking hygiene measures. Mouth masks alone are not enough. This is in line with the philosophy of the generic guide. The guide provides employers with an overview of prevention measures so that employers can take appropriate preventive measures on the basis of risk analysis. Mouth masks can of course form part of this, but will often not suffice. The whole range of prevention measures is important and, above all, they are adapted to the specific risks associated with the virus and the specific working conditions at a particular place. These shall be determined in consultation with the Committee on Prevention and Protection at Work and the Prevention Service. At last Friday's Consultation Committee, it was agreed that the GEMS opinion on the masks at the workplace would be aligned with the competent services of the FOD WASO and the High Council for Prevention and Protection at Work. If necessary, the generic guide will be updated. This is happening right now.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u106	Thank you, Minister, for your clear answer, which makes it clear once again. There was an advice from the GEMS and afterwards followed the same advice from the RAG, which got all the TV newsreels. In the long run, it will be confusing for employees and employers to know exactly what obligations they have to meet and who decides what. The opinion of the GEMS is submitted to the Consultation Committee and in the meantime the generic guide applies and the protocols must be complied with. We must strive to protect everyone as well as possible, especially those who need to be in the workplace and cannot work telework. The measures must be complied with as closely as possible. That is in everyone's interest, but I am pleased to hear that the FOD WASO, in consultation with the High Council for Prevention and Protection at Work, will consider how these opinions can be further implemented and clearly communicated, so that there can be no confusion.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u107	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, well-being at work is covered extensively in the coalition agreement and in my employment policy paper. I would like to make a very strong commitment to this legislature, in cooperation with Minister Vandenbroucke, Minister De Sutter and Minister Clarinval. Social dialogue has once again proved useful at all levels, even during the corona crisis, in terms of well-being and safety at work. During the months of February and March we evaluate the burn-out project on primary prevention of the National Labour Council together with the social partners. In order to address the issues of psychosocial and other health risks at work as effectively as possible, we want to give the social partners every opportunity in this legislature. They must be able to play their full role both at interprofessional, sectoral and company level. The social partners are best aware of the situation in the workplace. So it is obvious to me to involve them and to look together for the most efficient solutions. Informal discussions are currently taking place between my cabinet and various stakeholders on the subject. The current system of reduction of social security contributions in the event of a collective reduction in working time is evaluated, as provided for in the government agreement. As far as the interprofessional agreement is concerned, it seems clear to me that I will defend all the decisions of that agreement. The subject of the long-term sick is also a shared competence with my colleague, Minister Vandenbroucke. I repeat what is stated in the coalition agreement. We will first invest in better management and organisation of a return-to-work policy in general and formal reintegration pathways in particular. In addition, we will consult with the regions for better cooperation, support and guidance. In particular, we want to focus on positive incentives, with awareness and incentives. My particular attention will go to extra vulnerable people and businesses. Once that has been done, we also want to see how we are getting the bad students into the classroom. Responding to employers is a possible path.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u108	Minister, my question was discussed in plenary last week, after which I received an answer from Minister Vandenbroucke. I am rather glad that, unlike Mr Vandenbroucke, you did not refer us to the Regions. In any case, some structural measures must be taken urgently to avoid facing half a million long-term patients. I am thinking in particular of the issue of pre-pensions and the axis of arduous occupations. Flexibility of working time is a fairly important cause for us. You say you want to reform night work, but I don't think that's the way to go. There is also the adjustment of work at the end of a career, especially for all these women who work in the sectors of cleaning, distribution and care and who are confronted with musculoskeletal disorders. The second aspect of my reply concerns your assessment of Maggie De Block's policy, which is strongly criticized by trade union organisations. Although this project is described as "social reintegration" or "reintegration into work", it has the effect of causing very many dismissals for cases of force majeure, in the absence of suitable work. So I would like to know if you intend to break up with this policy and rather support people who want to return to work under acceptable conditions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u109	Madam President, Minister, the figures are hallucinating. But they're no surprise, we've seen it coming for a while. The figures also show that the increase is particularly high in the number of people who are mentally ill. I have already said it in the context of your policy statement: there is little point in people with burn-out or mentally ill, waving all kinds of sticks behind the door and forcing them, or making a firing machine. Of course, it has to do with workload. When you have a burn-out and want to return to the workplace, you just need to have a great deal of confidence between the patient and the employer, between the patient and the colleagues. After all, a number of prejudices must be put aside. In this sense, I look forward with you to the evaluation of the burn-out projects, by February or March, set up by the National Labour Council. We will be able to draw important lessons from these projects. They can indeed be taken into account in new initiatives to give people who are mentally difficult the chance to return to work that is feasible for them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u110	Minister, this is a bit of the same logic that we discussed earlier with companies that make profits. I went to an action that the workers organized. They decided to score with 78 hours of strike when they learned the restructuring. On the spot, the workers explained that in the discussions with the chiefs and managers, there was no evidence of such a decision. The company had even hired temporary workers that it had trained. It has transformed their contracts into fixed-term contracts. The following week, she decided to dismiss the ten persons on an indeterminate contract. There is also a particular way in which social consultation is not respected and there is a genuine desire to put trade union organisations aside in the reflection. In addition, we have just learned on-line that a restructuring is planned in AB Inbev in Jupille, where about 50 redundancies will also take place. The information just fell. In relation to all these measures, I know that with your party, you have a bill to prohibit dismissals from companies that make profits. We also have a proposal that goes in this direction. We're ready to join yours for a debate in Parliament. Indeed, the bleeding really needs to be stopped.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u111	Madam President, Madam Member, thank you for your question on this specific subject of CPC Herstal, which, since you mentioned it, is overflowing with other companies mentioned. Maybe I'll go back to the situation of CPC Herstal first. I have for information that the social dialogue would have resumed on Thursday, February 4, after a strike of several days, as you mentioned. This dialogue, as you said, is not easy. A management response is expected shortly. I think the union representatives proposed credible and serious alternatives to the dry layoffs announced by management. Like the workers' representatives, I also expect this response from management as soon as possible. It is a matter of the future of this aviation company of the Hauts-Sarts, that these constructive proposals be taken into consideration as they deserve. As Minister of Labour, I am not going to interfere in this negotiation and in this social consultation, but – as I said – I think that the alternative proposals put forward by the union representatives are credible and serious proposals and that they deserve attention and a detailed response from management.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u112	Minister, like you, I see that the struggle is paying off. Seventy-two hours of work stoppage for management to put people around the table. It's still strong. Really, congratulations to those workers who responded to the quarter turn. It's one thing. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, as I said earlier, trade union organisations are responsible. I also hope that they will find the best formula to get out of it. But there are real fears that these ten dismissals will be the first ten. You don't want to interfere. There's one aspect I understand. But you mustn't hide behind that either. At some point, it will be necessary to come with sanctions and to take a political step to bring this to an end. Otherwise, it is every time the iron pot against the pot of earth. We really count on you to support those workers who make sacrifices to rip out a little bit of social dialogue. I really want to insist on that. We will come back with our proposal. We'll give you a hand on the bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u113	Thank you, Mrs. Moscufo, for that hand.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u114	Madam President, can you tell me how many questions we are going to deal with first?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u115	Minister, what time do you intend to leave us?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u116	Madam President, I had planned for 6:00 p.m. on my agenda, but I suggest that we go through with it, if everyone agrees.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u117	That is difficult because it was said earlier that we would work until 6 p.m. So I've got other things planned, and if we were to go on now, I'd be in trouble. After this question, I propose that we end it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u118	I think going to the end is a little complicated, so there are still a few questions. However, as many members are still present, we could still address the issue of telework. And we would stop at the question of temporary unemployment corona. What do you think, Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u119	Madam President, I am at the disposal of the committee. It will give me the pleasure to start the next meeting with Mr Anseeuw.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u120	Madam President, we would still be here for more than half an hour. I really can't do that anymore. At the beginning of the afternoon, 6 p.m. was said. I have been committed to this and it is difficult for me to ask any more questions. I propose that we stop before item 33.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u121	All right, Mr. Anseew, so that's what I was proposing. So we'll start with you next time. Is this suitable for everyone? All right.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u122	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u123	Madam President, I am pleased to note that the level of conciliation in your committee is important. That is, indeed, very positive. Minister, my question is about support for paid leave in the Horeca area. I imagine that, like me, you meet many entrepreneurs from closed sectors, including the Horeca, which is in great difficulty. At the end of last year, the federal government allocated EUR 168 million to provide new support to the Horeca sector in order to pay for year-end premiums and paid leave. According to some information provided to me, certain amounts of this envelope may still be available. But I have no certainty about that. In doing so, Minister, can you give me an account of the situation with regard to this budget of EUR 168 million? Is it planned to renew this amount or to provide for another amount, if all payments (thirteenth month and paid leave) could not be covered for the sector in question? What do you intend to do if the above envelope is not sufficient? Thank you, Mr. Vanden Burre, for your question. It has obviously been found that this is the Committee on Social Concertation. The discussions were therefore courteous and the President tried, as far as possible, to ensure that all questions could be asked. It sometimes gives a little more time to allow Members to arrive, as was the case with you as you see it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u124	Without favouritism, I specify it and in the broadest possible consultation. You do well to acknowledge the work of the President.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u125	Mr President, to answer your question more specifically, Mr President, the €160 million grant to the Horeca Social Fund, to which you referred and which was decided on my proposal by the government in the course of last year, is exclusively intended to compensate for the lack of payments of the contribution for the financing of the end-of-year 2020 premium for employees in the Horeca sector. So far, the Fund has not informed me of any shortfall in this allocation to cover this expenditure, but a report on how the grant has been used is planned for the end of March in agreement with the Fund's managers. Contrary to what you indicate, the assimilation of annual holidays is not covered by this grant. In accordance with the agreement of the social partners, the Government has set aside two additional envelopes of EUR 93.58 million to compensate for this cost: one for employers of workers and the other for employers of employees with employee status. These envelopes were implemented by the Act of 20 December 2020. As we have committed ourselves to it, if the social partners agree on other terms, the government will of course consider how best to implement the terms of the agreements that will come soon and possibly find ways to finance these various agreements.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u126	Thank you for your kind words from the minister and my group leader. I had to point it out.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u127	Minister, you have done well to take stock of the situation and to recall all the figures and budgets released above all. These are very good measures. It will be important to see to what extent, together with the social partners, additional efforts will not have to be made, since we know that in the coming weeks paid leave will have to be paid out by the sectors for employees. We will follow this file with interest.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u128	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the telework at home that we are talking about in the current context is largely regulated, on the one hand, by the provisions on home work in the Labour Contracts Act and, on the other hand, by the Collective Labour Agreement (CTC) No. 85 of the National Labour Council (NCT) of 2005. In addition, the law on feasible and manageable work also contains a provision on occasional telework. Thus, telework is clearly rooted in our labour law, although there are still some questions about the adaptation and interpretation of this right to telework at home. A worker in a telework situation at home is always protected by mandatory labour law rules, which must be respected. The new collective agreement negotiated within the NTC deals in particular with the situation of so-called mandatory or highly recommended telework, but in so doing relies to a large extent on the existing legal framework. As soon as the social partners ask me, I will make this collective labour agreement compulsory by royal decree. It will therefore be binding on all employers. If they fail to comply, sanctions may be imposed. The issue of disconnection will be addressed in a future evaluation. NTC Opinion 2195 accompanying the CTC explicitly states that such an in-depth assessment is planned. In this regard, it should be noted in particular that the current new CTC is limited in duration and will end no later than 31 December of this year. The necessary assessments should be completed by then. Any accident which occurs to an employee during and through the performance of the contract of employment and which causes injury is and must be regarded as an accident at work. As with other industrial accidents, the evidence gathered is very important. In the above-mentioned opinion, the CNT requests that the Workers' Compensation Management Committee once again confirm this position. As you know, Fedris falls within the competence of the Minister of Social Affairs, I invite you to address your questions on this to my excellent colleague Frank Vandenbroucke. Statbel, the Belgian statistical office which is dependent on the SPF Economy, has telework figures based on the labour force survey. This is an annual socio-economic survey by household sample. These figures relate only to 2019. It shows that in 2019, 18.9% of workers sometimes or usually worked at home. In 1999, this figure was 7.4 per cent. We can therefore see a significant development in this area, but quite understandable, given the evolution of means and tools of communication. All the information is available on Statbel's website, i.e. statbel.fgov.be. We do not have figures on the use of telework or telework allowances. This is an agreement concluded at company level or between the employer and the worker, knowing that the employer is not required to report it. Circular 2020/C/100 of 14 July 2020 on employer-specific expenditure on telework concerns the possibility for an employer to grant, under certain conditions, a flat-rate telework allowance to workers who carry out telework on a regular and structural basis, i.e. at least five days a month, in order to cover the expenses of those workers who are dependent on the employer. This allowance of up to EUR 129.48 per month constitutes, in the case of beneficiaries, a reimbursement of expenses specific to the employer which are not taxable. This circular falls within the competence of the Minister of Finance to whom you can contact for further information on the conditions for granting this allowance and, if necessary, the number of workers benefiting from it. Ms Vanrobaeys, 382 flash checks on telework were carried out during the period from 4 January 2020 to 1 January 2021. In 205 cases infringements were detected. 124 employers were involved in infringements of mandatory telework. 186 employers were concerned with non-compliance with other corona prevention measures, such as social distancing, ventilation or hand hygiene. Social inspectors also carried out other checks in January, such as the classic checks on undeclared work and social fraud. A total of 804 checks were carried out in January 2021, with 364 infringements detected. These include infringements of undeclared work, corona measures, temporary unemployment and part-time work. These figures relate only to common controls carried out by at least two social inspection services in the district cells. In addition, all individual checks of the social inspection services in the context of their core business will be included. In addition to the flash actions, awareness-raising measures are of course planned to help small and large enterprises to tackle the problem or issue of telework, with a focus on the health and safety of workers and ensuring them. A "telework" theme is being developed on the website of the Belgian Knowledge Centre on Well-Being at Work (www.beswic.be) in order to support prevention actors in all aspects of well-being at work (physical health, mental health, safety, etc.).). It will include recommendations, tools and outreach materials. During this term of office, we want to enable the social partners to play an optimal role at inter-professional, sectoral and enterprise levels, in order to deal as effectively as possible with the issue of psychosocial risks as well as other risks related to well-being at work. The social partners are the ones who know best the situation in the workplace. It is therefore obvious to me that they must be involved as much as possible and that we must work together to find the most effective solutions to the various problems facing the world of work.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u129	Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive answer. It is true that the telework and occupational accidents that would occur within this framework are already marked in our legislative arsenal. However, as you have pointed out, this arsenal must be able to be adapted in particular with regard to the right to disconnection. These collective agreements have been adopted in a context other than the latter and in any case, in a context where the relationship with social networks is less present. We see that it is through social networks that the pressure on work continues to be exerted. This temporary convention reinforces me in the idea that it should be perpetuated. Teleworking is now compulsory, but it is not observed, in particular, because of the lack of support for teleworkers in terms of mental health, computer equipment, the high electricity and connection costs involved in teleworking. There's also a fear I didn't hear you talk about. Many employees are afraid of being "flashed" by their employers, as it is known that there are efficient software and that some employers tend to increase meetings to ensure that the worker is performing the tasks assigned to him. There's a real fear about that. All this to tell you that alongside the rules of supervision and the awareness-raising tools that you have explained, I think that this right to disconnect really needs to be achieved. I hear a will on your part in this regard and I am very pleased with it. There is also a need for more compensation for domestic infrastructure charges. This was the choice made by the Netherlands or Finland. I think it would be interesting to get to it. Finally, I wanted to draw your attention to the side effects of teleworking, particularly for restaurants and small shops in the office areas. Your task in relation to this is not simple because telework must be regulated and encouraged, but we must ensure that the jobs affected by these businesses that sit in the office quarters at the same time are safeguarded. This is a complicated task for which you can count on our support.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u130	Mr Minister, we look forward to an agreement with the social partners, who were really seeking it. That should be stressed. They are the ones who, on the ground, will bring back the reality - a certain reality that we do not yet know. This is a new phenomenon, which has been accelerated by the pandemic. I think there are advantages and disadvantages. We are also pleased that there is an end date. We'll take stock at that time. From the feedback we have, we see the positive things, but we also see the dangers. Mrs Rohonyi pointed out some dangers; but there is also the danger that can really be useful for some employers, who see telework as an individualization of work, and especially of the worker. We know that it is in the collective that people best share the difficulties at work. This individualisation of work should not also lead to individualisation of working conditions. Then there's the whole social side. The pandemic really put us in front of our reality as social beings. That's a lead I'm launching and sharing with you. One can see the positive sides of telework but in the long term it creates societal problems; it is complicated to see how these workers live this individually. It may seem nice to stay at home for a whole day, but with a little hindsight, you might think that it's still better to take the train to work. It's not always obvious. There is also domestic violence. All this will really have to be taken into account in consultation. We are interested in following up on this file.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u131	Madam President, I share what Members have just said in their reply to the various points of concern directly related to telework or which are the consequence. That is indeed one of the concerns I share with them. If I may, I would like to make a correction for the correctness of the record because I believe that my language has come up in response to Mrs Vanrobaeys' question. Since we are talking about numbers and controls, I would like to point out that the 382 flash or flitscontrols that occurred in the period between 4 January 2021 and 31 January 2021, and not between 4 January 2020 and 31 January 2021, as I said. It was therefore over the period of January 2021 that these 382 flash or flitscontrols intervened.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic372x.u132	Minister, thank you. It will therefore be amended or added to the minutes.
