ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u1	Minister, the Fair Competition Report was established in 2015. People who want to report a form of social fraud can lodge their complaint through this hotline. They are so sure that their complaint will end up with the competent government actor. The hotline was established according to three principles. It would prevent anonymous complaints. It would work with a low-threshold procedure. It would also sanction abuse. Today, abuse of the hotline is reduced by the possibility of prosecuting slanderous creators. If the notification does not constitute a slander and unless the reporter decides otherwise, the identity of the reporter will also be protected today. Even before a court, the social inspection services will not disclose that. The situation is completely different when reporting tax fraud. Since the IRS has no central hotline, these reports, last year about 3,000, come in via various channels and forms, also anonymous and defamatory. By not linking quality requirements or protection measures to the notifications, tax inspections lose a lot of energy by checking false reports, while, in the words of Michel Maus, a proper regime should protect both the genuine tax whistleblower and the taxable person who is unjustly charged. Mr Minister, since you will be drawing up an overall action plan against fraud, I have the following questions for you. Has the College already discussed the development of a reporting point for tax fraud? What were the main conclusions? If no, will the possible creation be addressed and will principles applicable to the Fair Competition Communication Point also serve as a guide? Is it an option to integrate tax fraud notifications into the Fair Competition Communication Point, which would be in line with your intention to further integrate the functioning of all actors in the fight against fraud? What do you think are any obstacles to this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u2	Mr Vanbesien, measures have been discussed and proposed in the College for Combating Tax and Social Fraud to improve the effectiveness of the existing hotlines. These are part of the first action plan currently under discussion in the Ministerial Committee on the fight against tax and social fraud. As far as tax fraud is concerned, the FPS Finance regularly receives reports of alleged fraud. Those reports are always examined and delivered to the most appropriate service within the FPS Finance. That could be the BBI, but also the taxation, customs and excise duties or the Patrimonium documentation. It is important to know that this practice exists and works. That does not alter the fact that improvements may still be possible. These will be addressed in the proposed project of the Action Plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u3	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. As you know, I fully support your ambition to combat fraud. Indeed, notification mechanisms already exist today. In my question, however, I indicated that the whole of the problem could be improved. In my view, it is easy to make progress by extending the already existing social fraud hotline, even if it is in the front end, with a foothold for tax fraud. This could be an advantage for an integrated approach to social and tax fraud.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u4	Minister, these are three different questions with a common thread, namely reforms. That is why I am asking the questions, because the tax files are usually followed up by Mr Donné. How do we ensure that, in addition to policies in the various areas, we also put sufficient pressure on the various very concrete reforms? Your attitude is that the coronarelance starts with the support measures, but that the real start will only come when those reforms are in place. Europe is helping us in this by providing additional resources for this support, but also by putting pressure on that reform agenda. Is this really true and will it continue to be so? That's how I put the three questions together. At present, yesterday and today, there is a consultation between all the national parliaments within the European Union and the European Parliament itself, the so-called COSAC, of Conference of Parliamentary Committees for Union Affairs of Parliaments of the European Union. That is where the European relaunch plan is being discussed. I'm sitting at the table on behalf of the Chamber. I have noticed in the last two days that the parliaments and the European Parliament and the European Commission know very clearly how they will spend the money, which are the criteria for spending money. However, when it comes to reforms, the situation is much more unclear. How will they be checked? What about the guarantee that these reforms will be implemented effectively? Are you confident that the European money provided will be spent efficiently and effectively? Are you confident that the reforms requested will be implemented effectively in the framework of these re-launching plans? Is there sufficient monitoring planned for this? This should not only be monitoring the spending of money, such as on expenditure on green policy or digital policy, but above all monitoring these reforms? At the launch of the relay fund, it was said that this is a temporary fund. Because this is temporary, there would be pressure on the Member States to reform. After the aid they will have to stand on their own feet again. That's what created a grip. Member States receive money on condition that they reform and on condition that they build a piece of fiscal capacity for the European Union. Now it appears that temporaryity is under discussion. There are going to be votes, and not the least of them, who say that the fund should become permanent. Among them, the President of the European Parliament, Mr David Sassoli, gave a speech to that effect in Greece. Mrs Christine Lagarde, the President of the European Central Bank (ECB), also suggests this. By the way, Finnish economists and business leaders have made it clear, and that is interesting, that one can join the fund but that one can no longer get out of it. It is a regulation of the European Commission, so we have little control over it, but the Member States must ratify the part of the funding. If a country wants to leave, it must stop its funding, but it cannot do so on a European-technical level. The only way out is to leave the European Union, which, of course, is very radical. This gives the impression that the fund is not temporary, but rather permanent. What is your view and that of the Belgian Government on this? Should this remain a temporary initiative and should this fiscal capacity be filled in temporarily? Or does the government rather defend a permanent form? My last question is linked to that. The recovery plan puts pressure on reform, but the main focus is on spending money. That is not a bad thing, it is said, because the recovery plan is temporary, but we can see that it is already becoming more permanent. Then there is an additional threshold to encourage reforms: these are the budgetary controls tout court. There are rules in the Maastricht Treaty that put pressure on the Member States to reform, but they also seem to be under discussion. France, for example, has made a number of punitive statements about this. There is also my question: what does the Belgian Government think of this? Are we sticking to the Maastricht standards? What is the minimum minimorum, the foundation of this cooperation in the euro area? How do we press for reform? Where are the safe guards?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u5	Thank you very much, Mr Loones. As you know, I myself find this a very interesting debate. So I am glad that you keep asking questions about this, and even more than one question, so that we have more than two minutes to answer. Firstly, I would like to talk about the proposals for the revision of the European budgetary rules. It is important to mention that these proposals must come from the European Commission. The Member States will, of course, be free to put their own proposals on the table. We are, of course, aware of the Conseil d'Analysis Economique, but it was not specifically pointed out on the French side. In fact, it is only internal advice. The debate on the budgetary rules has been going on for a while. Many economists have pointed out that this deficit standard of 3% was fairly arbitrary and lacks empirical support in this respect. So there are certainly reasons to reconsider these budgetary rules. I am convinced that the rules as they exist today are effective. They ensure economic and financial stability and the sustainability of public finances. As regards your question about the advantages and disadvantages of the individual assessment at the level of the Member State's sovereign debt, the great advantage of this is that, on the basis of the individual debt rule, we can take into account the economic and financial situation of the country concerned and the state of its public finances for each Member State. That specific knowledge can be an advantage at that time. If we are going to organise this at individual level by Member State, it is not that simple. We must also avoid moral hazard and ensure that the debt rule will also lead to a reduction in debt. It seems to me to be an interesting and interesting slope, but I still have my doubts as to whether this will be politically feasible. To close this point, I would like to say that the fact that there must be clear budgetary rules, the completion of the Banking Union and the continuation of the Capital Markets Union and the decisions that are still being taken there are important factors for the stability of the euro area. As far as your questions on the recovery plans are concerned, I fully agree with you when you stress the importance of correctly deploying the funds allocated. Member States' national control systems are also a key instrument in this regard. During the meetings of the Ecofin Council, but also in bilateral talks with Commissioners, I have always referred to the specific Belgian structure. Since the Länder have submitted their own projects and reforms, they are also logically responsible for control and audit. The Commission also recognises this reality. Either the results of the monitoring will be brought together at the federal level, which is actually responsible for contacting the Commission. In addition to Europe's unseen capacity for action with this huge fund of EUR 750 billion, there is also the unseen control system for these expenditures. The whole system of Milestones and Partial Payouts has been created to combat abuse and to pursue the proper management of the pennies. In that sense, I believe that the control framework for the Recovery Fund is stricter than for the other more traditional funds. Member States will not receive payment of their share of the Recovery and Resilience Facility (RRF) until they have also implemented certain reforms. The Commission is also constantly delivering an opinion, but the finance ministers always have the opportunity to stop or stop payments. As regards whether or not to make the recovery fund permanent, I would like to refer to what I said earlier in this committee. The Next Generation EU Recovery Fund is a one-off and temporary instrument. The debate on whether or not it should be a permanent instrument is not yet under discussion. We must first manage the current crisis and, above all, ensure that the recovery fund, for which we can now raise funds on the market, is properly implemented so that investment and reform can benefit our economy. Only then will we have to evaluate and draw conclusions and ask ourselves whether or not it is a sustainable instrument of our European crisis infrastructure.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u6	Thank you, Minister, for your reply, which contained a great deal of interesting information. I summarize several elements of your reply in the drive for reform, because that is what I want to do. How do we put pressure on Member States and European institutions to reform? In the past, the European Union has put pressure on the Member States to make adjustments, but in recent years, European pressure has become somewhat more unbelievable because it has not been dared to target large European Member States which have undermined their own credibility. That is something I remember from your answer. On budgetary rules, you say that some economists claim that the empirical basis of the 3% standard is lacking from the Maastricht Treaty. Last week Paul De Grauwe published an interesting opinion piece about this in De Morgen. An even more interesting piece of opinion is the reply of Sander Loones on Doorbraak. It was interesting to note that Paul De Grauwe was very eurocritical in his piece. He actually states that the control of national budgets should no longer take place at European level, but should be given that responsibility to the Member States. So the Member States themselves are responsible for doing business, so at European level there are fewer powers left. I thought that was a very special point of view of Paul De Grauwe. At the same time, Paul De Grauwe is not very consistent. Member States have to control their own budgets, but if they fail, debt will be consolidated. My fear is that Paul De Grauwe's model does not provide enough pressure to reform. The pressure of the European level has been reduced. Paul De Grauwe's model seems to be giving pressure, but that's actually not okay either. I am very pleased that you said that a reduction in debt should be the principle. Whether that should be 60%, or something else, is an individual assessment, as long as the debt falls. However, if there is no European standard, this debt reduction may well be watered down. You say that Europe should take into account our specific Belgian structure for the summing up of the plans. It's the same there, too. The Länder come up with expenditure and reforms, but they will have to monitor whether they are actually taking place. In a way, this is an application of the De Grauwe model. The problem is that we ask the Länder to reform, but if they do not reform, they cannot be sanctioned. If the Länder do not fulfil their responsibilities, the European Commission will finally address you, the Belgian Government, as you have submitted the plan. So there is no guarantee of effectively laying the responsibility where it lies. I understand from your answer that you can see the relevance of this. We must make politicians responsible. Politicians are like cats: one should not put them too close to the milk, because then they will drink. My point is above all: let us reform and ensure that there is always new milk. Otherwise, the milk could get very acidic.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u7	Mr Piedboeuf, I would like to inform you that you can contact the secretariat of this committee for details of the key figures for the tax shelter scheme for the period 2015-2020. The figures are also included in the Finance SPF's 2020 annual report, which is scheduled to be published in June. I have a lot of numbers here, I don't think it's necessary for me to dictate them. I'll send them to you in writing. In its judgment of 12 February, the Brussels Court of First Instance ruled in favour of the State, which explains why the State was not on appeal. As for the attitude that the State will adopt in court disputes, this issue is currently under consideration in my administration. In this regard, let us not forget that further monitoring was one of the objectives of the reform of the system in 2014. Moreover, the scheme constitutes State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. In this context, it is necessary to ensure that aid is not channelled towards objectives other than the creation of cultural products. The objective of the tax shelter, i.e. support for cultural projects, was once again highlighted when the extension of the scheme until 31 December 2026 was approved by the European Commission on 7 December 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u8	Minister, thank you for your answers. There are many court decisions and some are still pending. This worries the sector and especially the insurers. It is therefore important to simplify or clarify the position of the administration so as not to disrupt the proper functioning of the sector. I'll take a look at the numbers you sent me.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u9	Minister, it is good that Belgium is now part of the Climate Coalition of Finance Ministers. We could hear that in a movie. Protecting the climate is the responsibility of the entire government, so everyone is a bit of a climate minister. I am pleased that you take your responsibility as one of those climate ministers in this country and commit our country to the Helsinki Principles that put this coalition first. For Ecolo-Green, it is important that a coordinated and equitable use of financial, fiscal and monetary instruments is developed, in the service of an ambitious and fair transition. So I have a few questions for you. The Helsinki Principles talk about ambitious climate investment. In what way will you contribute to responding to the financial sector, so that investment flows are aligned with the objectives of the Paris Agreement? What initiatives will you take to actively involve the financial sector in the climate transition? Another principle is environmental taxation. For us, it is important to abandon the polluter pays principle, but at least as important that this environmental tax is embedded in a comprehensive and fair tax reform. To what extent can membership of this climate coalition contribute to this? How can you ensure that any proceeds from this return to the people? Finally, this is a good commitment. What are the next steps in this cooperation?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u10	Mrs Buyst, after joining the international climate coalition to which you referred, I took part for the first time in a very interesting meeting on 6 April. The next meeting of Finance Ministers will take place in the autumn. It is expected that this coalition will also play an important role at COP26, the annual climate conference at the end of this year in Glasgow. Climate problems are an outstanding global issue. It is therefore of course very useful to hear different international voices. In addition, as you implied in your question, it is a problem which the government cannot deal with alone. Both institutional investors and small savers want to join this green transition and invest sustainably. The public authorities must therefore, firstly, draw up clear legislation and standards and, secondly, provide the financial institutions with the right tools to channel more private resources to green projects. The European Union has taken several initiatives in this direction in recent years. She was also supported by our country. I refer, among other things, to the Sustainable Finance Action Plan of March 2018, which has led to several legislative initiatives, such as the EU-Taxonomy. It is also about the legislation on disclosure of sustainability by both financial institutions and companies, which have to report more and more strictly and fully, in order to give investors the opportunity to make effective sustainable choices. The European Commission will also publish a proposal for a European standard for green bonds in the coming months. Through these initiatives, the European Union plays a leading role in the sustainability of financial flows worldwide. A coalition of finance ministers is very committed to sharing experiences and best practices, bringing its members into contact with experts and identifying new developments. Our participation in the coalition will allow us to build even more expertise on those issues, including what you just mentioned, especially environmental tax. Taxation, of course, remains largely national competence. Connecting to the Climate Coalition will allow us to share our experiences and learn from other countries how to organise their environmental tax. The government agreement on environmental taxes itself is clear. Taxation will be studied to make them more climate-friendly and environmentally friendly. This will be based on the polluter-pays principle. The reform of the environmental tax is an important point of action of the government and is also part of the fiscal reform. In this case, it is also part of the priorities set out in our National Recovery Plan, which was submitted to the European Commission on 30 April 2021. In order to implement these important and necessary structural reforms, we reached a political agreement last week or two weeks ago on the greening of mobility.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u11	Thank you, Minister, for a very clear and very comprehensive answer, in which I am very impressed by one word, namely cooperation. You are talking about working with the financial sector, but you are also talking about working with the other European countries, which will allow you to exchange good practices and look at each other's experiences. Let's be clear, the goal is climate neutrality by 2050. We must therefore work on the climate transition. It is important to align financial flows with the climate transition. It is therefore a good thing, firstly, that investment is directed towards this goal and secondly, that there is also an eye for a comprehensive and fair tax reform. As you pointed out, we will have to discuss this global approach in COP26 and it will be important for Belgium to take a proactive role in the pursuit of climate neutrality by 2050.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u12	Minister, the economic impact of corona varies considerably from sector to sector. The government's choice to temporarily apply a VAT rate of 6% for the catering industry and the event sector reflects that reality. The most affected sectors need specific support. The reports of the Economic Risk Management Group show that the travel sector and non-medical contact professions are also among the most affected sectors. The choice to support the catering and events sector is legitimate, but my concern is the way in which the government will treat sectors that have suffered similar damage equally. That is why I have the following questions for you, Minister. Why did you choose to reduce VAT rates for the hospitality and event sector, but not for entrepreneurs active in other heavily affected sectors? Are additional remedial measures envisaged for the travel sector and non-medical contact professions? Can VAT reductions for hairdressing services and the travel sector be part of this, as this is explicitly allowed under the European VAT Directive? How will you ensure that the most affected sectors are treated equally if it is not possible to reduce the VAT rate, as for the other non-medical contact professions outside the hairdressers? Do you believe that an alternative recovery scheme would be appropriate for these sectors?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u13	Minister, VAT for the catering industry was reduced from May to September. We are particularly pleased that the proposal by Mr Ravyts and myself in committee was finally adopted by the government in good time. Our constructive opposition is therefore paying off. In the meantime, it's obvious. In the meantime, many other heavily affected sectors are calling for a reduction in VAT, whether temporary or not. Colleagues may also have received letters from the salons entitled "Save our salons, lower VAT to 6%." I quote: 'Our business is under threat and a reduction in VAT to 6% can make a huge difference to the survival of the sector and the maintenance of employment. I would personally like to share my concern with you, Minister. A VAT reduction would allow me to finance my recovery, as this would mean an additional margin of 11.69 euros on every 100 euros earned." As I said, a lot of heavily affected sectors are now asking for a reduction in VAT, whether temporary or not. I agree with Mr Vanbesien's questions. Are you planning VAT reductions in other sectors? If so, in which sectors? If not, what arguments will you reject the VAT reduction in the other sectors in difficulty?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u14	Mr Vermeersch, I am very pleased that you are putting the compliments of the VAT reduction on your hat. I know that success knows many fathers, but now I always have an example when you say that I am not listening to your constructive proposals. The government has already taken a wide range of aid and recovery measures. We chose to support the catering sector at its opening on 8 May with a temporary VAT reduction. A number of proposals have been put forward here from other sectors, and I would like to make one point. The right of access to many physical events, such as culture, sport and entertainment, was already subject to the reduced rate of 6% before the corona crisis. Moreover, certain services within these sectors are even exempt from VAT. The travel sector benefits from several specific measures. For example, hotel services and the provision of camping sites in Belgium are already subject to a reduced VAT rate of 6%. There is also a reduced VAT rate for passenger transport. In some cases, mainly maritime transport and international air transport, there is even an exemption from VAT. Under the European VAT Directive, the government only has the option of introducing a reduced VAT rate for the goods and services listed very explicitly in Annex 3 to the Directive. I understand, of course, the question concerning hairdressing services, but it is true that all non-medical contact professions, with the exception of hairdressing services, are not included in Annex 3 to the VAT Directive. It is therefore very difficult to introduce a reduced rate for all non-medical contact professions. Of course, the government will continue to monitor the situation closely in all sectors, to see whether additional measures are required and which measures are most appropriate at that time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u15	Madam President, Minister, it must be our ambition to focus our support for the recovery as much as possible on those sectors that need it. According to the National Bank, our country is not doing a bad job in this area, in defining and diversifying aid. Of course, the devil is in the details. There are a few things that emerge, which raises the question of how we can ensure that everyone who is being imposed a similar measure is supported in a similar way. This is how the non-medical contact professions have emerged. In my question I also referred to the difference between hairdressers and other non-medical contact professions, since one profession may have an exception and not for others. The travel sector is also emerging. You have given some answers. If it is not possible to do so via VAT, we need to look at the other ways in which we can provide for temporary recovery measures similar to those for the catering and events sector, so that those sectors affected in the same way are also supported in a similar way. I call on you to pay particular attention to this and to work with us to find solutions to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u16	You are actually replying, Minister, that Europe is a stumbling block to the implementation of effective recovery policies. In your reply, you say that Europe is preventing us from pursuing a policy of first working on liquidity and solvency and, therefore, on profitability through a reduction in VAT. You clearly refer to the fact that the VAT Directive prevents VAT reductions. I understand that Europe, in particular the European VAT Directive, is preventing us from pursuing a recovery policy based on VAT reductions. Professors sometimes say the same thing we say with Flemish interest. Just now I was able to quote Professor De Grauwe, now Michel Maus, who talks about the other sectors that are also struggling. On Radio 1, Mr Maus was thinking about the event sector and the travel sector. If the public authorities take such a heavy measure, in particular a VAT reduction for the catering industry, this demand naturally also arises for all other sectors that have had a difficult time in the past year. The government has no choice but to provide for a similar measure or aid. The question is whether this will happen. Mr Maus says that he thinks that the government will have no other choice and that this will, of course, entail a cost. Minister, you are hiding behind Europe, behind the VAT directive. We believe that you should only knock on the table in Europe in order to obtain a temporary derogation from the VAT Directive so that you can pursue a recovery policy aimed at profitability. This allows you to make a very targeted VAT reduction for the most affected sectors.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u17	Madam President, Minister, my question has already been put. You may have read the article in Knack, in which the tax administration is presented as a bad loser. The article cites poignant cases of bona fide taxpayers who have caused tax disputes in a nightmare. The tax mill grinds slowly, but it grinds. The taxable persons concerned are both financially and mentally broken out. Everyone makes mistakes, including the IRS. However, the tax authorities seem to have a very difficult time admitting and correcting mistakes. Instead of admitting, the hierarchy of your administration allows the taxpayers to sue. I asked you a question a few months ago about the compensation for VAT that was wrongly charged to pilots in training on the basis of a circular. Your answer was rather evasive. You were just as much a minister as you were responsible for this matter. However, the situation is clear. On 29 July 2016, the then Minister of Finance, Johan Van Overtveldt, agreed to conclude a deal with the student pilots who were wrongly required to pay VAT on their training. The magazine Fiscologist of 7 April discusses a new judgment of the Antwerp appeal court, in which the tax authorities were for the umpteenth time unsuccessful and ordered to pay compensation. I am in possession of some fifteen judgments or judgments in which the tax authorities are unsuccessful. It therefore seems to me that your administration would prefer to continue the VAT procedures on pilot training rather than admitting its error and compensating the student pilots. In this way, the student pilots see their potential damages paid to lawyers' fees and court fees. Has the previous Finance Minister, Alexander De Croo, withdrawn his predecessor's agreement of 29 July 2016? Did you withdraw that agreement? If the agreement was withdrawn, who took the initiative? Was there a cost-benefit analysis made? If so, what is the outcome of this? If the agreement of 29 July 2016 was not withdrawn, we should add the VAT file on pilot training courses to the list of examples in Knack, of errors that the tax authorities do not want to admit?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u18	Ms Depoorter, the agreement of 29 July 2016 to conclude a deal with the student pilots was submitted to the Treasury Inspectorate for approval under the supervision of my predecessor, former Finance Minister Johan Van Overtveldt. The Treasury Inspectorate didn't agree. The conclusion of a settlement with the student pilots did not appear to be in accordance with the provisions of Article 84 (2) of the VAT Code, which state that the mechanism provided for in respect of VAT is only possible if such settlement is concluded with the debtor of the tax and, moreover, if it does not result in an exemption or moderation of the tax. The agreement of 29 July 2016 violates these provisions, which means that my administration has no choice but to follow the legal proceedings. I note, moreover, that the administration has obtained a favourable judicial ruling in a number of cases, as recently before the court of first instance in Hainaut, Bergen, on 31 March 2021. The case-law is therefore by no means unambiguous and the case-law must be assessed on a case-by-case basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u19	Minister, I think that is a somewhat easy answer. You're saying the Treasury Inspectorate didn't agree, but what did you do as a minister for this file? This file has been dragging on for years. People who have paid for very expensive training can show precedents in the case law with which they can get back these resources from the tax authorities. However, you refer to a single file, in which your services were right at first instance. That doesn't mean we're talking about appeal procedures. So I urge you to take a very thorough look at the file. These are young people who have financed very expensive training and who have the right to recover VAT. You do nothing, however, to allow justice to be done for those persons. It would be a good thing for you to take a thorough look at things and take steps.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u20	Mr Minister, I have raised this dossier on several occasions in this committee. It concerns the competitive handicap for European companies as a result of the VAT exemption for the introduction of medical aid provided free of charge or made available to those in need, or to meet their own needs to combat the COVID-19 outbreak. My proposal to create a level playing field between European producers and producers in third countries by providing for the VAT refund for medical relief products that would be produced in Europe was not supported by the majority parties. Apparently, there is now a new opportunity to eliminate the VAT handicap for European businesses. On 12 April 2021, the European Commission launched the proposal to exempt the purchase of goods and services by the Commission or an EU VAT agency or body to keep those goods or services in stock or to supply them to Member States or third parties. This proposal was written from the European budgetary perspective to eliminate VAT as a cost factor. Fortunately, production in Europe or in third countries is treated equally in this proposal. However, it still does not solve the VAT handicap resulting from the temporary VAT exemption for imports of emergency goods. However, the European Commission has shown that the proposal 688 for a temporary exemption with the right to deduct the input tax for the COOVID-19 vaccines and in vitro diagnostic medical devices in response to the COOVID-19 pandemic is a different option. Do you support our policy objective to eliminate the VAT handicap for our Belgian and European producers of emergency goods? Will you use the proposal COM(2021) 181 to draw the attention of the European Commission to this VAT handicap and tell us that it is not enough simply to take measures to eliminate VAT as a cost factor in view of its own budget? Are you prepared, because the VAT handicap for European producers has been going on for more than a year now, to block the adoption of the proposal COM(2021)181 until the time when the VAT Directive provides for a general temporary exemption with the right to deduct for emergency goods and services as currently only applicable in the case of imports in the event of a disaster?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u21	Mrs Depoorter, I fully support the idea of amending VAT rules at European level in such a way that Member States can apply identical VAT rules in relation to imports, intra-Community acquisition and domestic supply of emergency goods intended to combat disasters and crises in the Member States, such as the current COVID-19 pandemic. The European authorisation for Member States to exempt emergency goods from VAT under the COVID-19 pandemic until 31 December 2021 can only be granted by the European Commission for the import of such goods on the basis of current European rules. At present, European regulations do not allow the same authorisation to be granted for the intra-Community acquisition or domestic supply of emergency goods, nor do they allow Member States to decide independently not to tax such an operation. There is agreement between the Member States and the European Commission to resolve this problem in the future by amending the VAT Directive in the context of the ongoing negotiations on the European Commission's proposal on reduced rates. There is no doubt that further communication will soon be possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u22	Minister, it is good that there is consensus on amending the VAT directive. Your argument that it was not possible for our country to amend the VAT directive has been discussed several times in committee. I continue to find it particularly regrettable that our companies remain hungry. It is also one of the findings in the Special Committee COOVID-19 that local production was not facilitated by the federal government by that VAT handicap. You say that you are following my approach and that you will defend it in Europe. I sincerely hope that you will do so formally and that we can find a solution to facilitate the local production of medical devices and medicines in future pandemics and to ensure that there is rapid switching in local businesses. By the way, in the special committee COOVID-19, it has been pointed out that your services were not partners in the local production of mouth masks in our province. So if you take the dossier to heart, we might be able to tackle the next crisis better.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u23	Following the various judgments of the Court of Cassation, I can confirm that a flat-rate quota of foreign taxes will in fact be charged against the Belgian tax corresponding to the French dividends received by the residents of Belgium. It should be noted, however, that the Convention on the Prevention of Double Taxation, concluded on 10 March 1964 between Belgium and France, provides only for the deduction of a flat rate of foreign taxes from the tax payable in Belgium. It does not, therefore, provide for the imputation of the withholding tax on Belgian furniture in France. In other words, a taxpayer who, by reason of the liberating nature of the movable prepayment levied in Belgium on his dividends, chooses not to declare them, will not, in principle, be able to benefit from this imputation. On the other hand, French-source dividends duly stated in a declaration to the tax of natural persons may be claimed. The five-year period for an ex officio relief of contributions to the tax of natural persons is not applicable, as there is no double taxation, in accordance with the settled case-law of the Court of Cassation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u24	Minister, thank you. It's very specific and it's in line with my request.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u25	Madam President, Minister, for once, I am not going to refer to my written question, because it has Luxembourg spring colours, and I would of course like to share this with you. Scary (starge?) Kontroll vun der belscher Douane war het sech passéiert de 7 Mee zu Maartel, on der Grenz tècht der Belsch an Grand-duché. Excuse me, but Luxembourg is my mother tongue, to me as well as to a part of Belgium that many have forgotten. I'll continue in French. Customs officers from a brigade in the province of Luxembourg were joined by their colleagues in Bierset to take action in protest against their working conditions. In recent weeks, customs officers have already expressed their ras-le-bol in Zaventem, Zeebrugge and Bierset. Since the first confinement in March 2020, customs officers have been regularly called up while understaffed. This was particularly the case when the borders were closed. Currently, two motorized brigades are based in Arlon and Marche-en-Famenne. They are planned to be regrouped in Libramont. There are 15 customs officers in the province, which is clearly insufficient. If these customs officers are regrouped in Libramont, travel will be much longer, and they will lose efficiency. The CSC union denounces this project and calls for both seats to be maintained. Minister, what is the status of the consultation with the unions on customs claims? Are you going to maintain two motorized brigades in Arlon and Marche-en-Famenne, i.e. one in northern Luxembourg and one in southern Luxembourg?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u26	Mr Arens, thank you for your question. I also have the answers to your other colleagues' questions, but first of all I will try to answer your question. In addition to intensive social consultation within the administration, constructive consultation took place on 10 May between the trade unions and myself, during which various trade union issues were discussed. A sectoral committee also met on 22 May to discuss a number of points. Cooperation with trade unions is organised at regular intervals at different levels. The government is also working on the relevant issues. Thus, the issue of regularization of active services was resolved at the Council of Ministers on 21 May, and the issue of the premium requested is on the agenda of the next Council of Ministers. The request for priority vaccination of customs officers could not be met at the moment on the basis of the current parameters. With regard to the brigades of Arlon and Libramont, the intention is to regroup them, eventually, in Libramont. In consultation with the trade unions, the administration will first draw up sufficient accompanying measures to minimise the potential impact of the restructuring on the 40 employees concerned. I have a lot of sympathy for the individual staff members, who are seeing their residence change. I understand that this can be difficult and solutions are also sought to address logistical problems. It is my administration's responsibility to organize its work as efficiently as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u27	Madam President, I thank the Minister for his answer. I understand that the two brigades will eventually end up in Libramont rather than in Arlon and Marche. In terms of change of residence, this poses a lot of problems. I would like to urge you, Minister, that Marche and Arlon remain the places of these two brigades. That seems important to me. And you know as well as I do, Arlon is really close to the border and I understand very, very well what the interested ones are telling me when they talk about relocation: the time to go will be much longer to arrive at the place where they have to go regularly than if they remain in the two locations concerned. I really count on you, Minister, to find a Luxembourg solution to this problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u28	Madam President, Mr Arens, the commitment of May 2019 between the former Prime Minister, Charles Michel, and his Luxembourg counterpart, Xavier Bettel, to start negotiations to review the 24-day rule in the preventive convention on double taxation, has never really been realized due to a number of technical and budgetary problems. This does not mean, however, that the file has been forgotten. The issue of telework is part of a global renegotiation of the current Convention on the Prevention of Double Taxation. This treaty dates back to the 1970s and it is important that it be adapted to current standards. In this context, a balanced solution must be sought by the negotiators, including on the issue of telework. This also has the advantage that discussions on the impact of telework that will soon be carried out at OECD level can, where appropriate, be taken into account. As a result, I recently instructed my administration to resume negotiations with the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg with a view to finding a long-term solution that takes account of societal developments in telework. The conclusion of a whole new tax treaty is a long-term task given the complexity of the matter. The amendment which was concluded between Belgium and Luxembourg in 2017 and which provides for the introduction of the so-called "24-day" rule was approved by the Council of Ministers on 12 February 2021. The preliminary draft law assenting to this amendment is currently being submitted for the opinion of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u29	Mr Arens, I note that there was a small chipping in the questions because this question concerned the 24 days of telework. However, Mr Mathei also had a question on the same subject. I give him the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u30	Minister, I have a question about the work of frontier workers at home. Because of the corona measures, they are obliged to work at home and no longer at their workplace. This could have the effect of taxing them at their place of residence. In accordance with the agreements concluded with many neighbouring countries, it is said that homework is supposed to have been carried out in the state of work so that everything can remain fiscally the same. Mr Minister, these agreements will apply until 30 June 2021. Will that deadline be extended because most of the corona measures have also been extended until the end of September? Are discussions taking place at international level to fix homework, which will still remain, in the longer term for the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u31	Mr. Arens, I have good news. I had just said that it had been submitted to the Council of State for its opinion or in French, soumis pour avis au Conseil d'État. This was the case on March 23, 2021. The opinion was delivered on 18 May. My administration became aware of this on May 27th. The amendment will be submitted to Parliament for approval as soon as possible Mr Matheï, I can tell you that no decision has yet been taken on the extension of the COVID-19 agreements which Belgium has concluded with Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Germany and France with regard to workers working at home. I think it would be better to wait for further figures on the evolution of the pandemic before taking a decision and approaching our partner countries. I understand that no decision has yet been taken on the issue of cross-border social security rules. At the international level, there have also been no discussions on a permanent scheme for workers working from home. These talks, which normally take place within OECD Working Group 1, have been postponed until further notice because priority is currently being given to projects on taxation of the digital economy and the introduction of a global minimum corporate taxation, the so-called Pillar 1 and Pillar 2. I suspect that these discussions will probably start soon afterwards.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u32	Minister, thank you for your answer. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that while the implementation of the 24 days is important, the workers wish to have more days. You are aware of developments in telework throughout Europe and elsewhere. So I am counting on you to meet their expectations in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u33	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I agree with what my predecessor has said about a homework definition for the future. There is certainly a need to think about that. As far as the possible extension of the current agreements is concerned, I would urge you to do so, particularly given that many other corona measures have already been extended until 30 September.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u34	Mr Minister, on Wednesday 14 April seven European countries including France, Germany and the United Kingdom launched the Export Finance for Future (E3F) coalition, which aims to put an end to an indefinite horizon for public funding of projects involving fossil fuels for export. The export financing mechanism requires public guarantees. The coalition of these seven countries accounts for 45% of OECD fossil-related export credits. In the absence of a binding timetable, the coalition Member States, which also include Denmark, Spain, the Netherlands and Sweden, will commit themselves to halting support for the fossil energy sector, while taking into account the specificities of each country and their impact on employment. They also undertake to financially support projects compatible with the Paris Agreement and to publish the full carbon footprint of their portfolio of public export guarantees for transparency purposes. While export credit agencies distributed more than $223 billion in subsidies in 2019, their portfolios are still very carbonised. The oil and gas industry was the strongest sector in 2018, accounting for 35% of the world's volume. Your French counterpart, Minister Bruno Le Maire, declared that it is "necessary to change the direction of export financing that must be concentrated exclusively and according to a binding timetable on sustainable projects" and called on the United States to join the coalition to "give weight" to this initiative. For my Ecolo-Groen Group, this initiative seems to us to be very positive with regard to climate objectives and the reduction of carbon energy financing. Mr Minister, at the level of Belgium, is ambition the same as for the seven countries that are embarking on this coalition? Does Belgium intend to join this coalition? To what extent does Belgium still finance export projects in support of fossil energy? What commitments can you make to decarbonize our export financing?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u35	This initiative seems very interesting to me. Let us be clear, we are not going to finance projects elsewhere that we would not support at home. This coalition has started with seven Member States but following their second meeting scheduled this autumn, other Member States will be approached in the coming months. So far, we have not yet received a formal request, but Credendo is already considering the possibility of taking part in it. I would also like to point out that I am not the only minister responsible for Credendo. First of all, this coalition is committed to putting an end to all export guarantees for the financing of fossil fuels. However, not all countries follow the same timetable. For example, Sweden sets the deadline at 2022 while France follows a timetable that runs until 2035. In the Netherlands and Spain no decision has been taken. In the case of possible Belgian accession, a realistic timetable will be important. Moreover, it is not only a question of banning, but also of supporting sustainable projects. This is why these countries are committed to supporting projects in line with the Paris Agreements. It's not new. At Credendo, sustainable projects are promoted. In addition, Credendo has already introduced due diligence to address the potential environmental and social risks associated with export credits. Finally, I would like to point out that in practice, Credendo is currently very little involved in coal-fired power plant projects. A total withdrawal from this sector is already on the agenda in international forums, to which Belgium also subscribes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u36	Minister, I am pleased to hear that you welcome this initiative and that you find it positive. It is clear that my group can only encourage you to join this coalition. Even if an invitation to do so was not received, it would be important for the government to send a signal of interest in the matter. Indeed, we agree with these objectives, namely the reduction of support for fossil energy projects, the financing of sustainable projects and, ultimately, the withdrawal of funding for carbon-based projects. I repeat our wish to join this coalition and hope that we will return to it together. The line is drawn and the will is there.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u37	Madam President, Minister, a new Chief Executive Officer of the Special Tax Inspectorate (SI), Mr. Jean-François Vandermeulen, took office on April 1. The term of office of his predecessor, Mr.Frank Philipsen, was expected to end in October 2019 as he met the conditions for retirement. Since then, however, his mandate has been extended three times for a particularly long period of 17 months and 24 days. However, on 5 November 2019, before our committee, Mr Hans D的Hondt, Chairman of the Finance FPS Steering Committee, announced that the recruitment procedure had been launched and that two winners had been selected. With regard to the profile of the new administrator-general of the ISI, according to Le Vif/L-Express of 22 April 2021, Mr Vandermeulen did not have field experience: he never led a control centre or a regional management. He does not have much experience in the fight against major tax fraud, either with the criminal justice system or with the labour courts. According to Le Vif/L-Express, he would be known as a "good little soldier". However, as part of the proposed reform of the tax ruling system, a coordination unit will be responsible for validating a uniform interpretation to deal with rulings requests. Once the interpretation has been confirmed in a ruling, the ISI will no longer be able to challenge it, if this reform is validated. Minister, how do you explain this delay so long, when the recruitment process was launched in 2019? What were the selection criteria used in the recruitment process? Do you not think that it would have been appropriate to require field experience and experience in the fight against major fraud as a criterion? What resistance will the new deputy head, known as a "good little soldier", show in the face of the likely pressures to align with the positions of the future management in charge of advance rulings? This brings me to my second question, which refers to a second article in the Vif/L'Express entitled "The cumulation of the new boss of the ISI" which highlights the fact that Mr. Vandermeulen is a managing partner of a simple limited partnership called Fourwinds. This company was established in 2008 and aims to manage assets, train and transfer knowledge in formal or private education, publish books, courses or manuals, and create and manage websites. A Finance Officer may engage in any other gainful activity only under strict conditions, including its incidental nature, and after obtaining a cumulation authorization from his hierarchy. As Fourwinds, the company in question, does not publish any accounts – which are authorized for limited partnerships – it is not known the extent of this activity or, therefore, its possible incidentality. Mr Vandermeulen told Le Vif/L'express that Fourwinds has not been active since 2015. However, the magazine notes that the company's website continued until this year. There is a legitimate question as to whether such a cumulation is justified for agents performing important functions in the FPS Finances. Moreover, the aforementioned article adds that "according to several sources within the SPF, the laxity of these authorizations is increasingly common and often concerns officials labeled liberals". It is not I who say it, Madam Chair, since it is the article that specifies it. Minister, do you not find that cumulation is contraindicated from a certain level among the most senior public servants? What level would that be? How many FPS Finance officials are currently granted cumulation authorization? [[Of these, how many are ranked 13 or above?]] Finally, will you investigate any laxity in these authorizations?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u38	In accordance with the circular of 21 December 2018, appointment to a management or management function was not possible during the current business period. With regard to the General Administration of the Special Tax Inspection (SII), the issue was resolved by Mr Philipsen's commitment, which was ready to extend his mandate. As a result, the appointment process took place taking into account the fact that two persons cannot be appointed to the same office. With regard to the selection criteria, I refer to the selection rules as applied by Selor. The candidates were admitted on this basis and followed the selection procedure including a test based on a practical case. An in-depth knowledge of the basic principles of combating tax fraud in all tax laws has been assessed, as well as, in the case of a manager's role, the managerial skills required to exercise it. In your question, you assess in advance a number of aspects of the new deputy head's exercise of the function. This evaluation as well as the operational relationships between the various general administrations and the various supervisory services of the Federal Public Service (FPS) Finance are managed by the Chair of the FPS Executive Committee concerned. With regard to the rules on the authorisation of cumulations, the latter does not provide for the exclusion of certain categories of officials. I am therefore of the opinion that no limit can be set on this matter, since, of course, the official to whom an authorization has been granted, whatever his level, complies with the conditions laid down by the FPS Finances for the exercise of the supplementary activity and, moreover, adheres strictly to the conditions set out in the authorization itself. A total of 1,740 FPS Finance officers have a cumulation authorization. Rank 13 no longer exists in the administration, this part of your question is not applicable. Each cumulation authorization follows a specified procedure, while the competent department within the Personnel and Organisation (P&O) management department ensures compliance with the terms and conditions laid down by the Finance FPS. If the honourable Member has a list of tax officers who, in his opinion, do not comply with the rules in force, I invite him to communicate it to me, so that I can ask the competent department to check the information provided. Ms. Cornet, as mentioned in your question, the statute provides that an employee may not engage in any gainful activity in any way outside of his or her duties until he or she has obtained permission to accumulate. In the case in question, this request for cumulation has been made on an ongoing basis since 2008. For unpaid activities, the same status provides that an employee who believes that he or she has a conflict of interest must inform his or her supervisor in writing. P&O coaching services actively track applications for cumulation, also in practice. To this end, they request a copy of the syllabi, courses or presentations specifically mentioning the training given. Whether or not to be remunerated alone cannot determine whether or not there is a conflict of interest with the performance of a function within the FPS Finance. Other parameters, such as having or not having a family and/or structural relationship with the organiser of the tax seminar in which he wishes to participate, or giving the organiser privileged information on unpublished texts, must also be checked. To date, no evidence has been brought to my attention to indicate a deficiency.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u39	So, Mr. Van Hees, the list of officials you know.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u40	Minister, I am referring to a press article that I think should be of interest to you. I don't have a list to offer you, but if I were Minister of Finance and read it in a magazine like Le Vif/L'Express, I would worry a little bit about what's going on, I would investigate, and I would not necessarily try to get a list, but at least see if there's any problem with cumulation, since it's obviously reported by this journalist. But I see that for you, there's no problem. We're moving forward like nothing's going on. I note your attitude towards this, including that you do not consider that having senior positions in the Finance FPS would be a handicap to be able to combine them with a lucrative position outside the Finance FPS. For me, it's problematic. For you, it is clearly not. I have already asked questions about this. When you see that the members of the College of Rules participate in seminars or get paid to give seminars where they are in contact with the people they need to make decisions about, I think that creates potential ambiguities and conflicts of interest that would be better avoided. The same applies to the ISI. The deputy head is believed to have stopped this activity - obviously he considers it a potential problem. I think more vigilance wouldn't be wrong, but, obviously, it's not your perspective.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u41	Minister, thank you for your answers. I would like to share your optimism but I do not share your view that there is no problem with cumulation or that there is no limit to cumulation on authorization. I do not share this view because I have the impression that it does not involve a fully independent and autonomous administration. Some clues have been given; I would have liked you to tell us that you are taking them in hand and taking the necessary steps to clarify these elements. There's an important element. There was a period during which the company was still active even though the person held a high position. You say it's not a problem. I can hear it. A second problem, in my view, is the fact that, among the activities, there is wealth management - a sector of the greatest concern among those of this company. I mean, I told you, I don't share your optimism. Information was provided that there would be gaps or laxity in the authorizations granted. It seems to me that it might be interesting for you to take up the matter in order to clarify, verify and deepen this journalistic information, so that, with the aim that you pursue and that I also pursue, the administration is always and at all times irreproachable and above all unsuspectable. Indeed, without any trial of intent to the activities of each other and to the good faith of each one, I think it is important that the rules be respected and that there be limits. The ISI must build everyone's confidence. I therefore invite you to investigate and take appropriate action to clarify this information.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u42	Madam President, Minister, tax controls and adjustments to research projects doubled in 2020 compared to 2019, writes L的Echo, which states that the R&D professional discount exemption is particularly targeted. The proportion of checks leading to a recovery reached 81% in 2020, compared to only 44% in 2019. This is a problem that I have been pointing out for a long time and, finally, the administration seems to be taking on board the problem of abuses in this field, on which, as early as 2015, I warned the then Minister of Finance (cf. my written question of 15 December 2015). I also pointed to the problem of the role of the Belgian Bureau of Scientific Policy, BELSPO, which is supposed to come in support of the tax auditors, who then had only one agent to answer all the tax requests. Today, according to the press article mentioned above, it appears that disputes between the SPF Finances and BELSPO arise, resulting from a more lax position of the latter in relation to the former. Minister, why, as regards a 2006 measure, did it take until 2020 for some serious tax controls to be programmed by the tax administration? For the last five years available, what is the number and total annual amount of corrections made to professional discount exemptions for research and development? What are the causes of the differences between FPS Finance and BELSPO? Do you intend to solve this problem? How many BELSPO agents does it currently count to meet the many demands of the FPS Finances for the control of professional discount exemptions in research and development?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u43	Madam President, Mr Van Hees, in recent years, the controls on the waiver of professional discount payments have been an important part of the audit work carried out by my administration. The exemption from professional discount payments, which relates to research and development, is one of the risk indicators and often also forms a group with other risks. In order to enable my administration to work effectively, professional advance payment exemptions are subject to joint tax control. Adjustments resulting from audits shall be reported globally and not by risk indicator. As regards the number and result of the checks on exemptions for research and development, I can tell you that the exemptions from payment of the professional discount are subject to a specific control action called "VRIJST BV – DISP PRP". At present, the data on this action do not allow for details depending on the type of exemption granted. The figures relating to the control of the exemption for research and development programmes or projects cannot therefore be provided separately. However, my administration is working to improve its control monitoring application in order to ensure that the results of the VRIJST BV-DISP PRP action can be reported according to each type of exemption in the future. The disputes between BELSPO and the general tax administration mainly concern the division of powers between the two administrations. Discussions are under way to address these issues. As Minister of Finance, I cannot answer your question about the number of BELSPO officers deployed. For this question, please contact the Secretary of State for Recovery and Strategic Investments, in charge of Scientific Policy, Assistant to the Minister of Economy and Labour.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u44	Mr Minister, I had no doubt that you were going to refer the matter back to your colleague. Thank you for your answers. Let's be positive, I see that what I denounced in 2015 is in the hands of the tax administration. It took a while, but at least it's done. It is a shame not to have the data and not to be able to further clarify this problem with BELSPO. If the tax controllers are dependent on BELSPO and BELSPO does not have sufficient data or a different view of the controllers, this is a problem. Let us hope that this will be resolved quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u45	Mr Van Hees, you still have this question – it is not a reproach.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u46	Madam President, I still have more.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u47	I know that, but these are questions that were postponed at the previous committee meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u48	Indeed! Minister, since 2015, more than seven million information on direct taxes has reportedly been received by the Finance FPS from abroad. The Vif-L-Express asked the administration about the tax follow-up of this vast amount of information. The answer was: "10.3 per cent of total professional income information and 16.3 per cent of real estate income information were audited." Regarding financial information, which accounts for half of the flow, "the SPF's response is amazing," the magazine notes, as it received the following message: "These data are being counted and are therefore not yet available." "But," notes the journalist, "a report by the Court of Auditors at the end of 2019 provides disturbing data in this area. Indeed, the information on financial accounts abroad would have led to an audit in 12,000 files, for 3.5 million info received, i.e. a verification rate of only 0.3%", with, of course, the reservation that several informations may concern the same file. Furthermore, the Court of Auditors' report deplores the lack of officials responsible for risk analysis of this tax information, the first filter to decide on the tax controls to be carried out. These officers were then only five. Today, they would be new, according to the SPF's response to the Vif-L-Express. There are also computer problems that remove some files from the controllers' task list. Minister, do you confirm the number of nine public servants assigned to the risk analysis of this tax information? Is this number sufficient? Do you confirm the above-mentioned computer problems? Are they now settled? Finally, do you confirm foreign financial information data? How do you explain such a small proportion of controls, compared to business or real estate income information?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u49	Mr Van Hees, the staff of the risk management team have again been strengthened for a total of 11 people, one of the objectives being to meet the challenge of processing the data received in the context of the automatic international exchange of information. As regards the processing of these cases, the Court of Auditors points out that the checks are carried out in a standardised and objective manner and that officials may consult foreign data in accordance with international agreements. Your second question also seems to be about a computer problem mentioned by the Court of Auditors in its December 2019 report which did not concern the processing of financial data. This problem is resolved and there are currently no computer problems with risk management related to these file selection tasks. The tax administration carries out risk analyses on the mass of files that can potentially be reviewed. Risk management is therefore not intended to control a defined percentage of taxpayers, but rather to control taxpayers who represent a tax risk. The Court of Auditors in its November 2020 report stresses that this risk analysis is logically supported and makes it possible to correctly estimate the level of risk.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u50	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. I note with satisfaction an increase in the number of staff assigned to the risk analysis, from nine to eleven, when they were initially five. If this increases strongly in relative value, this increase remains rather timid in absolute value. It is difficult for me to say whether that is enough, but eleven officials, this number still seems to me to be small compared to the millions of data received. Given the very important difference between the proportion of checks on business and real estate income, which accounts for 10 and 16% of checks, and financial information, which has a verification rate of only 0.3%, excuse me, but your answer does not convince me! You say that only at-risk taxpayers are subject to verification. But there is no way that there is such a small proportion of taxpayers at risk in terms of financial revenues. You have not given me a convincing answer on this and I find that this millions of financial information received without verification remains a very important problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u51	Mr Minister, this is a practical and trade-related question about another competence of yours, namely customs, which bears the special interest of the Flemish Interest. Since the Brexit there has been a lot of delays for mail packages from the UK. In the first few months after the Brexit, all actors had to get used to the new procedures, which could understandably lead to delays. However, we are told that many postal packages from the United Kingdom are still stuck with customs for up to three weeks. Is it true, Minister, that United Kingdom postal packages have been delayed for weeks at customs? To what extent does Belgian customs use such long waiting times for simple parcel services? What's the relationship with the Brexit? Systematic delays, if confirmed, could be seen as a form of barrier to trade by the European Union, in this case Belgium, vis-à-vis the United Kingdom. Do you share that determination? If not, what will you do to speed up delivery times?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u52	Mr Vermeersch, postal consignments and parcels which are not subject to control on importation are generally released very quickly. It is not true, therefore, that the postal packages have been delayed for weeks at customs. Only when the shipment needs to be checked can the processing time be slightly longer, as the postal or courier company will then have to request additional information from the recipient of the package. Even when other control bodies are involved, for example in the case of medicines or counterfeit products, the lead time may sometimes increase. Since the entry into force of the Brexit, the customs control procedures have not changed, but the United Kingdom has become a third country, requiring customs declarations on importation. Since the Brexit, the postal and courier companies responsible for handling the declaration have faced an increase in the number of customs declarations. Finally, if the status of a 'customs' package is mentioned, it does not necessarily mean that the goods have already been declared to customs. In the case of bpost, for example, the track-and-trace system mentions the term 'customs', even if the customs are not yet in possession of the consignment. The term is a general indication that the consignment is subject to certain administrative import and/or control formalities. If the postal or courier company then first has to request additional information from the consignee in order to fulfil the import formalities, this may indeed lead to longer waiting times, but at that time the package itself has not yet been declared to customs and therefore the customs authorities have no impact on the waiting times for the consumer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u53	Madam President, I would like to thank the Minister for the answer. We'll pass it on to the reporters.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u54	Minister, the latest report on the evolution of the public finances of the International Monetary Fund (IMF), published on April 1, and the accompanying order, reflect an evolution in the head of this institution, although generally regarded as one of the voice carriers of liberal orthodoxy. As a response to the financial challenges of the crisis, the IMF suggests - among other things - an increase in tax escalation as well as an increase in inheritance and donation taxes, and in property taxation. In the immediate future, however, attention is drawn to the proposal to create a new tax which would consist of a temporary contribution set up in the name of the post-covid 19 recovery and levied on high incomes and/or wealth. One-off increases of this type have been experienced in some countries. The closest example to us is Germany, which, in 1991, introduced a solidarity tax to enable it to face the challenge of reunification. This position follows in particular the appeal made a few weeks ago in the newspaper Le Monde by economist Thomas Piketty - which this commission welcomed a few months ago - in which he pleaded for a global tax of 2% on fortunes above 10 million euros. The estimated gains would amount to some $1 trillion per year. In addition, the IMF is also very clearly in favour of the international multinational tax project currently under negotiation within the OECD, which I mentioned earlier. I do not forget, moreover, that the government agreement provides for a major reform aimed at making our tax system fairer and fairer. So, Minister, how do you assess the leads put forward in this report? Are these avenues likely to inspire the proposed tax reform?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u55	Mr Ben Achour, as part of the broader tax reform, the recommendations and ideas of international institutions, including the IMF, will of course be taken into account. However, I would like to point out that the IMF's approaches and reflections are general and do not necessarily apply to each state in particular. In this context, it may be noted, inter alia, that Belgium has also in the past introduced crisis contributions and solidarity contributions which were intended to offset temporary deficits, but which quickly became quasi-permanent contributions and contributions. They are also a source of additional complexity. The progressivity of taxation is already high. As announced in the Government Agreement, the key is the broadening of the tax base. Finally, the reform is, by its nature, limited to federal taxation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u56	Minister, thank you for that answer. In order to feed your future reflections, if necessary, I would remind you that not all segments of the population and especially all sectors of activity have been affected in the same way by the crisis. In France, for example, an NGO, the Multinational Observatory, estimated in a note dated 27 April that CAC 40 companies would contribute more than EUR 51 billion to their shareholders, an amount equivalent to about half of the French recovery plan. On the other hand, I recall the very negative considerations expressed by the U.S. President with regard to runoff theory - a dogma theory - and that reality today contradicts brutally. I also recall the position of the Managing Director of the IMF in favour of taxation on multinationals on 25 May: "There was a proposal for a tax of up to 21%. The figure should be a little lower than that, but any rate above the current tax rate which, in many countries, amounts to 10% or even less, will be beneficial." I know that the relationship between Europe and the United States has reversed. The latter now seem to push the cursor further. I would not want the Europeans to miss the meeting. We therefore count on you to ensure that Belgium has an ambitious voice in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u57	Question No 55017373C by Mr Theo Francken is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u58	Madam Chair, Mr. Piedboeuf, the fact that the Code of Societies and Associations continues to be a forest group is appreciated. In this regard, the administration will verify whether the transfer of a parcel does not imply the loss of registration or a modification of its subjection to income taxes paid by the Act of 6 May 1999 to promote the establishment of forest group societies. It cannot therefore be inferred that the sale of a parcel belonging to a forest group systematically implies the withdrawal of a licence. The number of associates and the reasonableness of the area reduction, as you indicate, are elements of fact that can be taken into consideration in assessing whether or not the licence is maintained.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u59	Minister, I can only definitely rejoice in your answers because you answer every time what I expect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u60	We'll end up wondering if there aren't any small preparation sessions between you guys before! Honni be who doesn't think well!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u61	Mr Samuel Cogolati is absent to ask his question No 55017546C.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u62	Madam President, I refer to my written question. Minister, I expect a lot from you, since I have been in this house since 1995 and this is the first time I have the honour to ask a minister who is also a mayor and who knows what a commune means to manage. So I expect a lot from you and your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u63	Mr Arens, I understand your question, but the answer is a little less positive. On the basis of the current provisions of the European VAT Directive, Member States may apply a reduced rate of VAT only to the categories of goods and services which are included in the limiting list in Annex 3 to that Directive. The municipal yards are not included in this annex.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u64	Mr Minister, I thank you for your answer, but I am aware, for example, that for school buildings, the rate has been reduced to 6%. It's important. As you know, this is somewhere a budget transfer from our municipalities to the federal government. Our communes are still in financial situations that are not simple at all to manage. You know as well as I do that when a municipality has budgetary resources, it invests, it creates jobs, it changes its commune. We have a few years left until the end of the legislature. I will table a text to try to change this situation which is really very important for our communes, including, Mr.Minister, for your commune in De Pinte. You mustn't forget it! And don't forget the visit, of course! It's important.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u65	Minister, for years I have been advocating that Belfius, wholly owned by the state, should become a real public bank, i.e. that beyond public detention, it should have real societal objectives rather than be focused on profit-seeking. So far, successive governments have never opted for such a policy, including the current coalition with a majority of progressive parties. On the other hand, I discover that Belfius is sponsoring the hobby of the president of MR, Georges-Louis Boucher, who uses this hobby in his political communication on social networks. Mr.Bouchez s的y proudly displays in a combination of racing cars with different logos, including Belfius's. In the newspaper La Province of March 2, 2021, he explained his decision to "make the Fun Club season" and said: "Now I'm looking for sponsors. Compared to other motorsports, the budget is large but not excessive, we turn around 100,000 euros." The president of the MR is racing and he has sponsors, including Belfius. Minister, what is the amount of sponsorship granted by Belfius to Georges-Louis Boucher's sport initiative? Do you find it normal for Belfius, in the hands of the state, to sponsor the hobby of a party president? Should this sponsorship not be subject to the legal rules on party financing, since Mr Bouquez uses the sponsored activity in his political communication?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u66	As part of its sponsorship policy, Belfius pays particular attention to supporting initiatives that create equal opportunities and inspire societal commitment. For many years, Belfius and all its collaborators have been active and enthusiastic partners in events such as Viva for Life, Red Nose Day and the Special Olympics, which support children with physical or mental problems. This is why Belfius spontaneously responded positively to Georges-Louis Boucher's request to sponsor the Make-A-Wish Foundation. As you know, Make-A-Wish is raising funds to fulfill the most sincere wishes of children between the ages of 3 and 18 with a life-threatening disease in order to give them the strength to continue fighting their disease. Belfius sponsored this good cause with an amount of 5,000 euros. All of this amount was donated to Make-A-Wish
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u67	Minister, thank you for your answer, which, however, did not convince me. Indeed, the press article I quoted clearly indicates the intention of MR's president, Georges-Louis Bouquez, who wanted to participate in this Fun Cup season and therefore sought sponsors. At some point, he realized that this might be politically difficult to pass through. That's why he looked for and found a project that could give a slightly less personal and a little more social dimension. This is how he integrated Make-A-Wish into his initiative. But, at the core, it was about funding a hobby and using it to make political communication. I note, moreover, that you did not answer my third question on whether this sponsorship was subject to the legal rules governing party funding, since Mr.Bouchez uses this element in his political communication. You say Belfius sponsors initiatives such as Viva for Life and company. As far as I am concerned, I think that in this case it is mainly Viva for Georges-Louis Boucher and that this is outside the scope of Belfius's missions. This is, in my view, very doubtful. Again, you did not answer my question about party financing. However, it would be necessary to investigate more. I will therefore have to speak to other members of the government about this misappropriation of funds that falls outside the scope of what Belfius should do.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u68	Be careful, however, about the words you use.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u69	What do you mean, Madam President?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u70	I am simply saying that there is parliamentary freedom, but there are words that cover notions of criminal law.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u71	What words are you talking about?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u72	That's all I'm saying! I leave this to your sagacity.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u73	You're talking about the word "diversion." I was referring to the misappropriation of the objective.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u74	You said "mistake of funds." I heard you all the same.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u75	Yeah, but maybe not in the way you hear it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u76	Je n'entends rien. J'entends le mot.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u77	In my view, this is indeed a misappropriation of funds in relation to the objective of sponsoring a public bank. The allocation here seems to me to be diverted from the objective that these funds must have.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u78	Tax increases are an important theme. This proved to be the case in plenary last week. Minister, tomorrow we will have an exchange of views on the so-called major fiscal reform. If we can believe the press, you will be explaining all your plans tomorrow, but I fear that the press will be able to return from a bald journey tomorrow. Experts expect taxes to be increased after the corona crisis. In the meantime, the coordinator of your so-called major fiscal reform has clearly argued for higher taxes on capital and for taxes on crypto coins. Other experts point to VAT, where they believe there is still much to pick up, and suggest the possibility of abolishing certain deductions. With a government with 7 parties and 4 different ideologies a so-called major fiscal reform will not be until tomorrow. Because of the wells left behind by the Swedish coalition, and the high cost of the new purple-green policy, the government will have to look for new taxes in every budget format and every budgetary control. The government agreement states that the overall budgetary effort will be distributed according to a fixed ratio, i.e. 1/3 expenditure, 1/3 revenue, etc. new taxes, i.e....... and 1/3 miscellaneous, which usually also amounts to new taxes. So, apart from the exchange of views on the so-called large fiscal reform, we will already face tax increases. You are paraphrasing, Minister, and I have a series of questions for you without taking a preliminaries on the so-called major fiscal reform. Do you share the experts' expectation that taxes will increase after the corona crisis? In addition to and prior to the so-called major fiscal reform, is there any thought and work on crisis tax? Is there any thought and work on increased or new taxes on capital? Is there any thought and work on taxing crypto coins? Is there any thought and work on removing VAT exceptions? Is there any thought and work on removing tax deductions? What will you do as a minister not to increase the overall tax burden on our citizens and businesses? What guarantees can you give for that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u79	Mr Vermeersch, you seem to be sceptical about the far-reaching fiscal reform included in the government agreement. I have indeed been asked to realize it. The Supreme Court of Finance has already done a lot of preparatory work. We have issued a public contract for this purpose. Professor Delanote will coordinate the project. Tomorrow we will have a very interesting exchange of views. For once, I will listen to you instead of the other way around. I am particularly looking forward to your input and approach and, of course, those of your colleagues. Maybe I would like to hear Mr Matheï's point of view! However, we will have that conversation in full disclosure tomorrow. Indeed, all the studies carried out by the European Union, the OECD and the International Monetary Fund show that Belgium needs a far-reaching fiscal reform. I also note that there is a desire to do so across party boundaries, both by majority and by opposition. Indeed, we need a simpler, fairer and more sustainable tax system, which gives oxygen to companies and at the same time provides the public authorities with sufficient resources to invest. The system is out of balance today; it needs to be simpler and more unambiguous. Mr Vermeersch, you are suggesting that prior to the comprehensive tax reform, work should be done on crisis tax, increased taxation of capital, tax on crypto coins and the removal of VAT exemptions and tax deductions. On the contrary, we must take advantage of the broad fiscal reform to evaluate and eliminate the many farms. A broadening of the taxable base should make it possible to reduce certain taxes, but always with the aim of keeping and strengthening our export-oriented Belgian economy competitive. The framework for fiscal reform is laid down in the government agreement: there is a need for administrative simplification, the burden on labour should go down, the employment rate should go up and taxation should also be steering in order to meet the climate objectives. We are starting from the polluter pays principle, with the aim of reducing the use of fossil fuels. These measures will be phased in, while maintaining the recently reformed corporate tax system. The fiscal reform should provide public funds for productive investment. Today, of course, we have built up our Belgian revival plan around the EUR 5.9 billion that our country receives from Europe, but that is not enough. The government's not investing enough today. The ECB's monetary policy offers us the opportunity to do more. The interest rate is low, also the cost price has never been so low and the duration of that low cost has never been so long. We have the ambition to use 4% of GDP for growth-enhancing public investment by 2030. This means that, in addition to the European portfolio, we also need our own additional investment capacity, both at federal and regional level. We have just had an exchange of views on the budgetary framework in which this should be done. In any case, I would like to ask that the current framework does not distinguish between current expenditure and public investment, certainly productive public investment. It is important that we seek a consensus at European level in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u80	Minister, you have understood our scepticism about your so-called large fiscal reform. We are indeed sceptical about this, because we expect that this will be a particularly difficult task in a government with seven parties and four different ideologies. You have not actually answered my questions in concrete terms. I have heard some of the obvious things that we have heard before in the policy letters and in the budget. I read in Humo today that you can taste a bit of humor. In my reply I would like to quote from a reader's letter from Het Laatste Nieuws of 17 May: "Whether Vincent Van Peteghem is a second Dehaene, let's say in the middle, but he has quickly mastered the culture of CD&V, and that is another understatement. Running around the pot and avoiding crucial questions doesn't require anyone to teach him anything anymore. To a question from a news anchor at VTM whether new taxes will come after the billions of budget deficits, it was evasively answered with 'We need to boost the economy', this up to five times. The fact that the new guard is undoubtedly following in the footsteps of the old guard has been proven. Nothing changes under the sun."
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u81	Minister, I am sure you will remember my conversation in this committee a few weeks ago about the agreement you were going to conclude on the greening of commercial vehicles. At the time, you had made statements in the press, but not in Parliament, because, as you said, it still had to be discussed in the government. I understand there's white smoke in the meantime. At least for you, because whether that smoke is white is still to be seen. After all, I think that a number of companies and employees will rather look at them as black smoke. The question of one million remains, of course, how you will compensate for this loss of revenue in respect of excise duties and VAT on fuels. It stays very quiet there. Does this mean, in the long term, an increase in fuel prices, of which individuals will be the victims? What guarantees can you give here today? You said at the previous committee meeting that in principle these electric vehicles remain tax-deductible at 100%. In the meantime, it has become clear from the agreement that we are moving towards a declining decline of 67.5%. That actually means that in future the deductibility of these electric vehicles would be lower than that of a number of vehicles with an internal combustion engine today. How do you rhyme with this? What is the concrete effect on the benefit of all kinds? What adjustments do you provide for in the current calculation formula? What about the tax treatment of costs related to charging the vehicles at the employee or manager's home? How are they going to be proven? After all, there is still a discussion among the auditors. You also said that nothing changes for vehicles that would be purchased until 2023. They could continue to enjoy the current system. Is that limitless in time? What will happen when companies decide to keep certain vehicles for 10 years? Would this possibly lead to an extension of the lifespan of a number of cars? Moreover, we also know that there are four times more commercial cars in Flanders than in Wallonia. Will this ultimately lead to the Fleming being the victim of this measure? I also drew your attention last time to a number of possible effects. I am thinking, for example, of the private purchase of commercial cars with an internal combustion engine, which means that there is no taxable advantage and no social contributions of 22% should be paid, which would mean that this could be avoided. How do you look at that? What should be done with existing vehicles? Does this mean that today's commercial vehicles should only be exported as far as possible to other continents? How do you rhyme with the story of the circular economy? You mentioned that electric vehicles will end up on the private market later. But how sure are you that for the current generation of electric vehicles their value stability remains guaranteed after 150,000 kilometers? Are the vehicles actually worth anything? What about the deductibility of the loading posts? Several reports have been published in the press. How are you going to provide for that? Does this result from the deduction parameters of the vehicle, as is currently the case with vehicles with an internal combustion engine? Is it about other parameters? Finally, Minister, I have often read conclusions which state that electric vehicles are objectively more expensive and that the car brands are not likely to lower their prices. This means that the employee will have to deal with a smaller car, with fewer options and so on. Are you convinced that the announced offer can guarantee affordability for businesses and small self-employed people?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u82	Mr Van Lommel, I have already mentioned in your previous speech and in Mr Donné's question that, of course, we have taken a great deal of time to calculate the budgetary impact of this proposal as far as possible. I would like to make a number of points about this. Firstly, the greening of the fleet will take place in any case. With this proposal, we are only strengthening the necessary acceleration. The budgetary deficits, to which many in the media are referring, are not the result of the proposal, but rather of a changing world with an impact on our revenue. Secondly, my administration has made estimates until 2039. Of course, they depend on a number of assumptions and assumptions, but of course also on a number of uncertainties. That does not make the budgetary exercise any easier. As far as the budgetary aspects are concerned, I would like to go into a little more detail on what is happening on the employers' side, as well as on the revenue from excise duties. There is also a difference between the short and long term. If employers opt for an electric car, they will not pay higher taxes. We are only increasing the tax deduction for electric commercial vehicles compared to those for internal combustion engines. From 2027 onwards, the deduction for these electric cars will gradually be reduced to today's average level, in particular the 67.5%. So we are speeding up greening, without getting less budgetary revenue in the long term. So we radically opt for a greener fleet where that is possible. Some revenue in excise duties, for example, will indeed fall in the future, but they would have fallen in any case. Making the company car park run on polluting fossil fuels longer to support state revenue is, of course, wrong. The millions of tonnes of CO2 saved is, of course, the driver of this reform. The radical choice of emission-free cars will, of course, have enormous positive effects in the short term. The greening of the fleet will have a positive impact on the environment and climate and will permanently reduce healthcare costs. At the same time, we will also have to buy fewer CO2 emission certificates. Nor should the macroeconomic effects of the technological revolution that will take place be underestimated. My administration has calculated that an increase in economic growth of 1% leads to an autonomous increase in revenue of EUR 1.56 billion. These are receipts which derive from the mere fact that the cake has been increased, not because it is more taxed. It is true that a higher catalog value has an increasing effect on the benefit of all kinds, but this is partly compensated by the minimum CO2 rate due to the zero emissions of the vehicle. The catalogue value will of course also fall over the coming years as more carbon-free cars are placed on the market and more carbon-free cars in lower price ranges. Moreover, the market has already indicated that you have undoubtedly read this in the specialized press that the electric car will be competitive around 2025 in terms of catalog value with similar fossil equivalent. With regard to the employer's reimbursement of charges for charging at home, I refer to my reply to oral question No. 55016946C by Mr Joris Vandenbroucke. I come to the question of grandfathering. For commercial vehicles purchased before 1 July 2023, the current tax deduction scheme continues to apply. Whether it is 1 year, 2 years, 5 years or 10 years, the tax deduction scheme continues to apply. A lot of companies work with leases for their company car fleet. In addition, the gradual degressivity of the tax deductibility of electric commercial vehicles from 2026 will also provide an incentive to accelerate the transition to carbon-free cars. So I do not think that grandfathering will lead to a large-scale extension of the life of cars with an internal combustion engine, but, as I said, it is possible. The advantage of all kinds is not touched. The current flat-rate benefit of all kinds will also continue to apply to commercial cars with an internal combustion engine used for professional purposes only. The private purchase of a car will therefore not be more advantageous, but tax will of course be most interesting to offer an emission-free company car. I think that your question about the circular economy is a little outside the scope of this discussion. I am, of course, pleased to hear that you are paying attention to the interests of other continents, but the possible problem you are raising here is obviously not new. Even today, older cars are being replaced by new ones, while, of course, ensuring that these old ones are used even further only if they meet the necessary safety and environmental standards. With this project, we want to focus on speeding up the emission release of cars. As has already been said, the value of an electric car will decrease over time, but of course, taking into account the increasing proportion of cars in the fleet, their value will be higher than that of cars with an internal combustion engine, if this is not already the case. The rules on the deductibility of loading posts do not change. However, an increased cost reduction will be granted through this project for the installation of publicly accessible loading posts under certain conditions. If a minimum driving distance of 500 kilometres is set, the price of an electric car is indeed still high today. However, the question is whether each commercial vehicle necessarily needs such a range, especially when account is taken of the increase in the number of charging points on which this project is also operating. Finally, I would like to point out that technological development is not standing still and that the range of electric cars is increasing with each new generation of batteries. Look at what was on the market five years ago. There is just as much time left until 2026 and then you know what great progress can still be made.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u83	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your reply. That was more detailed than with my interplay the last time, for which I thank you. No matter how we turn it or turn it around, there will be a lot of companies that will buy a car with an internal combustion engine before 2023 to be supposedly secured over the next few years. You say that the full budgetary impact has not yet been calculated. I regret that we do not know them yet, because agreements have been knocked out within the government and communication has also been sent to the outside world. However, you also say that this 67.5% corresponds to the average level of deduction today, i.e. after the reform that started in 2020. This means that the smaller vehicles, which can benefit from a higher deduction today, will still be taxed more heavily in the future. Of course we are doing it because of the climate and the environmental aspect, but the solution cannot be to put these polluting cars on the boat and export them to Africa, where they are still driving around for five to ten years. The environmental aspects are of interest to us here too. So that's not a solution. You're talking about the lower price range of those electric vehicles. Of course, that goes hand in hand with the driving range. I don't think it's much use for a car that only has a driving range of 150 kilometers. This range is then only available on paper, according to WLTP standards. It is important to take account of the fact that, during the summer and when it is hot, we often have to subtract 20% of it. So that technology still has a way to go. Are we saying that evolution is necessary? Yeah, absolutely. No one in this House says that this should not be done or cannot be done, but above all we should not want to go too fast. It was stated in the press that our electricity grid is perfect, but nothing is less true. The next step will be to charge the car at work and then plug in the battery at home to use the hob. That can't be the intention. I also think of smart meters that determine when a car is charged. We also have many questions about the tariffs that will be applied in the electricity bill. I see you looking, Minister, but that is how it will be in the future. The people will be curtailed in their freedoms, because they must be able to decide where and when to charge their vehicles. These are things that are forgotten in the debate. I understand that the dossier will be on the table in the coming months. These issues will certainly be dealt with in the debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u84	Mrs Matz, your question has not been attached, but it is a bit similar.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u85	Madam President, Minister, my question is particularly about the construction sector and its workers, who are forced to use the company's vehicles to get to the construction sites. These vehicles are used only in professional and non-private settings. According to an interpretation of the tax administration, since 2016, workers who use a company vehicle alone to go to the same site for more than 40 days a year are subject to payment by the ATN. In many large companies, construction sites obviously last more than 40 days a year, sometimes even several years. It is therefore very common for the number of working days on the same site to exceed 40 days. The situation would be different if the worker went first to the company to take the vehicle and then to the construction site, which makes no sense from an ecological and economic point of view. Take the example of a construction site in Charleroi, the Verviers-based company and the Liège-based worker. It is obvious that he will travel less kilometres and save time by directly using the company's vehicle to connect his home to the construction site, from Liège to Charleroi, without going through the company to Verviers. But if he makes this journey for more than 40 days, he will then be subject to the payment of the ATN. Nor would the worker be subject to the payment of the ATN if he were accompanied by other workers in the vehicle. However, this is not always possible. To cite just one example, certain functions, such as machinists or grutiers, practice different schedules from the rest of the team and thus carry out the work alone. If the situation turns out to be correct, it is extremely penalizing for construction workers, for whom the payment of the ATN would amount to several hundred euros per year or even several thousand euros depending on the type of vehicle. And since the vehicles of the construction companies are not the smallest, the consumption of CO2 which serves as the basis for the calculation of the ATN will necessarily be more important. Minister, do you confirm the obligation to pay the ATN for the individual use of business vehicles beyond 40 days at the same site? Is there indeed an obligation? On what tax basis is it based? If it exists, do you intend to review it and take into account the very particular situation of the construction workers today? It is extremely penalizing for them and it is obviously very discriminatory with regard to full company cars that employees can use during the weekend. Minister, I would really like you to clarify this situation. Large companies in the construction sector are very concerned about this tax interpretation. I tried to look for a tax base, a law, but I couldn't find anything. Moreover, it dates back to 2016 and payment of arrears is requested for the use of these vehicles. I obviously understand the philosophy of carpooling which is much more ecological and I do not dispute it, but it happens that for a number of workers this is not possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u86	Mrs Matz, when a vehicle is made available free of charge to a worker and is used by the worker to move between his home and a place of work, this free provision actually generates an advantage of any kind (ATN) taxable in his head. The concept of a workplace as mentioned in the Income Tax Code 1992 has been interpreted from the outset as a fixed place of work. Moving from home to a fixed place of work is a travel which is the personal responsibility of the worker. It has long been accepted that a work place, if any, a work site, where a worker is employed for less than 40 days during a taxable period, should not be considered a fixed place of work. This 40-day rule is in fact an administrative rule that has been introduced for practical reasons and in order to ensure the legal certainty of taxpayers. It makes it clear whether or not a workplace can be considered a fixed place of work, while avoiding sterile discussions. As an exception to the above, where all the conditions of collective transport organized by the employer are met, the ATN, in the driver's head, may, under certain conditions, be regarded as an exempt social benefit. The difference in tax treatment between workers who have an employer's vehicle allowing them to go directly from their home to the construction site and those who first have to go to the company's headquarters by their own means and then move to the construction site, is justified when the former saves the cost of travel to the company's headquarters.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u87	Minister, I confess that I do not understand very well: why is it now, since the beginning of the year (since March) that some tax controllers are demanding this from businesses, arguing that the "40-day rule" has been running since 2016. I'm gonna call him that to simplify. They owe the arrears since the beginning of the year, but knowing that the covid rules, in addition, prevented being several in a vehicle. It's completely aberrant! Why is it now that tax auditors are demanding this backlog and the benefit of any kind (ATN) from workers who meet the 40-day test? You say, if I have understood correctly, that it comes from an administrative practice in order to ensure legal certainty, but I do not see what legal certainty it is. For the moment, these workers are being plunged into a situation that will cost them much more than before. This is therefore an interpretation of a practice that I do not understand, and I want to tell these companies and workers to challenge this administrative practice. You're referring to the IRC. If the question of domicile and 40 days exists in social law, I find no trace of it in tax law as such. I therefore really wonder about the relevance of this rule and, above all, why it is now that these companies are beginning to be indebted. Some clear the backlog for their workers for the past, knowing that, for the future, it will of course be on their own. Others won't. So we are going back to 2016 to claim thousands of euros from workers who were not informed. You're talking about legal certainty, but that rule is the other way around. This really is an injustice to some people who benefit from a full-fledged corporate vehicle regime and who are being claimed an TNC. In this case, this is not a full company vehicle regime, since these workers do not benefit from the advantage of a service vehicle on weekends, public holidays and evenings. I confess that I do not understand your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u88	Madam President, you can see that this is a priority for our group, since my colleague, Dieter Vanbesien, will also question the minister. Minister, as you know, U.S. President Joe Biden has reinvigorated discussions on the taxation of multinationals, including the taxation of digital giants. At the beginning of the year, the US administration proposed the introduction of a minimum rate of 21%. This tax reform is based on two pillars. First, allow a country to tax a multinational even if it does not have a physical presence on its territory. Secondly, to introduce a minimum tax on multinationals in order to limit tax evasion through a whole series of niches that we all know. In our view, this is obviously a question of tax justice, but also of justice, the aim being to redistribute the fruits of the work of some large companies which do not pay or far too few taxes in our countries. Joe Biden wants to target all multinationals and not just digital or tech multinationals. It also hopes to reduce the number of enterprises covered by the system of redistribution of profits between countries. The European Commission recently adopted a communication showing that Europe does not oppose this restriction of the scope of taxation. The Commission admits that it has concentrated on companies active in the digital sector. However, the proposed solution could be simplified with a smaller number of multinationals within the scope. The Commission also stated that it wished to introduce another tax, namely a digital levy completely independent of the ongoing discussions. This tax would seem to target companies smaller than multinationals. Mr Minister, my group is pleased that discussions on the taxation of multinationals have resumed and are as lively at international level, whether at the OECD, the European Union or the G7 level. In this context, what is Belgium's position? It is well known that this principle is supported in the government agreement, but I would like more details about it. I am thinking in particular of the ambitious proposal for a minimum rate of 21 % for the taxation of multinationals. Indeed, it is known that other countries, particularly European ones, are rather in favour of a tax rate of 15%. As far as we are concerned, we stand for the most ambitious position. What is the status of the discussions on this subject and what are the short-term prospects as a decision is being made for July next? What about this additional tax, i.e. digital Levy? What are the contours? What position will you defend, on behalf of the Belgian Government, at European level?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u89	Madam President, Minister, on the same subject, I would have liked to ask a question about the Irish Finance Minister, Paschal Donohoe, who, on 26 May, said in an interview that Ireland had significant objections to the proposal by US President Joe Biden. Mr Donohoe claimed that in Ireland for a long time a corporation tax of 12,5 %, one of the lowest within the OECD, would still apply. Ireland is therefore trying to make itself economically interesting for multinationals because of its low tax rates and targeted tax advantages. It's been known for a long time. This policy now involves, among other things, an investigation into illegal state aid in a case before the European Court of Justice. The only way in which countries like Ireland will stop their race to the bottom on tax rules is by removing incentives through minimum international agreements. How can Ireland take such a stand unilaterally? Is there not a coordinated position within the European Union in response to President Biden's communication? If there is such a negotiating position, how exactly does the Irish Finance Minister's communication fit in with that? What is your response to Ireland's position? In what way will you try to bring Ireland to the understanding that a higher minimum company rate than that in Ireland is necessary and advantageous for everyone?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u90	Madam President, Mr Vanden Burre, as you rightly point out, negotiations are being actively pursued within the OECD with a view to reaching political agreement on the reform of international tax rules for multinationals by mid-2021. In this regard, the evolution of the position of the United States is very encouraging, although many technical issues remain to be resolved. The Biden administration has recently made new proposals for draft Pillar 1, particularly in terms of scope, which are currently being analysed in detail by the OECD working groups. The European Union has so far left the initiative to the OECD, but this does not mean that it renounces its right to take its own initiatives in this area. The Commission has already announced that if no agreement is reached at OECD level before the target date, it will itself make new proposals whose content is not yet known. In addition to the announced reform of the international tax rules, the Commission has received a mandate from the Heads of Government of the Member States to draw up a separate digital tax, called digital Levy, or, in French, a digital tax. This tax would constitute a new source of revenue for the European Union. As the European Commission has not yet put forward a concrete proposal, it is premature to take a decision on the subject. Negotiations at international level on the introduction of a minimum level of corporate tax worldwide are currently at a crucial stage. In this respect, it is not unusual for certain countries to make their position on the minimum rate publicly known and thus try to influence the outcome of the negotiations. Despite the fact that the Member States of the European Union are trying to take a coordinated position as far as possible, each Member State is still sovereign in terms of direct taxation and thus entitled, like any other country, to determine its position independently in the context of these international negotiations. I remain convinced that an agreement on a minimum level of corporate taxation worldwide is possible between all 139 countries of the so-called Inclusive Framework. Belgium will continue to contribute constructively to the work carried out at international and, where appropriate, at European level. This will be done in accordance with the priorities set out in our coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u91	Thank you, Minister. We fully agree that this is an encouraging position of the United States. Honestly, we were almost surprised to see such an ambition when President Biden made these proposals at the international level. We welcome this, of course, especially since the impact for Belgium is likely to be significant. According to some studies, it is several billion euros that could come back to Belgium. On behalf of my group, I can of course only encourage you and encourage the government to put in the debate the most ambitious positions, whether at the rate level – I mentioned the 21% – or at the level of the base and type of taxation, whether digital or otherwise, so that we can bring these ambitions together, at European and international level. This is a matter of solidarity, but it is also a matter of funding our public services and social security for the years and decades to come. So this is a crucial debate, which comes into a key moment, as you said, and which we will follow with great interest.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u92	Minister, international taxation is popular today. It is increasingly and increasingly on the agenda. Economists and opinion makers talk about it. President Biden has put a huge spotlight on it. It's part of our coalition agreement. The corona crisis could be the catalyst for finally achieving results. We are therefore counting on you to guide our country through this process and these negotiations with the highest possible ambition. We wish you every success in that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u93	I'm gonna have to go. May I ask Mr. Van Hees to preside in my place and place to pursue the series of questions? Before that, I give the floor to Mr Vanden Burre for his question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u94	Minister, as you know, the tax deductions for donations to the NSAs had increased in 2020, obviously because of the covid-19 epidemic, with a further deduction of the benefits from 45% to 60%. Since the constraints and negative effects of the covid did not stop on 1 January 2021, very far from there, and since many of the non-profit organizations have seen their reserves melt for a year, it would be interesting, in our view, to renew this measure for the recognized non-profit organisations for 2021. It is also a proposal defended by the economist Etienne de Callataÿ in a carte blanche of 21 May in Free Belgium. As it is he who carries this message, I still wanted to quote it by correction. I don't think I have to convince you of the relevance and importance of our ASBL's missions in society. It is important to continue to support them and I know that you are attentive to them. On the other hand, as far as the cost to the public authorities is concerned, it is probably also a way of counterbalancing this expenditure with savings, because it is less expensive for the public authorities to subsidise donations to an association better than to finally have to pay the full amount of the expenditure that would have to be made if, tomorrow, a whole series of associations and ASBLs were to be in great difficulty. This is also the case with this economist. I wanted to see if you were going to propose such a measure for 2021 or if such a measure was being discussed at this stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u95	Currently, there is no consensus at government level to extend for 2021 the enhanced relief deduction measure introduced for 2020 by section 3 of the Act of 15 July 2020 on various urgent tax measures due to the covid-19 pandemic.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u96	The answer is clear. I think we can still think about it. We'll get back to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u97	Mr Ducrame tried to call, probably to ask for a postponement of his question No 55018117.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u98	Mr President, Minister, the law of April 2019 was adopted to introduce a banker's oath and a disciplinary regime linked to it. The motivation for that law is still current today. Indeed, after the 2008 crisis, confidence in the financial sector has not been fully restored. This has become clear at various times during the covid crisis. The negative reporting on the behaviour of bank employees was quickly picked up, while at the very beginning of the corona crisis banks avoided a greater economic downturn through smooth lending. So the suspicion is still there. Closing a deontological code in consultation with the sector, which complies with rules and demonstrates to the outside world that violations are sanctioned, are still important steps to restore confidence. A banker's oath is one of the measures to improve the banking sector. Both banks and citizens benefit from this. The coalition agreement and your policy statement state that a banker's oath will be implemented in accordance with that 2019 law. What is the state of play in consultation with the banking sector in order to arrive at a code of conduct? What possible points of contention or difficulties remain to be resolved? Will the Belgian banker's oath differ greatly from the banker's oath that has been in force in the Netherlands since 2015? If so, in what areas and why? When can we expect the ministerial decision to introduce the banker's oath? By when will that banker's oath become enforceable at the latest?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u99	Mr Vanbesien, you have indeed read in my policy paper that a banker's oath will be introduced in consultation with the sector and in implementation of the law adopted during the previous legislature. We are currently in contact with the FSMA, which will develop a behavioral regime and also analyse existing arrangements. You referred to the Netherlands, but the other European Member States are also being looked at. As soon as that text is available, I will discuss it with the sector, submit it to the government and then explain it here. On a deadline, I cannot give you any further information today, but we are trying to move the discussion and the dossier forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u100	Minister, the banker's oath is one of the last laws passed during the previous legislature. It is a way of increasing public confidence in the big banks. During and after the financial crisis, this was absolutely necessary, and even now, in a new crisis where the banks and the financial world are not involved as such, there is once again a feeling of mistrust. This is also not remedied by anecdotes on some of the credit applications in the past few months. So a banker's oath can help to strengthen that trust. The law is now two years old and its introduction has been partially delayed. I can't put a deadline on it, but I hope this asap can be introduced.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u101	Minister, in 2020, I asked your predecessor if it was possible for the FPS Finance to securely allow the physical sitting days, which the service normally organises, to continue. In normal times, these moments are organized in cities and municipalities, to help people physically fill out their tax returns. We know that there is a great need for this help. In 2019, 620,000 Belgians used the service. Language barriers and the complexity of the tax return ensure that the telephone help offered by the FPS Finance today is not enough for many people. In 2020, your predecessor argued that the increasing number of simplified declaration proposals meant that physical services were also less necessary. However, in 2021, this number was reduced following warnings from the Ombudsman that the proposals contain too many errors, mostly to the detriment of the taxpayer. Today, the situation is different than in 2020. The vaccination rate is increasing considerably and our knowledge of the virus and our ability to handle it safely are also greater. Today we can also better assess the importance of physical sessions. That's why I have a few questions for you. Will you still consider organizing physical sitting days with the cities and municipalities that indicate that they can experience the sitting days as necessary and guarantee safe working conditions? Has there been consultation between the FPS Finance and the big cities and municipalities, to organise physical sitting days in a safe way? What was the outcome of that meeting? Why was it eventually chosen not to let the sitting days go on? How do you assess the impact of the absence of physical sitting days on the accuracy of the tax returns submitted in 2020? How do you evaluate the telephone assistance provided in 2020? Does the FPS Finance often rely on language barriers? In what areas will the FPS adjust the telephone service in the light of the 2020 experience? Finally, do you agree with me that it is an undesirable situation that the most vulnerable, who are most dependent on physical services, will also suffer the most financially if no sitting days are organised? I look forward to your opinion on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u102	Mr Minister, I would like to join the previous speaker. After all, we all know that no physical sitting days could take place in 2020 and that there was a telephone support. What is the evaluation of that? For 2021, telephone assistance will continue. There was also a demand for physical contact moments. I understand, Minister, that yesterday you communicated that there will still be physical contact, which is a good thing. We have the following questions. Is there gonna be extra capacity? Is there any special communication around? How exactly does this work? Is there attention to the people most vulnerable?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u103	Minister, I have also read with interest your interview in Humo. It's a very sympathetic interview. You're here for all the people, as mayor. This is indeed about the people, about the problem of the physical sitting days of the FPS Finance. You were very quick to respond to the poverty groups. You said it was important to make a telephone appointment before 30 June 2021 for physical sitting days that would be renewed in September. Then I immediately realized that this might be about people asking for a postponement of the report. How exactly am I supposed to understand that? The first deadline for the declaration is already 30 June 2021, the second deadline is 15 July 2021. So it is not about people who work with a mandate holder and who have until the autumn.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u104	Mr President, I have a very long preparation, but I am going to deviate from that. After all, I consider the subject you have raised to be particularly important. That is why I would like to explain the situation and explain why I made this decision. In the first instance, only telephone support was possible in 2020. It has been very welcomed. There were 311,000 declarations filled out with telephone help. In addition, additional 225,000 calls were received in the period May-June 2020, the period of the declaration and the proposal received by taxpayers. So we can say in itself that this was evaluated in a very positive way. Secondly, in the preparation of this declaration season it was intended that the FPS Finance would proceed in a similar way, just for the sake of positive feedback. In doing so, people would be proactively contacted, even before the tax letter arrived, to make an appointment to help them complete the tax letter this year. It was perfectly possible to call the people in April, before the declaration season, with the request to schedule an appointment because they had also used telephone help last year. I found it particularly important that there was more possible than last year and that there was also physical support available. This decision was taken in March, at a time when we did not yet know how the corona crisis would evolve. We didn't know if there would be a lot of problems left, which would make it difficult to offer physical support. That is why it was decided in March that everyone could make an appointment. These agreements will take place in September because there will be fewer risks and everyone will be vaccinated. The reason we're asking to make an appointment by June 30 is clear, I think. In this way we know that the tax letter from someone who did not submit but made an appointment will be introduced in September. On the one hand, I want to make it clear that it is very important for me that physical support is possible. As mayor, I know how important these local seating days are. I also understand that it is even difficult for some very vulnerable people to just make phone calls. For this reason, we have made an agreement with the local authorities that people can come to the OCMW's premises to call the FPS Finance Office. So we have also made this support possible. Of course, next year, when it will be possible again, it is the intention to organise the local sitting days. Just so we're clear, this takes a lot of time from the FPS Treasury. I think that support is very important. Just think about the people who book the appointments. By telephone, about seventy employees are working on this for almost two and a half months. About 830 employees help fill out the declarations over the phone. In the autumn we will have the physical meetings, which, while only taking place in the premises of the FPS Finance Office, will allow us to use the right spaces for the safety of our employees. We have tried, I would like to stress, to give everyone the opportunity to get the best possible support and to find an appropriate solution with the FPS Finance.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u105	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am pleased to hear you say that you take it personally and understand the importance of it. We must be very careful to reduce certain services, because we easily miss vulnerable groups. I welcome your answer that there can be more than last year and that there is a possibility of being physically helped. The procedure will be a little confusing, because we have to make an appointment before 30 June, for an appointment in September. Communication on this will be very important, no, crucial. Local authorities will have to make a very strong contribution to this. We will also help and promote this arrangement as well as possible. Thank you for your thought in that direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u106	I agree with you, Minister. The vision you have put forward is a credit to you. In this way, a very pragmatic solution was found to a pressing problem for a certain category of people. I agree with your call to make sure that the necessary communication is done and to see a partner in the municipal authorities and the OCMWs.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u107	Minister, that clarification was very interesting. My colleague mentioned "confusion." The press said "somewhat confusing work." I am therefore pleased that you indicate that contacting before 30 June means that people can physically go for their tax returns in September. There was also a rightful attention due to the poverty organisations for the plan to be able to get a paper report. The reality check shows that a number of people continue to experience difficulties with the digitisation process.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u108	Mr President, Minister, my last question today is about a report that I received from someone for whom the tax relief for gifts is much lower than expected. In theory, a tax reduction of 60% of the amount given to charities can be obtained under certain conditions for the tax year 2021. That was one of the measures we introduced last year. In the case of spouses, the tax relief is calculated proportionally according to the share of both spouses in the common taxable income. This may mean that the tax relief granted effectively is less than the amount obtained by looking at the case from the income of only one of the two spouses. Suppose Jan has an income of 10,000 euros and Els of 50,000 euros, together that is 60,000 euros. Suppose their donations allow them to deduct 600 euros from their taxes. That is 100 euros for Jan and 500 euros for Els, proportional to the income. Since Jan does not have to pay taxes on his taxable income, the couple is only entitled to the tax relief of about 500 euros from Els. Jan's share of the tax relief can only be deducted from the taxes he should have actually paid. If Els had carried out the donations as a single person, she would have been entitled to a tax reduction of EUR 600. Can you confirm that your administration effectively calculates the tax relief for spouses according to the method described above, or is it an error in the Tax-on-web application? In the hypothesis that it is not tax-on-web, do you believe that this method of calculation is at odds with the principle of equality when we compare the injured wife with a single person who carries out the donations? Will you amend the law so that the effective tax advantage for spouses is in any case as close as possible to the percentage they are entitled to? Do you believe that citizens are sufficiently aware of this arrangement? Will you encourage the FPS Finance to better inform people about this, including the example described above, on the gift information pages?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u109	Mr President, Mr Vanbesien, in a common attack, the tax relief for gifts is indeed divided in proportion to each spouse's jointly taxed income compared to the total jointly taxed income of both spouses. This is also laid down by the legislator in the Income Tax Code 1992. My administration is correctly implementing that provision. The principle of a tax reduction is that it is charged on the tax due. If the remaining tax is insufficient to fully charge the tax relief, part of that benefit will be lost. The same principle also applies to a single person. If it is entitled to a tax reduction and its residual tax is insufficient, some of the tax advantage will be lost there too. I do not intend to change the law on this point at the moment. The mechanism of the marriage quotient allows in the majority of cases to enjoy the full benefit already. Moreover, this charge is common to the majority of the current tax reductions. In connection with the donations and the demand for communication, that effect is also explained in the FAQ published on the website of the FPS Finance under the link Private Individuals, Tax Benefits, Gifts. So three clicks and you know the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u110	Mr Minister, my question is based on an actual case. It probably won't happen that often, but it's still a pity. Last year we temporarily increased the tax deduction for gifts, from 45% to 60%. The intention was to convince people to donate more than usual, to compensate for the negative effects of corona on NGOs and charities. That's effective what happened in this case. The organisations themselves have campaigned explicitly on this issue and so there are people who have effectively donated more through this rule. If it now turns out that this way of calculating the tax relief is much different than expected, then that will violate their confidence. I particularly hope that next year they will not reduce their donations to compensate for the difference. I hear there will be no initiative on your part in the short term. Perhaps we will see for ourselves whether we can take initiative.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u111	Minister, donations to cultural institutions are subject to a tax reduction. In order to benefit from this tax relief, those cultural institutions must be recognised by the FPS Finance. Many of the cultural institutions have already been recognised by the Department of Culture of the relevant Länder. Sometimes these two come into conflict, especially when a cultural institution is recognised in a state, but not by the FPS Finance. This leads to incomprehension, because a similar situation is assessed differently. It also plays a part in the fact that the cultural institutions are having a difficult time in the present period. To an earlier question, one of your predecessors, then Minister Van Overtveldt, replied that recognition by a community does not automatically mean that the institution is also recognised as an institution for which the gifts are eligible for tax relief. He didn't want to change the arrangement either. Mr Minister, can you explain why socio-cultural institutions are not recognised as institutions that can receive duty-free gifts, even if they comply with partial recognition? How do you intend to deal with that? Could decisions possibly be coordinated?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u112	Mr Matheï, organisations wishing to be recognised as cultural institutions must meet a number of conditions. According to the legal and regulatory provisions, the opinion must be sought from the Community government concerned, but in the current state of the legislation that opinion is not binding. The conditions laid down by the competent Community Minister, by which the associations obtain recognition and subsidy for their operation, differ from the conditions for a federal tax reduction by the donors. Recognition in a Community does not imply automatic recognition by my administration in the current state of regulation. If an examination shows that all general and specific conditions of approval have not been met, the institution shall also be informed thereof. I am very aware of the problem of the recognition of cultural institutions in the context of the tax relief for gifts. I am sure that you will find an ally in me to deal with this problem and to find a structural solution in accordance with the ratio legis of the Royal Decree of 3 August 1983. At the time, the recognition test was transferred by the Communities to finance and strict recognition conditions were introduced.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u113	Thank you for your answer. We need to know what is going on. It must not be judged differently for similar institutions, because that only leads to confusion. I am pleased that you are a partner to clarify this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u114	The President: Mr Francken's 55018262C question was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u115	Minister, it is exactly ten years since Arco fell this year. The investment vehicle of the ACW had largely invested in Dexia. When Dexia got into trouble because of the financial crisis, Arco eventually went down. More than 800,000 small Flemish savers saw their money go up in smoke, together accounting for 1.5 billion euros. It is one of the biggest financial scandals in Belgian history. Attempts by the federal government to compensate for that loss bumped into legitimate legal objections. Thousands of co-ops have now gone to court, and this month the first case will start before the Brussels Corporate Court. There is also a second case before the Court of First Instance against Belfius and the Belgian State. Movement.net, the former ACW, remained out of the loop until recently, but that is now changing. They're being subpoenaed now, too. Moreover, the Flemish Interest fully understands that Beweging.net is being subpoenaed today. They had put all the investments in a single post, Dexia's, which wasn't really wise. Arco's co-operatives were also misled about the risk of those investments. In addition, the former ACW has some savings jars abroad. I'll come to the essence. The Arco file will certainly be on the government table again. However, there was no need for this in the coalition agreement because there are still legal proceedings in progress. That's what CD&V chairman Joachim Coens said in the seventh day. Minister, I asked you this question last week in plenary, but you did not want to answer it. That's why I'm going to repeat them here. How far do we have to go with that? Was there any mention of the file in the government at all? Is the file gonna be on the government table? Have you spoken to your colleagues about this? Will you, as Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance, put the file on the government table?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u116	As regards the judicial procedure to which you refer, the decisions of 11 October 2017 in a court case determine the start of the legal days on Wednesday 9 June 2021. That hasn't changed. Neither has the situation changed since the debate in plenary on Friday 2 October 2020. The court proceedings will take place. The Belgian State is one of the parties against which an action is brought. In this sense, the court's ruling will be discussed, if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u117	Thank you, Minister, for the short and concise answer. The subpoena of ACW or Beweging.net is a logical step for the small savers who were shamelessly deceived when buying their shares. The way in which the cheated shareholders have been treated by successive governments also defies any imagination. First there was the empty promise of the state guarantee. After that, then Minister of Finance, Koen Geens of CD&V would guarantee the repayment in a subsequent coalition agreement. That didn't work out. For the Flemish Interest, the way in which purple-green deals with the matter, or doesn't do it, is worse if possible than that word breach. The fact that the unelected Annelies Verlinden, who had acted as a lawyer on behalf of the Belgian State, became minister in this case, was an additional blow to the face of all Arco savers. The coalition agreement does not mention the Arco case. Today, too, we have received a very limited answer. One pretends that the problem simply doesn't exist. For the Flemish Interest it is clear that the blame lies solely with Beweging.net, the former ACW. Under no circumstances should the taxpayer bear the brunt of this. The ACW deceived the savers with the lie that it was a responsible and risk-free investment. However, it could not be more irresponsible. Dexia only invested in high-risk products. The case should have been solved by now. Movement.net, which now invests in tax havens, also has the means to compensate each of the savers it has cheated on.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u118	Minister, you did not want to answer this question in plenary, but I think it is fundamental. That's why I'm putting them up again today. After all, this is a fundamental principle. During last week's plenary session, the chairman of our committee, who has now left because of another obligation, made a firm plea for the principle of the least-burdened road. In your policy statement, however, we read something else: "The new tax system must be designed in such a way as to minimise or discourage the possibilities of optimization with a view to correct application of the tax." That passage on tax optimisation suggests that you want to reverse the principle, namely a choice of the most demanding road, Minister. So my question is very clear: do the Minister of Finance and the Government stick to the principle of the least-burdened road? With a view to fiscal calm, it is absolutely necessary to clarify whether this fundamental tax principle is maintained with this government or is going to go down the road. Can you at last clarify this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u119	Indeed, the coalition agreement states that the new tax system must be designed in such a way as to minimise or discourage the possibility of optimisation in order to correct the application of the tax. This does not mean, however, that the principle of the least taxed road will be replaced by the principle of the most taxed road, as you are suggesting here. The guiding principle of the broader tax reform fits in with the international evolution of transparency, equal treatment and a level playing field. This evolution is reflected in the work of the OECD, think the project on the taxation of digital players and the minimum tax, and in that of the European Commission, with the successive DACs (Directive on Administrative Cooperation). These are all intended to close tax optimisation routes when it is found that the taxable person is on unintended routes to reduce his tax burden. This is also perfectly in line with Title 2.7: "Fair taxation and correct collection" of the coalition agreement. This is reinforced by the need for economic recovery after the covid pandemic. After the crisis, it cannot be argued that a tax system would allow the contribution to that recovery to be reduced to a minimum for purely tax purposes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u120	Minister, you say that the government does not impose the most burdened road, but it was sufficiently clear that the government would end the choice of the least burdened road. You have not made it clear whether that principle remains valid. You said you didn't choose the most burdened road, but you didn't reaffirm that principle. You did not do that in plenary last week, and you did not do that today, of which you are aware. I understand that with this government and with you as Minister of Finance, that principle is definitely going down.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u121	Minister, the taxation of unemployment is a concern for many workers. In its opinion on the PTB's proposal for a law, the CSC states that a total of 1.4 million workers will regain the - not necessarily negative - impact of temporary unemployment on their role-extract warning. On 12 May last, in plenary session, my colleague Gaby Colebunders asked you about the subject and suggested that you apply a separate tax at the rate of 16.5%, as is done for the right bridge of crisis of the self-employed. You replied: "The simulations showed that the lowest incomes would not be affected. In many cases, the amounts reimbursed to workers on the lowest incomes are even higher than they would have received if they had not been put into temporary unemployment. Today's proposal by Mr Colebunders would increase precisely the tax bill for the lowest income." Minister, do you think that section 171 of the Income Tax Code does not adequately protect the taxpayer from any risk of increased tax by applying a separate tax on temporary unemployment benefits? Do you confirm the figure of the CSC of 1.4 million workers affected by temporary unemployment in 2020? For how many of these will this impact result in an increase in the tax supplement in the role-extract warning? What would be the budgetary cost of applying a separate tax at the rate of 15% of temporary unemployment benefits?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u122	Van Hees, a separate tax under section 171 of the Income Tax Code of 1992 protects the taxpayer in the sense that the separate rate is applicable unless the overall tax with the other income of the taxpayer is more favourable. However, applying a separate rate of 16.5% to temporary unemployment benefits would mean that workers with low wages who continued to work during the covid-19 crisis would ultimately bear a higher tax burden and receive a lower net income than workers who were put into temporary unemployment and therefore did not work during the same period. This situation would not be acceptable. On the basis of the figures from the ONEM, I can confirm that 1.39 million people received temporary unemployment benefits in the year 2020. It should be noted that these persons did not always receive 5 days/5 of unemployment benefits. Various options and combinations are possible. Some have received unemployment benefits only one day a week. Since taxpayers have not yet filed their 2021 tax year return, it is not possible to provide you with an adequate response. Indeed, the final balance of the extract-of-role warning (AER) takes into account other taxable income, i.e. property, movable and miscellaneous income. In addition, tax reductions also have an impact on the final balance. All these elements are not yet known which does not allow a representative calculation. In addition, I would point out to you that, in addition to taxpayers who will have a balance to pay on the RAEs, others will receive a lower refund because they do not benefit from a reduction in the professional discount. In the 2019 tax year, 53% of the returns resulted in a refund to the taxpayer and 29% of the returns resulted in an additional tax payable. The remaining 18% are returns with a zero final balance. For the reasons mentioned above, it is not possible to estimate the budgetary impact of separate taxation at 16.5% of temporary unemployment benefits. In addition, these are not specifically reported on the declaration since there is no specific code for temporary unemployment benefits in the PPI declaration. These are combined with other unemployment benefits.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u123	Minister, you confirm that section 151 of the Income Tax Code protects taxpayers and when a separate application is contemplated, if overall taxation is more advantageous, there is no separate application of taxation. You have repeated several times that there was a risk for the lowest income to pay more taxes with a separate tax and so you are confirming today that what you said was wrong. Fortunately, there is this safeguard measure found in the Income Tax Code. For the rest, I repeat once again the need, and indeed the urgency, to legislate in this area so that the many people who were unemployed in 2020 do not suffer a double penalty since they have already suffered the first penalty of a loss of income, the unemployment benefits being lower than the wage received. The double penalty would be to have to pay additional taxes in 2021.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u124	Minister, in its May 2021 edition, Flash Info Finance, the FPS CGSP's Finance newsletter, pins the film Finflex distributed to FPS staff and deals with the future change in the different work schedules possible for staff. The SPF management points out about the content of this film that "it has not yet been validated" and that "it is still under negotiation with the trade unions". That is where the problem lies. Why is a film broadcast on measures that are not yet definitive? I quote the union's newsletter: "The question is therefore why this video is already being shown to employees. As far as content is concerned, there is also a lot of criticism to make on this video. It is incomplete and unilateral. It looks like a propaganda movie. The film is incomplete because, in particular, it takes up only the main principles and does not say anything about the fact that the system proposed without recording working time implies, for those who choose it, the introduction of a 40-hour working week! This means that the employees who would opt for this solution should actually take the twelve days of "additional" compensation. (...) What we are actually doing here is increasing the number of hours of work per week!" The CGSP's bulletin adds that "the film is biased because it does not mention the European Court of Justice's judgment on compulsory registration of working hours. (...) The proposed new system, Finflex, makes this time recording system an individual choice (and therefore not an obligation) for FPS Finance agents." Another criticism of the union bulletin is: "The organization of working time must be part of a labour regulation. This work regulation has been mandatory for many years and yet the FPS Finance still does not have it." Minister, is it normal for the FPS Finance to broadcast a film on a project on which social consultation has not been completed, presenting management's vision and omitting union criticism? Is it normal to introduce a working time increase to 40 hours per week? Is it normal to violate the obligation to register hours of work? Is it normal that the FPS Finances does not have a working regulation?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u125	Mr Van Hees, the video concerned is a recording of an in-house presentation of the Personnel & Organisation management department during which the new schedule project is presented to P&O colleagues by those who contributed to the project. The status of this file is therefore educational and informative for the staff involved in the current consultation process and has been clarified several times during the presentation. Of course, the administration regrets this out-of-context dissemination. As the new schedule is being negotiated, it is premature to talk about a possible outcome. However, reference can be made to the Federal Public Service (FPS) Strategy and Support Working Rules, which already contain this principle. The FPS Finance is following current regulations. The Civil Service shall discuss the scope of the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union with the social partners in the framework of Committee P, with a view to proposing the necessary amendments to the Regulation, if necessary. The FPS Finance has internal circulars covering all chapters and items of the Working Rules. The consolidation of these circulars in a single document has been the subject of continuous social consultation for many years now. The administration shall make every effort to finalize this Regulation in accordance with the social dialogue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u126	Thank you, Minister. I take note of the regrets expressed by the administration regarding the out-of-context distribution of this video on a project that is not finalized, which is also rather partial. I also take note of the fact that disputes are taking place with regard to the judgment of the European Court of Justice, in order to try to find a solution. With regard to the absence of a consolidated working regulation, I take note of the fact that consultation is taking place to try to finalize this consolidation. Although this is a work that spans several years, it is surprising that it takes so much time to achieve this consolidation. I guess we'll make it one day.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u127	Minister, the newspaper Le Soir of 31 May, yesterday, published an important file on an alleged tax evasion of the inheritance rights of wealthy heirs of AB InBev, which was investigated by the Special Tax Inspectorate (SI). This succession was organized using various bank accounts, companies and foundations housed in tax havens: British Virgin Islands, Panama, Liechtenstein, Switzerland, Luxembourg. The latter country is also concerned with an alleged false domicile of the deceased Viscountess, the succession having been opened in Luxembourg rather than in Belgium. The large Belgian shareholder families controlling the multinational AB InBev, from Spoelberch et al., are real "serial fraudsters", which are found in most of the "Leaks", "Papers" and other major tax scandals. In fact, the work of various specialised economists, including Gabriel Zucman, shows that the probability of tax evasion is considerably higher among the richest households, especially at the top of the pyramid: the richest 0.01%. Applying Mr Zucman's analyses to Belgium, it can be inferred that a household of the richest 0.01% fraud on average €5.3 million per year, 26,000 times more than a household belonging to the poorest 50%. Minister, given the extent of fraud and the magnitude of the amounts involved - among the richest 0.01% (about 500 households with assets of more than €50 million) - should the FPS Finance not have a tax control unit targeted at these households, as recommended by the OECD? Of the five tax havens cited by Le Soir in the case in question, only one is included in the Belgian list contained in Article 179, AR/CIR 92: namely, the British Virgin Islands. Shouldn't this list be reviewed so that it is more in line with reality? In this case, there is a question of a false Luxembourg domicile. Do you have any information on the extent of this type of practice in our neighbour's territory? Should we not consider working with Luxembourg to combat these false domiciliations?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u128	Mr Van Hees, this issue has been dealt with within the framework of the current structure and regulation - which demonstrates its effectiveness. As a result of the government agreement and the Minister of Finance's statement to consolidate expertise in private, complex and international construction, such a unit has been established within the ISI-CAF. The list of tax havens is drawn up on the basis of the parameters mentioned in the legislation, not on the basis of statements in the press. International developments in the fight against non-cooperative jurisdictions are in full swing. I refer you to the OECD negotiations on this issue. The investigation into the above-mentioned file is under way. It must be concluded before there can be any question of established legal facts. Any agreement on this matter would therefore be premature.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u129	Minister, thank you for your answer. You say that the current organization is demonstrating its effectiveness in the matter at hand. But this is a case that has been reported in the press. The number of cases missed is unknown due to the absence of a cell focusing on 0.01%. You talked about another cell that was created, but I didn't quite understand what it was about. Finally, you said that the list of tax havens was not made up on the basis of the information disclosed in the press. But, like what happened with the LuxLeaks and other Papers' files, it has to be noted that it has made it possible to increase, in a way, the fight against tax havens and major tax fraud when the actions of the authorities were more or less lacking. The press therefore plays a very positive role in the fight against this major tax fraud. You should have more consideration for his work!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u130	Mr President, Minister, after twelve years, economist Geert Noels leaves the ten-member management board of the Royal Gift. However, he did a noble job: he helped to reduce costs and raise new revenues, including the construction of a luxurious residential care center in Ostend. In his letter of resignation, Noels writes: "... that the Royal Gift today faces important challenges in other areas, especially in terms of management and transparency. In order to meet these challenges, vigorous action is required in a single administrative body. Based on our interactions over the past few years, I have come to the conclusion that others are better placed than myself to manage that next phase of the transformation of the Gift." Probably sources confirm to De Tijd that Mr. Noels could no longer live with the dysfunctions and outdated plowings of the Gift. A discussion of principle had to do with the figure of Leopold II. Geert Noels was on the board alone with his call to distance himself from Leopold II. However, most administrators seemed to glorify their role in Belgian history earlier. The differences of opinion were also about the operation of the Gift itself. It would treat its staff substandardly, both in terms of remuneration and framework. The mechanism of the Gift also targets Noels in the management board. As he boarded new revenues, there was no brake on the costs paid to improve royal property. With four members of the Court on the board of directors, the royal family has a firm grip on the Gift, while the Gift lets other properties, such as her farmhouses in the Ardennes, where ordinary people live, perish. Also a proposal by Hans D'Hondt, who is the top man of the FPS Finance Board, to transfer a large part of the heritage that the royal family does not use, to the Government of the Buildings, fell to the rest of the board on a cold stone. In addition, the royal domain in Laeken of 180 hectares is not opened to the general public. Laeken is 49 % owned by the State and 51 % of the Gift. I have a few questions on this, Minister. Has the Board of Directors of the Royal Gift already come together? What position have the federal representatives taken there? How can the aforementioned dysfunctions and differences of opinion regarding the Royal Gift be met, particularly with regard to the lack of transparency and the transfer of costs to taxpayers? Geert Noels is still listed as an administrator on the FPS Finance website. Can that be adjusted and when will that happen?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u131	Mr President, Mr Vermeersch, Geert Noels' resignation was submitted by letter dated 19 April 2021. That letter does not contain the various elements mentioned in the press article. I shall therefore not go into the interpretation given by the journalist. The Management Board has not met since this letter, but the directors were informed about the dismissal. The questions concerning the actions of the Royal Gift and other concrete elements can be discussed in detail at the planned hearing of this committee with representatives of the Royal Gift. Appointment and dismissal of directors of the Royal Gift shall be by royal decree. The entry on the website will therefore be amended after the signature of these decisions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic494x.u132	Thank you, Minister, for your clear answer. The hearing will take place on 29 June. It has been postponed several times. Let us hope that it will be done in committee now, because I see that the press is paying due attention to the dossier. As Members of Parliament, of course, we are asking for this dossier to be dealt with. Since 1930, the Royal Gift has been an independent, public institution, under the supervision of the Minister of Finance. The Gift must be financially completely independent. The investigation by Immo Royal, from various media, shows that this is not the case 90 years later. The taxpayer is definitely paying for the Royal Gift. The Royal Gift is once again being criticized, not by outsiders, such as Immo Royal, but this time internally in the organisation, following the resignation of Mr Noels. We call on you to put things in order at last. To this end, Vlaams Belang submitted a legislative proposal. We are counting on you as the competent minister to put things in order at last.
