ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic443x.u1	Prime Minister, I am happy and interesting to discuss with you questions that I have put to you some time ago, but which I will update, shorten and pool. Firstly, the camping sector had to go to court because it was discriminated against in an unlawful manner, after which it was allowed to reopen. The government had to amend the ministerial decision accordingly. The campsites are open again. Especially those on the coast had a successful Easter holiday. Those in the interior still have a hard time, I hear, because they get a lot of their income from the catering business that they normally run at their campsite. I would also like to ask you, Mr Prime Minister, through this bridge, where the aid measures for the catering industry remain, which I have already asked the Minister of Finance. They have been announced by almost every party of the purple-green government. It is known that there will be a further VAT reduction to 6% and that something will also be done with the RSZ contributions. A VAT reduction does not need to be applied by law and can be achieved by simple royal decision, but that is not the case. For you and your government, that is a small piece of work, it has already happened in the past, you can simply copy the royal decree, but for the sector it is important that such a legislative text be produced quickly, because one has to adapt the cash register systems and organise themselves practically. It is therefore important for the campsites as well as for the catering industry. So could you ask your Minister of Finance to do that quickly? The commitment was to put the scheme in place before the catering industry reopens, but we do not hear anything about it. Secondly, operators of outdoor amusement parks have not gone to court, even though, according to my analysis, they had every reason to do so. The zoos may open, but the amusement parks may not. I have never understood that distinction: in both cases it is about outdoor activities where it has been proved that one can work in a safe way. We have now seen that there is a reopening ahead of the amusement parks. I would strongly urge you to keep it as much as possible. I'm asking that for everyone, for our three babies who would like to go to Plopsaland again. They couldn't talk about anything else the whole Easter vacation and it would be a pleasure to give them that gift anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic443x.u2	Prime Minister, you are most welcome here. We're always happy to see you. Hopefully such a meeting can be organised more quickly in the future, so that an actua debate with 23 questions can be avoided, where you will be able to identify the issues that you will discuss in greater depth. Some of my questions date back to January, fortunately this year. I will concentrate my questions and focus on a single element, because in the meantime, of course, they are somewhat out of date. The Consultative Committee has recently re-emerged, and more and more sensitivities are emerging, as far as the press is concerned, of course. From time to time this must indeed be done when it comes to the date or the price or, quite occasionally, the information provided between the rules. In fact, Minister Vandenbroucke and you had to fight against a large group of dissenters, in particular all the French-speaking members of your government, as well as those of the state governments, who may have more regard for the coronas victims other than the covid patients. Biostatistician and GEMS member Geert Molenberghs said that the obligation to close the schools a week earlier than planned was a bad idea. I think all the experts agree on that. It is therefore very strange that it has been decided, under pressure from Minister Vandenbrouwke. How do you look back on the decision to close the schools now that you have recent information and expert findings? After a year of corona crisis and far-reaching measures, can you now provide us with empirical data showing what measures had an impact on the COOVID19 infections and how? After all, the N-VA Group has been asking this question for a long time. Many of these measures were later described as symbolic or politically motivated. Following the latest meeting of the Consultative Committee, the policy will soon be changed to prepare the exit strategy. These include the removal of curfew, which would be replaced by a prohibition on cooperation. Could you give us some more information on that? What's that gonna mean? There is the abolition of the night clock on the one hand and the prohibition of cooperation on the other. In addition, there is the reopening of the catering industry, which is linked to a closing hour. Can you tell me what the link is between the closure period and the entry into the cooperation ban? There is a connection between the two. If there is too big a gap, for example, if the catering industry closes at 8 p.m. and the ban on cooperation does not enter into force until midnight, there is a four-hour gap and it will not be easy to enforce the measures. For this reason, it may be advisable to bring the two measures into line. For example, after the closure of the catering industry, it could be left for 45 minutes to one hour, so that people can comply with the prohibition on cooperation. It shouldn't take much longer. Can you tell us about the plans in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic443x.u3	I will focus on two or three questions, as we will have another topical debate. I also want to make sure that I get an answer to my three specific questions. My first question concerns the management of the epidemic and, more specifically, in companies. There were many debates on opening and closing valves. We focus on culture, horeca, youth. Decisions are made on that basis. However, Sciensano's figures show us that clusters continue to increase sharply in companies. What's more, when you listen to Mr. Van Gucht and the analysis of some of the sample studies we have done in our medical homes, we see that the site of contamination is often in companies where telework cannot be done. The problem is found in industrial butchers, industrial cleaning and fatally, in all places where your guidelines to encourage teleworking are not effective. At the same time, we learn that on the stock of 1.2 million quick tests we have, 15,000 tests were used. Can you confirm the number? I want to ask what the problem is, Prime Minister. Given the whole approach of the industry, how is it that a large part of the employer does not want quick testing? First, why is there very little talk about it, including in your communication? Then how do you see the solutions? My second question concerns the wage guarantee in case of quarantine. Many people are facing the problem. I would like to refer to a study which I believe is important and which was published in the British Medical Journal. I quote it from you, Prime Minister: "If we want to avoid the risk of economic spillovers from successive national confinements, we also need to reform emergency isolation policies in anticipation of full vaccination. Until the issue of financial support is resolved, the risk of new outbreaks of contamination and new variants will continue to increase." This corroborates a lot of testimony that I receive from people facing this issue. I have already questioned the subject of this 25 to 30 per cent loss of purchasing or quarantine power. This issue creates problems for many people. Do you find that normal? Do you not think that, as in Finland, we should be able to increase unemployment intervention from 40 % to 100 %, so that people can decide only on the basis of public health, the protection of their loved ones, and not to have to cash in a decline in purchasing power? What do you think of this claim to increase the intervention to 100%? My third important question concerns corona unemployment and taxation on the subject. Remember, your Minister of Finance has already been asked about this. But I think that is part of the overall management of the corona crisis. More and more witnesses are coming from people who, having made the simulation of their taxation, find that they will have to pay 1 000, 2 000 or even 3 000 euros. I'll take the example that was in the Latest News yesterday: 3,900 euros gross per month. That's not a big paycheck. 165 days of corona unemployment. It's what's happened all the time. How much do you have to pay to the tax authorities at the end of the year? 2,000 euros. Come on, Minister, people are already losing purchasing power during unemployment itself, and then they have to pay another EUR 2,000 to the tax authorities. I have a solution, Minister. You have made a distinction, in the context of the crisis of the coronavirus, for the independents with Circular No. 2020/C/94, which indicated to tax the bridge fee at 16.5%, in a liberatorial manner. That seemed logical to me, since the situation of the self-employed was already very difficult. Why does not the same process be put in place for employees? Why not decide to tax 15 or 16 per cent of unemployment in corona? We are in an exceptional situation. I am not talking here about tax reform as a whole. You have also set up a working group to reflect on the tax reform of personal tax (IPP). What I propose here is to make a gesture towards the employees by putting the deposit free to 15% or 16% for the corona unemployment. This could relieve a lot of people, because regularizations will happen in the coming months. Prime Minister, I would like your opinion on this. I thank you now for your answers, which I am sure will be interesting.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic443x.u4	Mr Prime Minister, my first question on non-essential travel is now also dated. I'll update it, too. Since Monday we can travel within Europe again, but it is still not recommended. At present, almost every zone in Europe is a red zone. In principle, you can travel. Outside Europe there are a lot of red zones, but they should not be traveled there at all. What is the difference between a red European zone and a red non-European zone? How long will this ban on non-essential travel be maintained outside Europe? Currently, a one-week quarantine obligation applies to travel within Europe. If people go on vacation for one or two weeks and then have to go into quarantine for one week, that scares them off. Why is the green vaccination certificate, as it is currently in the pipeline in Europe, which can be obtained from, among other things, a negative test, not at the moment when you return from holiday? Then why do people have to quarantine another week? My second question concerned possible bilateral agreements. We have seen and still see that several countries agree bilateral agreements on the basis of which their inhabitants are allowed to travel to the country in question, without always having any additional obligations. What is our position on this? Does Belgium intend to conclude such bilateral agreements or not? If so, under what criteria would that happen?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic443x.u5	Mr President, Prime Minister, I would like to ask you about a particular decision of the last Codeco of 14 April, which aims to reopen the terraces of l'horeca from 8 May 2021, because it does not respond to the economic and social distress of the Horeca sector, nor to the growing need to supervise the exits of our fellow citizens. Nor does it respond to the call made a few days earlier by experts Clumeck, Belkhir and Gilbert to develop this famous safe label that would allow restaurateurs and renters to resume their activities both outside and within their establishments in complete safety. With this measure, we therefore remain in a sector-by-sector logic where we refuse to trust institutions individually. In doing so, the Codeco puts in great difficulty those establishments which do not have terraces – it is estimated that they represent 60% in the country and 25% in Brussels and they still have no prospect of recovery – but also those which have terraces but which will resume under uneconomic conditions, even at a loss, due to the constraints linked to the limited size of the terraces or to the Belgian weather. Only 10 to 15 per cent of restaurants have a terrace that would meet the constraints of table spacing that were in effect at the last definity last June. Local initiatives are being taken, such as in the City of Brussels, where we are heading for a new extension of the terraces and where pilot experiments have been launched. The federal government, for its part, must also take on its choices, including its refusal to invest in a true logic of risk management. In the meantime, a new Concertation Committee is announced for this Friday, which would be responsible not for reviewing the agenda for the deconfinement that has been announced to us – I hope, at least – but for defining these famous recovery protocols. Prime Minister, do you guarantee that the Horeca will be able to resume on May 8, 2021, despite the rate of occupancy of our intensive care services, which unfortunately remains important? There is also a draft special terrace protocol that would have been defined by the Commissariat Corona in consultation with the sector, with several options especially with regard to the hours of closure of the Horeca. What criteria will you consider one option rather than another? How were your interlocutors selected? I am reminded, for example, that the FGTB has not been concerted, nor have other horeca collectives. I am thinking, among other things, of the Horecafocus group. With regard to the draft protocol as such, did it take account of climate conditions? Will it be possible to install tonnelles, verandas, heaters? Will we be able to assure them a certain profitability, by accepting tables of up to ten customers? This would require layering on the outer bubble, which has been expanded from four to ten people. Has there been any study of the possibility of a solidarity token – a defied tip –? What about the development of the "covid safe" label by a task force? Why was this label not adopted by the last consultation committee for the interior of the horeca establishments? As soon as yesterday, the Minister of Health announced in committee that opinions updated by the Ventilation Task Force were expected. What exactly are they about? Is this task force responsible for listing on the basis of the opinions already rendered by the Higher Council of Health the recovery devices that would be certified, and thus reimbursed by the authorities, for the detection of CO2, ventilation of air, decontamination of air and surfaces, air filtration, UVC treatment? A large number of schemes exist, and both restorers and renters need to know which ones to choose in order to be supported by the State.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic443x.u6	Mr Francken is not here. Ms Pas is currently taking part in the special committee COOVID-19.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic443x.u7	Prime Minister, I would like to take you back to the Consultation Committee on 14 April, which has become a real marathon session and which decided, among other things, that the reopening of the catering industry on 1 May would not be maintained, but that the terraces might open on 8 May. I say 'possible' because that date to date is very uncertain, which makes it difficult to speak of a perspective. After all, the terraces may open on May 8, but not if the figures do not allow it. At that time, however, it was not specified how low the figures should be. At a later stage, Minister Vandenbroucke was suddenly able to do so. I think we can see that communication is inadequate, especially when we see that majority parties are starting to fight this out among themselves. One majority party says that the catering industry will not open until later if the intended figures are not achieved, another majority party says that 8 May must be maintained. I do not think it is pleasant for the catering industry to have to watch such battles in the media. In addition, we also ask questions about the scientific basis of this, which I did this morning with my conversation about shopping by appointment. It is not a question of whether intensive care is under pressure, whether there are any new infections, but it is always a question of whether there is a causal link, in other words whether people going to restaurants actually have an increased risk of corona contamination. Today there is another serious discussion about the closing hour of the catering industry. Again, there is a lot of uncertainty being fed. Prime Minister, what did you base yourself on with the Consultative Committee to select 8 May as the opening date? How sure are you that the date of 8 May will be effectively maintained? What consultations have been held with the Catering Federations prior to this? What's happened around here in the meantime? What was the finality of those conversations? Will you provide for permanent aid in the event of a mere reopening of the terraces? The reopening of the terraces is not profitable for all catering operators. When will the government finally communicate clearly, without other parties imposing their views on the media, and in doing so, proclaiming a different story to the outside world?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic443x.u8	Mr President, Prime Minister, cross-border Franco-Belgian health cooperation is today recognised as a model of cooperation between two Member States within the European Union to improve access to quality care for patients living in border areas close to their place of life. It makes it possible to pool the supply of care and thus to provide an adequate response to the demand for patient care, without financial investment for the States concerned, thanks to the complementarity it achieves between the two health systems. Every year, 20,000 patients benefit and 500 people are cared for by the French and Belgian SMURs who cross the border, reducing the time of free medical interval and thus saving lives and reducing the sequelae of stroke or infarction. This cooperation has been able to develop and institutionalise through this legal instrument, the Franco-Belgian framework agreement for health cooperation, the first in the European Union. This framework agreement was reproduced between France and Germany and between France and Spain but also between France and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg in 2017. Belgium and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg are two states that have a unique proximity in the European Union. Together with the Netherlands, these two countries formed the embryo of our European Union by creating Benelux in 1948. They had also created a monetary union before the euro became our European currency. In the social field, they have passed social security conventions that remain unrivalled today in terms of social benefits for our frontier workers. There is a cross-border health territory called ZOAST LUXLOR which would require such a legal mechanism to deploy between the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg and the Belgian border slope and thus allow patients in this cross-border area to benefit from the provision of care on both border slopes, as is the case for the inhabitants of the southern part of the province with those of the northern part of France (Meurthe and Moselle) neighbouring the Grand Duchy. At a time when the European Commission recommends in a communication of 3 April 2020 that cooperation be established between neighbouring border regions on the basis of Article 168 TFEU and Article 10-3 of Directive 2011/24, it seems essential to enter into such relations with our Grand-Ducal friends as soon as possible. Mr Prime Minister, what do you think about the establishment of a framework agreement for health cooperation between the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, like the one with France more than 15 years ago? What steps do you intend to take to reach this agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic443x.u9	Mr Ducarme is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic443x.u10	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we must obviously recognize the terrible dilemma in which we find ourselves. On the one hand, we all know that intensive care remains highly saturated, so it is impossible to reopen everything quickly – since it is also non-covid patients who are at risk. On the other hand, because of economic and mental distress, we can no longer continue in this way, alternating the openings and closures of entire sectors, while promising dates on which we must then return – as was the case with the contact trades. We are witnessing an increasing drop in the population, as in the wood of the Cambre. Many cultural actors and Horeca plan actions as early as 30 April or 1 May. In short, we need to change paradigms. Last week, my colleague Sophie Rohonyi referred to a white card signed by three experts – Messrs. Clumeck and Gilbert and Mrs Belkhir – who proposed the introduction of a "covid safe" label, which would apply not by sector, but by location. In a way, it is also unfair, as some cultural places and horeca establishments could reopen, unlike others. However, at the very least, sites that would ensure relative contamination safety would gradually be released. We expected the last Codeco to give serious consideration to this proposal. However, we have a strong impression that this is not the case, except that the opening of the terraces would meet this logic. You'll tell me. Has this label been addressed as such in the Codeco? Failing that, do you intend to do so at the Friday one? On the other hand, I would like to ask you more specifically about culture. This sector, including the event, has submitted serious proposals for a protocol, integrating health constraints. I am thinking in particular of the performing arts, which are generally equipped with rooms where ventilation and complete air renewal are guaranteed. It seems to me that with existing protocols, masks and tests, a partial opening of the cultural world is possible. The actors are often referred to a test phase that should be developed and that has been in set-aside for months. The Codeco's latest decision promises pilot events starting on 26 April. So it's in five days. But we do not see anything that is looming. Will they take place? Finally, do we really have to go through this phase, knowing that they exist abroad and that we could rely on what happened in Portugal, France, the Netherlands, Luxembourg and elsewhere? We could therefore refer to these parameters in order to free a small part of the cultural world, respecting, of course, the maximum health constraints.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic443x.u11	Mr President, Prime Minister, a poll organised in November and December 2020 by the Eurométropole Civil Society Forum Lille-Kortrijk-Tournai among cross-border citizens reveals that almost nine out of ten respondents are in favour of setting up an exceptional regime for the Eurométropole area. The Lille-Kortrijk-Tournai Eurometropole is a living area made up of 157 communes and accounting for 2 100 000 inhabitants, 80 000 of whom are border residents, a living area which is rhythmic in terms of the number of activities and cross-border movements of various kinds (economic, commercial, friendly, family, school or health). The health crisis and the asymmetry between measures to combat the spread of French and Belgian covid-19 have made the activities and movements of cross-border citizens particularly difficult. Some initiatives carried out by the Belgian Government during the health crisis show that the particularities of the lives of cross-border citizens are clearly taken into account. For example, the measures applicable to cross-border workers and the exemption of frontier workers from other measures taken in the context of the fight against covid-19 or the agreement co-signed by the French Government clarifying the tax status of frontier workers subject to telework. It should be noted, however, that while these measures should be highlighted, many aspects of the lives of cross-border citizens remain constrained by the current situation. Prime Minister, can we have your feedback on the problem of the asymmetry of measures to combat the spread of French and Belgian covid-19 and its consequences for cross-border citizens? Can we obtain information on the current state of cooperation with the French Government and federated entities on the status of cross-border persons in the fight against the spread of covid-19? Can you inform us about the possibilities of setting up a special regime for cross-border operators and, in particular, those from the Lille-Kortrijk-Tournai Eurometropole basin? Can consultations with relevant stakeholders and representatives be envisaged?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic443x.u12	Would other colleagues like to join us? Mr Loones, you already asked a question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic443x.u13	I asked a question about the catering business. Just appeared in the media that finally decided to reduce VAT this morning. It's good to have that clarity. Can the Prime Minister confirm that this VAT reduction will only apply until the end of September? Why doesn't it apply until January 1st? That is what we asked for, as a genuine structural aid so that the hospitality sector can re-establish its capital position. The question was to do so for the whole year, but apparently the government has decided to do so until September. Is that information correct or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic443x.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the epidemiological situation remains the starting point. We are in a pandemic, we need to take measures in a pandemic to protect people's health as best we can. That seems to me to be the basis. No question at all made an allusion to what is actually the epidemiological situation. Questions have been asked about the measures and the consistency of the measures. I will certainly come back to that. It is somewhat surprising at a time when more than 3,000 people are infected daily. On average, more than 240 people are hospitalized every day. There are over 900 people on intensive care. More than 500 people have been intubated. Someone gets intubated when there's really no other way. 40 people die every day, too. No one is talking about that, but it is the reality. It's the reality for those people. It's the reality for people who know them. I also do not hear anyone talking about the fact that hospitalized people are on average younger. Hopefully this will form the basis of this discussion. It is also the basis for the discussion within Friday's Consultation Committee. The first question to ask is what steps should be taken to be able to return to our previous lifestyle and to avoid as much as possible that people are contaminated or seriously ill in our hospitals. In my view, that is the basic question. The other questions are, of course, one of them and I will certainly come back to them. Today we find that the virus is circulating very frequently. By the way, we're not fighting the same fight today as we were a year ago. In the meantime, it's another virus. It's a mutated virus. The British variant is by far dominant and sits between 85 and 90 %. We also know that the British variant has different characteristics, is much more contagious and is a lot more virulent than what we saw a year ago. The basic reasoning remains therefore to avoid as many contacts as possible. The measures taken by the Consultation Committee are always a set of measures. One should never look specifically at the impact of a restriction on one sector, specifically at the impact of a restriction on the other sector. It is about a totality of measures, which aim to reduce circulation. Reducing Circulation has always to do with the globality of the measures. And so we need to go step by step in the easing of measures. We must do this in a safe way. In fact, if we look, all over the world, at the countries that have made a rapid easing, almost in all countries where they have done so quickly and abruptly, things have gone wrong. It is therefore absolutely logical to do so step by step, to do so safely, but also to look not only at the epidemiological situation but also at the progress of vaccination. That was the new element in last week's decision of the Consultative Committee. Of course, we take into account the fact that vaccination is going faster and faster. If you look at the latest statistics and look at the number of people who have received a first dose, you will see that today our country is in sixth place in Europe. We are in sixth place in Europe when it comes to the number of people who have received a first injection. That is, in my view, the most important measure, because that first syringe and then an immunisation period of two to three weeks will ensure that people are safe. Today, in the category we are talking about in a first phase, namely the age group of 65-plussers, we see that about 67 % has been vaccinated. It's about people who got their first shot. I would like to comment specifically on a number of the questions raised. Mr Loones, you have already indicated that your question about campsites has become without object. The distinction between zoos and amusement parks has been made on the basis of expert advice, which indicated that the behaviour is slightly different. An animal park is generally a relatively quiet area. However, an amusement park is an environment in which one is a lot more active, where more is called and more emotions are expressed. The expert analysis was that it is an environment that leads more easily to the transmission of the virus than an animal park. In any event, opening the amusement parks is part of the outdoor package, with the date of 8 May 2021, a date that does include a number of conditions. In this case, you know the reasoning behind this decision. Mr. Hedebouw, you mentioned that businesses are places of significant contamination. Statistics show that schools and businesses are privileged meeting places. Does that mean that schools and businesses are pointing the finger? No! But they are meeting places because of the nature of their activities. If telework is an obligation, there are many occupations for which it is impossible. A couple of weeks ago, in collaboration with the public sectors, we launched a workplace testing campaign. More than 200 companies have signed up for testing twice a week. The test itself was offered by the federal government, the administration of the test dependent on occupational medicine or an external service. I understand that this system has been of great interest, but I think we will continue in this direction. I come to the risk management element. Of course, the carte blanche, to which some have referred, is very interesting but is, in fact, parallel to the reflection already taking place within the various governments and the police station and the Commissioner covid. In the first wave, the logic was to stop any activity. No distinction was made. In the second wave, this cessation was more concentrated by activity group, by sector. It is clear that, in the next phase, much more attention needs to be paid to how authorized activities can be safeguarded in a secure manner. It is for this reason, Mr. De Smet, that the reopening of Horeca is done outside, as the risk of contamination is lower. Moreover, this logic has already emerged in Luxembourg. The Netherlands has announced this; other countries have also done so, but at some point the opening to the public will take place in the interior. To this end, measures to manage risk will be required. You mentioned a "covid safe" label. The whole question, of course, is what level it can be organized. If it is a label that has to be obtained, you can imagine what this will entail as a control and certification device. I am not sure that we have enough time to follow this method. Rather, I believe that we need to offer a perspective that inspires the confidence of providers and independents on the basis of rules to which the reopening of their establishments will be conditional. Mr. Hedebouw, you also talked about the discount. I remember our discussion in Parliament. With regard to this discount, which normally amounts to 26.75 per cent, many parties had opted for a royal decree to lower the rate to 15 per cent. At the request of the parliamentary groups, I took this royal decree, but by warning them that this reduction in the discount would lead some citizens to have to pay compensation at a later date. Many members then objected to the importance of greater purchasing power in this co-vid period, the subsequent period being quite different. I can tell you that at that time I had made it clear that this aspect would come back to the debate. Mr De Roover, as far as schools are concerned, I commend the commitment of all the Ministers of Education, who have done everything possible to keep schools as open as possible. That's right. Moreover, if you compare it with other countries, we in our country, thanks to the efforts of many, but above all of the Ministers of Education, have succeeded very well. In the Netherlands, for example, the schools have been closed for more than ten weeks, in our country this was limited to an extra week after school holidays. That is a good thing. In Germany there is a similar situation, while in the Czech Republic it is almost the opposite, where schools have hardly been open in the past period. As I said earlier, I understand that you are asking about the specific impact of the measures. Perhaps one day one will be able to do such an analysis, but I have my doubts about it, because it is always about a set of measures that the circulation needs to be reduced at some point. In recent weeks we have seen that the positivity ratio in the category of 0- to 20-year-olds was, unfortunately, very high. Unfortunately, it is still very high. A school is a place where many people in that age group find each other and so we had to look at how we could avoid contamination. It is a problem that children are infected, but it is an even bigger problem that these children can then infect their parents and grandparents. As we indicated, the schools were reopened this week. That was the agreement and we have kept it, but we have had to move a little in order to be able to do it safely. We have agreed that an evaluation will take place before the beginning of May to see whether there will still be a change of one week of school education and one week of distance learning. They also asked for the end of the curfew and the night clock. This measure has helped in the area of enforcement, but at some point one must dare to consider whether a measure which is so far-reaching is still proportionate. It was a good decision by the Consultative Committee that on the conditional date of 8 May the curfew will be abolished and replaced by a co-training ban of more than three people for certain hours of the night. I cannot anticipate the decision that will be taken on Friday. As you know, that is a collective decision of different governments. Mrs Rohonyi, I think I have answered your question on the logic of risk management. Let's talk about support measures, not just in Horeca, but in the broad sense! In the coming weeks, part of our economy will come out of its hibernation. It's the image of a bear coming out of hibernation. Actually, he's all thin, and he's got no reservations. To help start an activity when you are very thin and have no reserves, it is normal to use support measures. Mr Loones, as you have pointed out, a decision has indeed been taken within the nuclear cabinet on a very wide range of aid measures. I would like to take this opportunity to comment on that. It is a package of 830 million in total, ventilated on a number of aid measures. A first measure is a VAT reduction to 6%, which applies to food, non-alcoholic and alcoholic beverages. This measure will apply until 30 September because it is difficult to assess the situation. I have learned in this crisis that it is very difficult to look into a glass ball in terms of the epidemiological but also the economic aspect. This measure is direct and should not be applied for and rewards those who create turnover. Per euro turnover one creates, one gets more oxygen that can be used to strengthen the activity. A second measure is an exemption from the payment of the holiday allowance. As you know, a lot of people in the catering sector work under a workers' statute. We will ensure that this contribution, which should be paid when the activity is started, is exempt. The total amount involved is EUR 110 million extra oxygen. A third measure is a RSZ reduction, which is broader and therefore not just about the catering industry. The aim of this measure is to ensure that companies which increase their employment, for example by putting a number of people in temporary unemployment back on the payroll, receive a reduction in social security contributions. This is a very economical measure which ensures that companies that are currently considering moving their activity into a higher gear, knowing that it will mean that they will have to pay more people direct wages again, specifically for that additional employment. A fourth measure is more flexible student work. We know that students will play an important role in the sectors that will reopen. We will ensure that the hours spent during the third quarter, especially during the busy summer period, do not count for the annual quota in the sectors that are allowed to reopen, which will allow students to work more. A number of social measures have also been taken. The protection premium for the long-term unemployed in closed sectors will be extended to non-medical contact professions, such as hairdressers. At the time that premium was granted, that sector was not closed and the phasing-out of the measures excluded them. In doing so, I gave an overview of the measures taken. Mr Van Lommel, I have already answered some of your questions. Why was the date set for 8 May? Well, 8 May is a date that will allow the vaccination campaign to do its job in relation to the other data circulating. Every day we vaccinate on average 60,000 to 70,000 people and over a period of one week more than 500,000 people are vaccinated. More importantly, more than 500,000 people have received their vaccine in the previous weeks and may have their immunity response in the period two to three weeks after. It's about people over 65 years of age, so people at greater risk. The reopening of outdoor activities will make our lives more enjoyable. This applies both to the catering industry and to other outdoor activities that will be allowed. Making life more pleasant, but we must do so with caution. I would like to emphasise that. Over the last few months, we have managed to avoid an exponential third wave with a huge effort from everyone in our country. Thanks to the fact that the vaccination campaign is progressing at full speed and that our country succeeds in doing so efficiently compared to other European countries, more is possible. However, it must be safe. We must do everything we can to avoid, when we really see the end of this tunnel, that we are taking too many risks. Mr De Smet, you have talked about pilot experiments and the need to observe and learn from practices in other countries. You mentioned the Netherlands. That's interesting. We can clearly learn from the way things have happened in the Netherlands. It became a very extensive test experiment there, with finally very important social tensions, where some test events had to be cancelled because the authorities realized that it might not be a good idea to experiment on such a scale in the current circumstances. As indicated in the decision of the Consultation Committee, from week 26, test experiments may take place. Moreover, the methods of selecting these tests, taken on a scientific basis, are decided today within a CIM. Therefore, the police station, together with the ministers concerned, the local authorities, the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Health, will decide on a process to be able to select a number of projects. It is important to be able to do so from the week of 26 April. The aim, of course, is to be able to then initiate a schedule, a scheme of deconfination for events in the broad sense. This schedule is on the agenda of Friday's consultation committee. Indeed, I think it is good to look at what is happening in other countries and not always do exactly what they have done. Mrs Hanus and Mr Senesael asked me about cross-border cooperation. Madam, sir, I share your opinion. It is clear that the covid crisis has shown that there is a need to strengthen the latter in terms of health, particularly for the regions concerned. We already have a solid basis for cooperation with the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. Since the end of 2020, many consultations on crisis management have taken place, in particular with the Grand Duchy, but also with other countries. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs has informed you, Belgium has informed the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg of its wish to take stock of the various cross-border agreements. This proposal aims to fill any gaps that might have been identified during the covid crisis. The assessment of the desirability of concluding a health framework agreement is part of this overall exercise. Mr Senesael, the logic is the same with regard to France. Finally, Mr Van Lommel, you asked whether there was any consultation with the catering industry. I'm sure the meeting was over. There is consultation with the sector on a fairly frequent basis. I have also noticed that there has already been a reaction from the sector on the basis of the comprehensive support package that we are announcing here. Of course, the package is not entirely new. We used the support package after the first wave. What is different here is that a number of things, such as alcoholic beverages, have been added, because we want to make sure that we do not leave the small cafes in the cold. The opposite would mean that those cafes, which do not feed, would only receive additional oxygen on the basis of soft drinks, which would greatly limit the measure. That was my answer in the current topical and urgent debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic443x.u15	Prime Minister, before I replicate your answers, I must say something. In your introduction to the political recovery of this crisis, by suggesting that we in this House are only dealing with the economy, while you are the only one watching over public health, I find it poor. For me, that is just another proof that you are not getting enough in Parliament. You clearly do not know what lives here in Parliament. In every intervention we make that assessment ourselves. And yes, it is true that we are concerned about the economic impact, because it is also about people's well-being. I think it's a two-way street, and I think it's a two-way street, and I think it's a two-way street, and I think it's a two-way street, and I think it's a two-way street, and I think it's a two-way street. As far as the catering industry is concerned, it is good that this measure finally comes. It actually encourages me, because at first your government was not in favour of reducing VAT to 6%. For months I have asked questions about this, for months the answer was that the government would not do so. Until suddenly I read an interview in De Tijd with Minister Van Quickenborne who announced a reduction to that 6%. I also heard Minister Van Peteghem say that. But at first that was absolutely not your intention. I am particularly glad that we kept knocking on that nail. If you were to come more into Parliament, Prime Minister, you would have seen it. You can read all my speeches on this in the reports, and you will undoubtedly acknowledge your change of course with me. Anyway, I welcome it and it encourages us to continue to oppose it in this way. This morning we had a discussion with Secretary of State Derminne about the relay plan. The atmosphere that has been around for a while and which is lingering with me more and more, is that of the need to step up and give some extra support. Meanwhile, we also know that purple-green can do that, spend money. What we still see far too little is reforms to prepare the transition in a structural way. We don't hear about that, Prime Minister. We do not hear about the budget. We do not hear about the reform agenda. That's where the adadium always says we'll see after the summer. Perhaps, Prime Minister, you could also spend some of your time on this and discuss it with Parliament. We are certainly in favour of this on behalf of our group, and Mr De Roover will no doubt continue to do so. I also had a question about amusement parks and zoos. There is little fun in the present times. If there is one zoo, it should not be sought by the opposition.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic443x.u16	Prime Minister, I, too, have offended your introduction. I can follow Mr Loones in that. You are taking one part of what is going on in Parliament to give the impression that we do not care about health. I don't know if you follow the special COVID committee from time to time. Will you once in a while get your light up at the Health Commission to see what's going on there? Hundreds of questions are asked about this theme. This is the Home Affairs Committee. Other elements are also mentioned here. You'll be here with us for two hours, I believe. You leave at 4:00 p.m. Perhaps the questions you ask will not be answered until 4 p.m., but you will not be there to answer them or even listen to them. I believe that we in Parliament do not have to accept that you give the impression that health would not interest us. I would like to add one more thing. You said that the health figures are the basis. Basic rights may clash, Prime Minister. Unfortunately, that's what we're going through today. The government has a duty to take measures to protect health and also to safeguard freedom. It creates friction. Society is in danger of getting torn apart between those who put forward the first almost exclusively as an objective, in particular health, and the other category which merely puts forward the other, in particular freedom. A wise policy would strike a balance in that, while giving the impression that you consider that second concern secondary. The word freedom is liberté in French. I refer to the V in Vld. It is a concern that you should take with you a little bit. On the one hand, creating the impression that we are not working on health is absolutely offensive. On the other hand, creating the impression that you are focusing solely on that part is alarming. But that's less news, I have to admit. In reply to my question, you replied that you are taking global measures and that it is very difficult to assess the impact of parts. Maybe we can do that in the future. So you are actually saying here what I said before: 'We are getting enough pills from the medicine cabinet to be sure, in the hope that some work will be done'. But maybe there are medications that have side effects. So you're actually admitting here today that you're not working evidence-based. You opt for a whole range of measures, and if the whole package works, you will continue to maintain that whole package. If you cannot actually demonstrate the link between the measure and the effect on what really concerns us, you create a motivational problem. With regard to keeping schools open, under the impetus of Minister Weyts, this policy has allowed us to avoid a great deal of damage to young people. You did not answer the question of how wise it was to close that week before the Easter holiday. By saying that the number of infections among young people has increased, you have given the impression that the schools would have been a driver. In this way, you have actually questioned the expertise of many experts. It would be good to go deeper into that. Do you really mean that the schools are a driver in the corona infections or not? You gave that impression. It would be a good thing for you to clarify this and to have another discussion with the experts on this matter. It was also remarkable that you said that curfew was not a bad measure because, I quote, 'that has facilitated enforcement'. Premier, enforcement as an argument for an intervention in basic rights and freedoms, you enter an extremely dangerous path. If that curfew has allowed us to control the corona contamination, I dare to defend it with you. If that was only an easy measure to enable enforcement, then that is absolutely a reprehensible argument to allow such fundamental freedom to go on the kicks.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic443x.u17	Prime Minister, your introduction was not very high. You say you're not being asked about the epidemiological situation. We obviously follow hour by hour, day by day, what our public service provides as information. I do not need to ask the Prime Minister a question: Sciensano informs us on a daily basis of the epidemiological situation. Let us focus the debate on what needs to be done today! If I need a picture of the health situation, I promise you, I'm not going to bother you with that. I will follow the press conference of our public institutions two to three times a week live. The idea behind your words, that we wouldn't care about the epidemiological situation, is small. May we have differences on how to react, either! But to say that parties, at least mine, have nothing to do with it, I cannot accept it. As far as the business world and the schools are concerned, you say that there is a platform where people meet, but you have to admit that your debate and communication was largely about the schools. The discussion about the companies has hardly been held, has it? The schools used to be closed down, so you are taking measures in this area. As far as the business world is concerned, I think it's a little thin. You're talking about the first wave, but all the essential companies that make up two thirds of our economy kept working, remember? After two or three weeks in that first wave, there were even construction works going on here in Parliament's courtyard. It was just bricked up. The statement that all these sectors were no longer working is therefore untrue. I am not asking for these sectors to leave the job. You're talking about 200 companies today. Maybe you could send us some information on where we stand in the meantime. On April 1st we received the figure of 15,000 tests. At 200 companies, that's not much, even if I don't know how big they are. Could the services perhaps let us know how many people and how many companies are involved in the meantime? A company like Carrefour or a small SME, that is very different. I would like to see some more detailed figures in order to see what progress has been made on the rapid tests since 1 April and on COOVID-19 in general. Secondly, with regard to taxation, could you tell me which parties were seeking a reduction? I think you have even had a debate in the majority on the subject. But here I wanted to ask you why we would not apply the same process to employees as to self-employed people. I hear you gave them a little more purchasing power and then they're going to have to pay for it. I would like to propose a political positioning on the concessionary prepayment that has been granted to the independents, a measure that I defend. It's an exceptional social benefit, etc. Why do we not do the same for employees and unemployment benefit corona? You answer me by explaining the rules of taxation. I know that when you lower the professional discount, you have to pay back the following year. I know, I've been acting. All acting companies do the same thing. We put the professional discount at the bottom of the basket. So, you feel like you're making a little money while you're working and the following year, paf, you're doin' it! I know the system. That wasn't the purpose of my question. I would like to know why you do not decide, exceptionally, to reduce this discount for the employees, as you did for the independents with the right bridge. The more people will do simulations on the Internet, the more political resistance will increase. If I can give you advice, it's to take this step now. Now is the time, don't wait for everyone to have their tax regularization, because it's going to stall. People have already lost purchasing power on their gross wages during the crisis. They're all going to go to Tax-on-web and they're going to end up with 1,800 euros to pay, which wasn't planned! Think about making this tax free. Finally, you did not answer my question about the 100% quarantine. It's not for lack of trying to get you out of a political reaction on the subject. I assure you, this is a real problem. We receive many testimonies from people who should be quarantined and who are not going to do so because they cannot afford to lose 200 euros. When you have a high salary, this question does not arise, but in the popular strata it is a real public health problem. If people knew they wouldn't lose money by quarantine, it would be very different. I'm really talking about quarantine from 10 to 15 days. I'm not talking about corona unemployment for months. There is a real conflict here between public health and the loss of purchasing power, as has been proven by several studies. This file is not evolving. And again, you simply don't answer! Could you not address this issue in one of your task forces? These people, if they're sick and going to work, circulate the virus. Ask your experts who have relays in the field! These people, if they're going to work, when they're sick, we're going to point them out, the virus will continue to circulate! Instead of doing that, let us take action, Prime Minister! I will not let you down on this vital issue in our eyes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic443x.u18	Prime Minister, thank you for the answers, but I have not received any answers to my specific questions. I would like to mention a few more things. Mr Loones said here that he was concerned about the budget and the possible reform agenda. I think he's right to worry. I do not know whether you are coming to Parliament enough or whether you are listening to your own party enough. This morning, your party colleague Kathleen Verhelst made a call on the Committee on Economic Affairs to widen the gap between working and not working, a plea that we have been making for many years. That way we want to get more people to work. However, we can see that purple-green is particularly now that unemployment benefits are rising. If there were any reforms, this would immediately make it clear what direction they would take. I fear that this will not be the way to get more people to work. I come to a second point. It was said here that we would not be concerned about the epidemiological situation. That is not correct at all, but it is often about basic rights in this debate. One of these basic rights is freedom of movement. The government agreement shows that you are in favour of the European Union and you will agree with me that the free movement of persons within Europe is a fundamental right. However, this freedom is also severely curtailed by this government. Commissioner Reynders has even criticized the Belgian ban on non-essential travel, to the extent that you simply had no choice but to lift the ban on non-essential travel this Monday. I doubt you'd have lifted that ban if you didn't. So much for the love of Europe within this government and the very important basic rights. I have asked questions about this, not because we would not be concerned about the epidemiological situation, but because we want to know how to motivate citizens to comply with the measures you are introducing, while reducing basic rights so much. That is why I asked what the difference is between a red European zone and a red non-European zone. How are you going to explain that to the citizen? One may travel to a European red zone, but not to a non-European red zone. Is one red different from the other red? What are the reasons for that? That is why I asked why a green certificate should be issued if one has a negative test to leave the country, but apparently that negative test is not worth entering the country. Those were my specific questions. I didn't get an answer. I hope I get it after all.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic443x.u19	To Mr Hedebouw's question about the number of companies, the latest figures available to me indicate that 317 companies have entered this system. A total of 333,000 tests were delivered. When you ask whether you are talking about small businesses or not, it's about INEOS, Preon, Aperam, Proximus, bpost, Infrabel, Scientia Pharmaceuticala, STIB, Scania, Gamma, Tessenderlo Chemie, AGC, Glass, Randstadt, DHL, Pfizer, Volvo, Audi, Volvo car, Van Hool, etc. We're talking about big companies that went back into that system. Mrs Van Bossuyt, I had taken note of one of your questions, but I had not structured that properly and went over it. In Belgium, non-essential movements were prohibited. All essential movements, including daily border traffic, were very well organised. I have also talked about this very often with my Luxembourg and Dutch colleagues. At first, they had some fear of what we would do. In retrospect, they said that this was very well arranged and much better than, for example, border regions between other countries where it was much more difficult. The Red Zones outside Europe have been agreed at European level. Non-essential movements outside the European Union were not allowed. The whole world cannot be judged in the same way, but what is happening today in Brazil and India, for example, does make sense why we want to have a great deal of caution about this at European level. For movements within the European Union and especially within the Schengen area, we have gone to the system with quarantine and very thorough follow-up of quarantine and testing. This was decided on the basis of a cooperation agreement with the Länder. This system meets our objective, namely that people going to a red zone must respect quarantine and testing requirements. That can also be effectively monitored.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic443x.u20	The rules on non-essential travel outside Europe have therefore been agreed at European level. This does not seem to apply to the Netherlands. In the meantime, there are Dutch people who are travelling, so a non-essential move outside Europe. This does not seem to apply to every European in the same way.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic443x.u21	Prime Minister, I thank you for your answers, even though I confess that they are half-tinted. Firstly, there is something concrete: you have announced new economic support measures. This was the least of all when we know that horeca provides a million jobs in Belgium and that these measures are essential to avoid social and economic cataclysm. The question is whether that will be enough. Will these announced measures apply, such as the 6% VAT reduction, until the end of September? It's not very clear. What about bridge law? We would like a real bridge right and not a conditional bridge right as we have seen for traders. What about economic unemployment, especially if horeca companies have to employ staff only for a few hours a day and not for a whole day? What about harmonisation of aid between regions or compensation for recovery schemes? I had a concrete question that I did not get an answer to. For the rest, I think you drowned the fish. We will have to wait for a new Consultation Committee this Friday to know the conditions of operation of the Horeca. If the debate remains really open until Friday, I stress that the real revival of the sector will require a recovery that must be realistic, concerted and profitable. Today, however, we are not there. You even recognize that the covid safe label will be difficult to implement, that it will take time, that it will be difficult to control, especially at the local level. It has been months since the sector has been working on strict health protocols and the municipalities have been doing a great job, particularly in addressing federal shortcomings. Why didn't you talk to them earlier? You're talking about trusting the sector, it's precisely through regular consultation with it that you'll show it that you're willing to trust it. I hope that this concertation committee will be able to reassure the sector by showing it that its recovery will be a real revival and not, as it feels – in a fairly legitimate way – a poisoned gift. We are told today that on the 8th of May, the outer bubble will be expanded from 4 to 10, we will put in order to curfew from midnight and, next to that, the terraces of the Horeca may have to close at 8 p.m. In other words, you can have a drink with your friends in the parks but not on the terrace of a café, not in a way framed by professionals and with covid safe devices. I find it totally inconsistent and I sincerely hope that the Consultation Committee will correct the shooting this Friday.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic443x.u22	The question of bridge law is very relevant. Since the opening of the Horeca would take place on the conditional date of May 8, this means that the double right bridge remains clearly valid during that month. As you know, the bridge right is assigned if there is at least one day of closure. I am aware that cafes and restaurants that have to open only outside do not enjoy the full range desired. This means that the dual bridge right they now receive, they will continue to receive it even if reduced activities are allowed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic443x.u23	Thank you, Prime Minister, for the answer. I take note of your view that you are the only one concerned with the epidemiological situation in this country, while no one in this hemisphere denies that this is a major problem, but I think that we Members of this House are entitled to ask questions about the measures you are taking with your Consultative Committee. I'd say, "Can I still have it?" Indeed, Prime Minister, health is paramount, but I have a feeling that you sometimes have a trial and error policy, because you have already tried everything. After each Consultation Committee you will come up with other measures. You keep trying something new. The measures must be targeted and demonstrably necessary. You yourself said just now: I do not know, we have to look at the whole thing, but you will understand that this is particularly acidic for the affected sectors, the affected traders, the affected catering industry. In the long run, they ask themselves why we and not someone else, because you can't prove it. We have to say that they are no longer comfortable with it at the moment. I told you that in plenary a few weeks ago. They get the feeling that you're telling them a carrot, which you pull away every time the target gets close. That's very unfortunate. We naturally welcome the measure relating to the reduction of VAT. The Flemish Interest has itself submitted a legislative proposal, not for a temporary measure, but for a structural measure. You have not answered the questions about unambiguous communication to the outside world. Everyone in the Consultation Committee thinks that they should give their own views on the facts. That only leads to more ambiguity. Majority parties have different opinions. I think that's gonna make us look silly in the outside world. If you still want to have a basis for action in the future, that is one of the elements you need to look at.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic443x.u24	Prime Minister, thank you for your answers to my questions today. The pandemic teaches us that indeed, transfers of patients with covid-19 have been organised between France and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. On December 11, 2020, the Regional Health Ministers of the Greater Region signed a declaration of intent to develop structured mutual assistance during this pandemic and to deal with future health crises that may arise. We must welcome these awareness-raising and initiatives, but above all we must equip ourselves with international legal instruments to enable the health cooperation which we call for to develop in the border areas of our country with our closest friends and mainly the Grand Duchy which is part of the Benelux. A framework agreement for health cooperation with this neighbouring and friendly country has always lacked our international legal instruments to create a legal basis for health cooperation and to achieve the objectives of the European Union and the Greater Region in this area. This is why last March we organised a webinar with the PS Luxembourg, the Mutualité socialiste du Luxembourg and the COSAN project, bringing together medical and political officials on both sides of the Belgian and Grand-Ducal border. They all supported an increase in cooperation between our two countries in the field of health. I will not hesitate to come back to you, Prime Minister, to follow up on this matter. I thank you again for your answers, but above all for your support in advancing our bilateral agreements on cross-border health.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic443x.u25	Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. I must confess that, like some of my colleagues, I am still a little shocked by your introductory sermon, reminding us to order as if we had not dealt with the health issue, and as if there was on the one hand a nice government that cares for people in intensive care, and on the other, a bad Parliament that only has the economy in its mouth. First of all, at the moment, it's not true. I started my introduction by talking about the 900 people in intensive care, and talking about the dilemma we were in. So you didn't listen to the beginning of my question. But I want to tell you, what's the matter? Do you really believe that anyone in this room, and beyond these screens, doesn't want the virus circulation to stop? This is not a debate between health and economics. It is a debate between health, economics and mental health. Those of us who plead that certain venues where the air is constantly renewed can open in part, those who support you in the idea of opening the terraces, do not do so just to support the sectors in question. It is also to stimulate membership, to ensure that events such as the wood of the Cambre, and those announced to us on the side of certain cultural actors or the Horeca, which intend to try to open before 8 May, do not come true. Of course you were right to say that we have a new epidemic because of the British variant. But let us remember that even before this British variation, there is a plateau under which we cannot go, because, simply, part of the membership is coming. If we are not able to go below this plateau, it means that not all our measures are enough. When we talk about economy, we actually talk about health. Secondly, I can follow you on the certification system for a possible label. It is obviously not a question of turning our country into an administrative machine, but we agree that from the moment, for example, when we make the difference between the horeca establishments that have a terrace and those that do not, de facto, enter into an administrative mechanics, because the aids, the supports, will not be quite the same. It's been a long time since we could have moved on to the covid label. I would not rule out this, because there is nothing to say that the situation is not going to become more complicated if the vaccination is not able to catch up with the race of the variants. About the testing phases, I can hear you. Indeed, I read that a dispatch had fallen. The Inter-Ministerial Conference has advanced and programmed a series of testing phases on cultural events. I keep saying there are good things to go abroad too. You're right, there are some counter-examples of large-scale events in the Netherlands. There are also, I insist, events that have worked well in Portugal, and in Luxembourg, where there is a way to go to the theatre to a few, today, including in closed places, when the plays are ventilated. So I'd like to see the side half full of the glass, too. Finally, this is rather a technical question, you are announcing VAT reductions in the Horeca, including, if I have read correctly, on alcohol and alcohol products. I'm not a tax officer. I'm not even a lawyer. Nevertheless, it seems to me that there is a provision in the Directive of 28 November 2006 on the common system of value added tax which is supposed to prevent Member States from reducing VAT on alcoholic products. Is there anything that escapes the non-lawyer I am? It's possible. Otherwise, I would be interested to know the mechanics by which you would escape – without discussing the substance of the measure on which we can hold another debate – from this European administrative constraint which seems to me to be cast into the marble, that of a European directive.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic443x.u26	Mr President, I thank the Prime Minister for his answer. With 23 questions and the time allocated to us, it is difficult to answer all the questions in concrete terms. I had more specific sub-questions. In order not to add debate to the debate, I will allow myself to address a written question to the Prime Minister with the clarifications requested.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic443x.u27	Prime Minister, in a very exciting passage in your coalition agreement, you announce that not only will a federal policy be implemented for the whole country, but also for a piece of tailor-made work. It is therefore a question of sharing a power without splitting it up. However, this is de facto the case when, where necessary, the powers are filled in differently for Flanders, Wallonia or Brussels. You call that asymmetric policy, or place-based policies. Very interesting, but it turns out that a lot of ministers I interviewed about this when discussing their policy paper are not doing anything about it. They don't even have cabinet employees working on it. Prime Minister, how will you ensure that that part of your coalition agreement is implemented effectively? I think it is important that you carry out your own agreement. Moreover, how will you work with your powers and themes asymmetrically?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic443x.u28	I would like to refer to my reply of 27 January. In January, the ministers responsible for institutional reform sent a letter to their colleagues in the government to remind them of the passage in the government agreement you are talking about and to identify in which specific cases an asymmetric exercise of powers at federal level can meet the specific needs and dynamics of the Länder. I will also be involved in this, although my powers in this area are limited. Ministers responsible for institutional reform will prepare a report setting out a state of play and submit it to the Council of Ministers after the summer recess of 2021. Of course, you can question them about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic443x.u29	Of course, we are asking the relevant ministers about this, but it shows that they are not working on it. I am also literally asking all the Deputy Prime Ministers how many of their cabinet staff are dealing with institutional matters - I am going to ask that question later, and it turns out to be virtually nobody. You refer to the institutional aspect as one of the key themes of the coalition agreement, which must be implemented by 2024. Of course, only two ministers are responsible for institutional matters, but I assume that the entire government is involved. However, when I ask about this, it turns out to be a hot air. I hope you're the prime minister watching over your coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic443x.u30	We learned that discussions were under way between the various parties in order to renew, in any case in part, the chairs and members of the boards of directors of public enterprises and public bodies that defend the federal government. As a reminder, these public enterprises are run by a governance body commonly referred to as the Board of Directors. This concerns organisations such as Bpost, SNCB, Infrabel, Skeyes, National Lottery, Proximus, Brussels Airport, SFPI (federal holding and investment company), Bozar, the National Orchestra of Belgium, the Mint, etc. In the Echo of 19 December 2020, it is written that there is "a cadastre of mandates to be filled which counts at least 175". In La Libre Belgique of 2 March 2021, we can read: "The distribution of seats will be determined by the mechanism of the key "Hondt (i.e. an improved proportional). A D-Hondt key adapted since the federal opposition parties (including the N-VA) will be represented on the future boards of directors thus renewed, with two exceptions: the Vlaams Belang and the PTB are excluded from this distribution." Not integrating opposition members into the CAs of public interest organizations is not democratic in the terms of Alexia Bertrand, leader of the MR group in the Brussels Parliament. Who am I to question the words of Alexia Bertrand, a dynamic opposition at the level of the Brussels Parliament. On this anti-democratic side of the exclusion of the opposition of the ACs, I can only join it in the radicality of this denunciation. With these political appointments, we see a rebroadcast of the post war. We know the story. The parties want to push their candidate to a highly paid position. Particracy is needed without any vision of the future for public enterprises. There is no legal basis for the distribution of these political appointments on boards of directors. Each party buys, through party arrangements and dark pacts, its share of the cake. It's a real elite system. I'm gonna make it shorter. The Prime Minister has received my adaptation, but I will ask you some very concrete questions. On the one hand, can you give us a precise list of the positions and institutions currently under discussion for political appointments? But above all, in the press, we read in speed "in fact it's the d'Hondt key but it's improved; like that, the PTB is not in the AC". Could you explain the principle to me? Since by the D'Hondt key, it's not possible to avoid us, how did you do it? Is this a small agreement between parties? Technically, for my personal curiosity, what was the criterion that allowed you to exclude us from the CA? That is a very specific question to which I would like to have an answer today. I have introduced three or four other questions to the Prime Minister, but I will limit myself to that because the inquiry can really get an answer if I can be justified in our absence on these boards.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic443x.u31	Mr President, Mr Hedebouw, in so far as you have cited a whole series of organizations and to avoid listing them here, I am sending you a list of organizations where appointments are to take place during this legislature. For a number of organizations and institutions, this government has a legal responsibility to appoint boards of directors or representatives. It is clear that vacant mandates must be filled by those with the necessary useful expertise. The selection of the person will therefore be duly justified in each appointment order. In addition, each newly appointed director will sign a charter defining the rights and obligations of all directors. The government itself has an interest in appointing qualified individuals to run and manage our public enterprises, for example. Balance is, of course, a closely monitored element in appointments. A government that wants itself to be diverse also wants to see these diversities in the group of people who lead these organizations. It's no secret. In addition to the obvious linguistic balance, gender balance is also crucial for this government, as well as other elements of diversity, so that we can put in place strong boards of directors that reflect the diversity of society. Has a specific party been excluded? Certainly not! But our point of view is to name people who share the government's point of view, for example with regard to state interference in the economy. I am not convinced that your representatives have the same views as the government. Of course, our goal is not to put ourselves in the place of those who manage businesses, particularly public ones, but to have people on the boards who share our vision of the economy. However, you must admit that your definition of how to manage an economy is somewhat perpendicular to the vision of the parties in that government. In the area of remuneration, we will launch an exercise to map the remuneration and benefits of directors and the conditions for obtaining them. In the various institutions where the federal government is involved, a proposal will be developed on this basis. As regards the suggestion to open the boards of directors of certain public undertakings to representatives of the users, it is for the competent minister responsible to decide.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic443x.u32	Now I'm worried about the mechanism. You're telling me that the mechanism is not to have an objection or an inconvenient opposition... because I see that a glorious opposition party such as the CDH is part of the carousel. I thought it was positive in a CA to have diversity, especially in public companies; we are rather looking for an expansion of their place in the economic fabric. I therefore find it a pity that the diversity we have in Parliament is not at least reflected in the ACs, if only to control what is happening there. It seems to me that we have two different visions of what a director can and must do on a board of directors of a federal public enterprise. I can only regret that choice you made. Some debates may also take place within the ACs, and some left-right debates may also take place. I am not convinced that all designated persons in the federal government agree with all directions. Prime Minister, I confess that I was not convinced by your answer, which is why, and I would have hoped that I would not have to use it, I will nevertheless introduce a motion of recommendation following my inquiry, not convinced by the Prime Minister's response.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic443x.u33	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Raoul Hedebouw and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mr. Raoul Hedebouw and the Prime Minister's reply, - whereas there are discussions with a view to the complete or partial renewal of the posts of President and member of the boards of directors of public undertakings and institutions which depend on the federal government; - whereas it concerns the board of directors of institutions such as bpost, SNCB, Infrabel, skeyes, the National Lottery, Proximus, Brussels Airport, the FPIM (Federal Participation and Investment Company), the PSK, the National Orchestra of Belgium, the Mint, etc.; - whereas Prime Minister De Croo mentions in the Government Declaration the need to "reclaim the confidence of citizens in politics" that there is currently no transparency about the political appointments to the Board of Directors of public enterprises and institutions which depend on the federal government; - whereas it appears to be a custom for each party to seek to secure its share of the spoils by means of secret arrangements and dark pacts; - whereas there is no legal basis for the distribution of political appointments to the boards of directors; - whereas due to all the challenges we face as a result of the health and economic crisis, society has no interest in this political trade at the expense of our public services; - considering the importance of strong public enterprises and a real break with the logic of profit and short-term visions; - considering the importance of including citizens and users on the Board of Directors of public enterprises; asks the government to consider promptly and thoroughly the appointment and distribution of seats on the Board of Directors of public enterprises and institutions which depend on the federal government, with a view to establishing a genuine legal framework based on basic principles such as transparency, civic participation, the greater importance of the community, a long-term vision and a qualitative priority." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Raoul Hedebouw and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr Raoul Hedebouw and the Prime Minister's response, - Considering that discussions have been initiated with a view to renewing, in whole or in part, the chairs and members of the boards of directors of public undertakings and public bodies which are dependent on the federal government; - Whereas this concerns the boards of directors of bodies such as Bpost, SNCB, Infrabel, Skeyes, the National Lottery, Proximus, Brussels Airport, SFPI (federal holding and investment company), Bozar, Orchestre national de Belgique, la Monnaie, etc.; - Considering that Prime Minister De Croo mentions in the government statement the need to "gain the confidence of citizens in politics", that there is currently no transparency on political appointments on the boards of directors of companies and public bodies that are dependent on the federal government; - Considering that it seems customary for each party to buy its share of the cake by secret arrangements and obscure pacts; - Whereas there is no legal basis for the distribution of political appointments on boards of directors; - considering all the challenges we face as a result of the health and economic crisis, society has no interest in seeing this political bargaining on the back of our public services; - considering the importance of having strong public enterprises and a real break with the logics of profit and short-term; - considering the importance of including citizens and users on the boards of directors of public undertakings; asks the government to carry out an urgent and in-depth reflection on the appointments and distribution of the seats of the boards of directors of the companies and agencies that depend on the federal government, with a view to providing a genuine legal framework based on key principles such as transparency, citizen participation, the best interests of the community, a long-term vision and a qualitative priority." A simple motion was tabled by Mr Tim Vandenput. A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Tim Vandenput. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic443x.u34	Mr President, Prime Minister, the question dates from 15 January 2021. So, she's already pretty besieged. In the meantime, however, you will still be working with the idea of a new political culture, which is at the heart of your policy. Usually this is particularly convenient communication, namely packaging old wine in new bags. However, on 15 January 2021, the newspaper reported that three ministers would still hear good opposition proposals. They stated that they would publish their Policy Paper 2.0. I quote the newspaper with the word "publish." They would publish an adapted policy vision, which would take account of Parliament's comments and, above all, of the opposition. Thus the quote was in the media. Is that really about new political culture or has that been a promo communication? I refer back to 15 January 2021. The approach taken by three of your ministers raises a few questions. Their course of action might as well be a misconception of Parliament's upgrading. Let me get this straight. My group has tabled 300 amendments to various policy statements. Some of them were almost a literal or even a literal representation of what ministers had stated in Parliament or in the media. All these amendments have been subjected to the same fate. They were unisono and somewhat industrially voted away, without there apparently much consideration for the content. That is why I have the following questions. Indeed, this is at odds with the statement of 15 January 2021 in the press. Firstly, why were your ministers not open to opposition amendments during the wide debates? Do your ministers have so little appreciation space during the debate in Parliament? Why, as it were, respond mechanically negatively to proposals, even when they actually take over the words of your own colleagues? Secondly, why did the relevant ministers, De Sutter, Van Quickenborne and Van der Straeten, who have reported in the media, have their policy statement approved by the MPs of the majority, after all, the opposition voted against it in full awareness that they would change that statement afterwards? In other words, they have adopted a text which is de facto no longer accurate in terms of what they intended. They have now announced that they would amend the policy statement on the basis of opposition comments. Then at least one so-called version 2.0 was delivered to Parliament, and perhaps that is out of date. What statute does such a document have that, of course, does not change the adopted version? So we have an approved version and then a section 2.0 has been delivered to Parliament, but that has not been dealt with and has not been approved. What is its statute? If these three ministers are serious, the new document should be put to the vote in order to replace the previous one. If it does not, and I do not believe that this has happened, it is purely a publicity stunt without any value. Finally, do these announced changes also have budgetary implications? If so, will you take this into account when drawing up your budget?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic443x.u35	Mr President, Mr De Roover, the policy statement and the policy paper are specific documents set out in the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber. They represent a member of the government's view of the Chamber on the basis of the coalition agreement that has been concluded. As you know, a committee can adopt any recommendations when discussing a policy statement. All committees have indicated by a majority that they agree with the content of the policy statements. Why your recommendations were not adopted, you should ask the other groups. As a result of the discussions, a number of colleagues in the government have indicated that they will carry out a broader consultation and enrich their policy vision through additional suggestions, including those of the opposition. This was also announced transparently. The fact that a member of the government listens to the comments and gets to work with them does not seem to me to be prohibited. For the record, it is the government that draws up the guidelines on the basis of the confidence it has received from the Chamber. If a minister wishes to add new orientations to his or her policy, it is logical that this is first discussed within the government. That's what happened. It has been established that there has been no change to the coalition agreement on the basis of which this team operates. So there is no change in the budget approved by this Chamber. Since, as has been said, the policy paper and policy statement have a specific function, a new submission and treatment as such is not possible. Of course, a member of the government can always provide additional documents to the Chamber and invite members to hold an exchange of views on this matter, just as the Chamber can question and discuss a member of the government at any time about his or her policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic443x.u36	Mr President, Prime Minister, it is therefore a pure publicity stunt. It's a statement of zero and no value. Apparently, these changes, which took account of the opposition's comments, were so fundamental that the new documents were pure communications without meaning. You also say that I have to ask the other groups why they have adopted these policy statements. Why didn't your ministers say that approval had to wait because they wanted to submit an amended document for approval, since they had embraced the new open political culture? That didn't happen. That actually means that you are here to say that your announced new political culture in this respect is not old wine in new bags, but flat water in non-recyclable material. You've proven once again how much air is in your communication.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic443x.u37	Thank you, Prime Minister, for allowing me to ask this question. Your answer to the previous questions shows that you want to closely respect the rules in force and also the rules in force in Parliament. For example, there are rules on government communications. If the government wants to make communications, distribute them or run campaigns, then it is normal that prior advice should be sought from the Audit Board on electoral expenditure. We are indeed experiencing special times. We also note that government communications are being made, but I have missed the contacts with the Audit Board, of which I am a member. Perhaps I am reading the rules wrong, but it would be interesting to hear your opinion on this, Prime Minister. How do you see these regulations? Do you think you should have asked for advice? Will you do that in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic443x.u38	Mr President, due to the particular critical situation in which our country was in October 2020, the opinion of the Audit Committee was not requested in view of the urgency. This opinion should be requested 15 days in advance, which is obviously impossible in this context of a rapidly evolving pandemic. This does not, of course, exclude the possibility of requesting this in future for certain communications. One may wonder whether this video message, which was distributed through my personal channels - it was distributed through my own social media channels - is covered by this law at all. If one were to take that logic, any message from a member of the government in our country, on Twitter, on Facebook, on Instagram or on YouTube, should be reported two weeks in advance and should receive advice from the Audit Board. This has never been the case in the past decade, since the emergence of social media, not even among colleagues of your party in the previous government.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic443x.u39	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. I had also mentioned it in my question, of course we are experiencing special times and need to be played briefly on the ball. I take note of the fact that you say it was a form of government communication. You wonder whether the definition should be reviewed, because you do not rule out the possibility of seeking advice from the Audit Board in the future. I honestly think this is best cleared up. We all feel that there is a reasonable difference between a two and a larger communication from a member of the government. I invite the majority parties to reflect together and constructively on a practical procedure. Times have indeed changed. We live in more digital times. Make sure that there are at least clear agreements so that you and your government members know exactly what to do. At the moment, the possible ambiguity is more likely to lead to annoyance. We can avoid that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic443x.u40	Question No 50013041C by Mr Senesael is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic443x.u41	Mr President, I would like to take advantage of the Prime Minister's presence to ask when he will be back to answer the rest of the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic443x.u42	You take the words out of my mouth. There are 25 more questions that date from the beginning of this year. With all due understanding for your busy agenda, I would suggest that we do not wait too long to set a new date, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic443x.u43	Mr President, I will do so as soon as possible, because it is not a good thing that questions remain. For the Committee on European Affairs, I have the habit of doing so very shortly before and after a meeting. I think that's a good interaction. We will look for a date to catch up and to plan this more frequently, because questions relating to October last year are not a good thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic443x.u44	Thank you for the clarification.
