ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic497x.u1	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, in the presentation of your general policy note, you have told us that e-commerce - whose health crisis shows us even more important for our traders - will be the subject of special attention. You have also announced the establishment of an action plan to encourage self-employed people and businesses, and in particular SMEs, to switch to e-commerce. What is the status of this project? This action plan is vital given the health situation. Are any measures in preparation or have they even been taken?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic497x.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, like my colleague David Clarinval, I confirm my willingness to help independents and businesses, particularly SMEs, move on to e-commerce. On the other hand, I know that we share this exciting goal. My services are in the process of finalizing a free digital coaching and accompaniment project. The idea is to offer the self-employed, TPE and SMEs, who are faced with difficulties in digitising their professional activity, individual support provided by digital marketing and digital transformation professionals. The objective is clearly to save SMEs valuable time, to stimulate them to turn to e-commerce and to enable them to identify precisely the specific support they need to achieve this. They will then be free to apply to professionals in the private sector to deepen their knowledge and approaches. Discussions are ongoing, particularly with Agoria, to define synergies with existing projects. At the same time, in collaboration with professional federations and academia, my administration is preparing a study specializing in the digital transformation of enterprises aimed at defining the possibilities and risks of certain economic models applied to the digital transformation of enterprises. The aim is to collect information from academia, federations and the specialized sector, in order to raise awareness and support Belgian companies so that they can reap the benefits of digitalisation of the economy. Finally, these initiatives are specific to the federal government and complement regional initiatives in this area. I will be sure to identify, with my regional and federal counterparts, the joint opportunities to be implemented.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic497x.u3	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answers. I see that the file is moving forward, and that's very good since this coaching, this free accompaniment, is in place. I'm sure I'll come back to interview you. Indeed, synergy with the Regions is essential. No one can work on his side in such an important area, which is truly vital given the situation. We really need to allow all these companies and the TPEs to evolve. Perhaps I will come back with a written question to get practical details on the implementation of this action plan and to know exactly how it works, who is contacted by whom, and how. You talked about synergy with professional federations and the ongoing discussions. Thank you for confirming that the case is progressing and that we will be able to help all these companies as best we can.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic497x.u4	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I would like to apologize for my absence from the previous committee meeting. I could not be present, although there was an interesting question from me, about the master plan for the closed centers, on the agenda. I retabled that question as a written question. With regard to the digital road and the story of administrative simplification, I do have some experience, as I have been able to manage it for years, which was not always obvious. One of the days to come, moreover, I will table a legislative proposal on administrative simplification. Together with you and your services, I would like to try to work on this, to make it a priority, as there is so much work in this country on administrative simplification. The question now before us is about e-invoicing in Belgium. We gave an update of the figures every year. Those figures were very positive, e-invoicing is in the process of a very good advance. Mr Secretary of State, where exactly are we at? Can you make a comparison between the private sector and the government? What are your policy plans in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic497x.u5	Mr Secretary of State, I agree with the question put. Electronic billing is now the norm within public administrations. In the policy paper, you also talk about new initiatives that encourage the efficient use of electronic invoicing, including within companies. Mr Secretary of State, what initiatives have been taken in the meantime? What plans do you have, by what time? How many percent of the B2B invoices are already electronic?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic497x.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, since 2012, the Belgian authorities have been supporting the widespread use of electronic invoicing, especially among SMEs and public authorities. In this context, the FOD BOSA is charged with the task of informing, encouraging and seeking broad support. Since 2015, the FPS has been actively involved in the development of Peppol, a standardised ecosystem that allows the exchange of each structured electronic document. Today, no less than 40,000 Belgian companies have registered for these documents, placing Belgium second on the application of that global, standardised ecosystem. To raise awareness and support for companies, the Directorate-General for Digital Transformation of the FOD BOSA has set up the Hermes and Mercury platforms. Thanks to the Hermes platform, each sender of invoices can use, under certain conditions, the standardized ecosystem Peppol to send its invoices to trading partners in the Belgian public sector of 5,500 partners or from the private sector of 1,800,000 partners. The Mercurius platform, launched in 2014 and integrated into the Peppol ecosystem, helps all Belgian buyers and their suppliers to take the step towards large-scale electronic invoicing. The aim is to dematerialise the entire purchasing process. The platform is currently used by more than 2,000 contracting authorities and 15,000 suppliers and processes around 80,000 invoices per month. However, the potential of electronic invoicing is still underexploited in Belgium. One of the reasons for this is the number of different IT solutions. This increases costs for SMEs and for public authorities. It prevents them from introducing e-invoicing at reasonable cost. I therefore intend to pursue a policy aimed at adapting the offer in the light of a major standardisation. One way to do that would be to set up an accreditation programme for recommended products, the application of which would be encouraged. However, greater standardisation is not enough. E-invoicing also presupposes changes in the habits and processes of SMEs and public authorities. Therefore, measures will also be taken to increase awareness of e-invoicing and to identify key points for successful deployment. The FOD BOSA informs me that these measures can be implemented this year and will continue next year. Finally, I would like to point out that last year more than three quarters of the invoices sent as B2B to companies were sent in electronic form. This is the result of an online survey commissioned by the Administrative Simplification Service. This shows that we are making progress in encouraging e-invoicing, but there is still room for improvement.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic497x.u7	So, Mr Secretary of State, there will be a campaign for SMEs to make the platform even more public. There will also be some sort of standardisation or accreditation to more uniformize the way it happens. The figures also continue to rise. Meanwhile, the billing goes electronically for three quarters of the B2B. That's very good. I started with a quarter. In a number of years that goes up very style. That's a success story. That's good. The question is, what is an electronic invoicing? On the one hand there is the entrepreneur who scans and e-mails his invoice, which is also considered electronic invoicing and on the other hand there is the fantastic accounting where every field is digital. So there is a very large margin. You have our full support for further work on this. It is a very large cost savings for companies and SMEs. You also have my full support for that campaign. It is also important to cooperate with the Länder and the Flemish authorities on administrative simplification, such as electronic invoicing. It could be a paragon and a beautiful project.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic497x.u8	Mr Secretary of State, many initiatives are being taken, but you are also surprised by the complexity. It is certainly not easy to enter that. 50,000 or 80,000 digital invoices per month seems to be a large number but it is very little. Hopefully, a lot of efforts will continue, but it is not easy for people to change their habits. That's what you're experiencing very well. This is not always a win-win situation for SMEs either. Hopefully, good ways of working will be found. Standardisation is certainly a point to follow in this direction. There must certainly be proper consultation with the associations of undertakings. They may also be able to make this work for all parties.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic497x.u9	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, a number of politicians from other countries had a discussion with a perhaps counterfeit Russian general. Reality is sometimes more beautiful than a movie. That particular story raised questions about the way our government and government deal with telecommunications. Are certain security checks built in? Have such cases already taken place in Belgium? I would have liked to have received some more information from you, Mr Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic497x.u10	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I am familiar with deep fakes and their use for disinformation and even fraud. This phenomenon is one of the emerging challenges arising from technological developments. One might consider it a form of disinformation or fake news. This can be equated with identity theft. The existing legal arsenal only provides a partial response to this phenomenon. As the phenomenon of deepfake is perfected at a very rapid pace, this is a major challenge. Our security services are therefore made aware of the phenomenon of deep-fakes during their briefings. Disinformation, including deep fakes, is handled by our security services with an inter-departmental approach, through the hybrid threat working group. In this context, a separate task force is set up for this subject. More generally and as a preventive measure, last year's State Security published The hidden danger behind COVID-19 devoted a separate chapter to the risks of videoconferencing, with recommendations on how to make videoconferencing as safe as possible. In addition to the role of our intelligence services, it should also be stressed that the platforms on which fake news or disinformation circulates must also take responsibility and take action to prevent the spread of this phenomenon. The role of the European Union in the fight against fake news and disinformation must also be highlighted. I note that, starting from a fun and fun development, a technology can turn into an instrument that serves criminals or terrorists. This may be the case with deep fakes, as with all future technologies. I do not know in Belgium of such use of deepfake against politicians. I will pay particular attention to this, particularly with regard to the Digital Services Act at European level and the recent initiatives of the European Commission on disinformation. We must do everything we can to protect confidence in innovation and technologies. That's our role, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic497x.u11	Mr Secretary of State, it is good to hear that we have not had it ourselves, but let it be a remarkable story that should keep us awake. What I do see today on social media is the frequent use of false tweets and disinformation with the aim of stimulating polarisation on social media. Fake tweets of virologists are used to make people doubt. A user with a bit of a critical sense may still be able to distinguish such a false tweet or message from a real message, but if the technology continues and deep fakes are used, it becomes difficult as a user to know what to believe and what not to believe. You used the word identity fraud, indicating that these cases are criminal. I'm okay with that. We should not feel too sorry for people who are deliberately trying to destabilise things. We need to take a tough stand on that. We still have a long way to go. This is a new fact in our society and it is also an interesting theme to continue working around.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic497x.u12	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, the health crisis that we have been experiencing for more than a year has revealed and still reveals the difficulties of many citizens, particularly workers and civil servants, in adapting to the ever-increasing use of digitalisation required in their activities and their relationship to administration. Mr Secretary of State, the government agreement provides for the development of a comprehensive plan to improve the quality of public services involving a reduction in the administrative burden on citizens and businesses, in particular by improving digital services. The agreement also ensures that public services remain accessible to all, including citizens with few digital skills. Mr Secretary of State, can we have you back on this point? Do you have any elements to measure the difficulties of access by citizens at times when public services were mainly available online and little or no in-depth? Can you inform us about the initiatives undertaken and their status? In addition, an improvement in digital skills to bridge the digital divide is also mentioned. In this regard, your general policy note mentions "a plan to increase the digital skills of Belgians and workers in order to bridge the digital divide". Mr Secretary of State, can we be informed of the progress made in this area? Finally, we know that the health crisis has a real impact on the working conditions of federal agents. An evaluation of the digitalisation aspects (distance work, video conferencing, etc.) Has it been achieved? If so, can we get your return in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic497x.u13	Thank you, honourable Member, for your question on a topic that is of particular interest to me. We all realized this: the health crisis has had many effects on the lives of our fellow citizens, but also on the lives of our employees. In the face of these changes, I can tell you that our federal IT infrastructure has proven to be robust enough to enable our government to operate almost entirely digitally and remotely. Federal public servants have also demonstrated flexibility and accountability, which are essential to ensuring continuity of service. This has enabled citizens and businesses to continue to use our services. It is, however, a certain fact, when many people have had to adapt to the situation: the digital divide has widened for a very large number of our fellow citizens, already at a break or at the edge of the digital divide. Indeed, it must be noted that this crisis has given considerable impetus to digital work and its use, but has also clearly underlined and confirmed some of our weaknesses, such as the importance of having the minimum digital skills, both among our employees and among the users of our services. Moreover, the DESI ranking places our country in terms of digital skills at twelfth place out of twenty-seven: 40% of Belgians do not possess the basic skills. This challenge of digital skills is therefore the fundamental foundation of the society we want to build, a prosperous and supportive society. Reducing the digital divide is now becoming more than an issue; it is becoming an obligation and, above all, an emergency. For my part, I am convinced that reducing this digital divide requires better teaching, better training in coding, knowledge of digital tools, robotics, artificial intelligence. This conviction is all the more reinforced by the fact that, according to the BeTheChange study by Agoria, Belgium will need 310,000 IT profiles by 2030, 60% of which will have to have at least a knowledge of the fundamentals of artificial intelligence. This is what we must bring to everyone today: basic digital knowledge. We must at least help our fellow citizens acquire them so that they can carry the digital Belgium of tomorrow. For my part, and like you, I am sure, Mr. Senesael, it is out of the question of leaving anyone at the edge of the road. I am convinced that the fight against the digital divide is one of the key challenges of recovery. In this context, I have already had the opportunity to address digital public writers, the inter-federal Women in Digital plan, or the national coalition for digital skills. It is in this sense that I am working with all my colleagues. On your third question, a first assessment of work in times of health crisis is being finalized with the network of human resources managers and the College of Presidents. These evaluations show that our IT infrastructure was robust. It supported this work from a distance and ensured continuity of services. At the same time, our public servants have the basic skills to work remotely. However, I invite you to address my colleague in charge of the Civil Service for further information on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic497x.u14	Secretary of State, my warm thanks for the quality of your response through the elements provided. I will focus on two elements of reflection that arise from these. First, we can be pleased that the digital and remote operation has enabled the continuity of public service. Public service is in our DNA and when it is possible to pursue it, it is always a positive result to emphasize. The second observation – as we have seen intuitively – is confirmed by the figures put forward by the Secretary of State: 40% of Belgians do not have the minimum skills, which leads to an amplified digital divide with finger-pointed weaknesses and the minimum digital skills that need to be acquired. You are planning around 2030 to say that there will be efforts to be made, skills to be acquired and that this digital divide must be bridged at all costs. It's an emergency not to leave anyone at the edge of the road. I fully share the reflection on this subject. It is well known, and this has been stressed, that under the conditions of a recovery, a necessary revival, indispensable and priority, it will be necessary to put everything on the right scales so that this digital divide is easily manageable in order to reduce it. As the evaluation is under way, we will continue to pay close attention to the follow-up to this theme.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic497x.u15	Mr President, Secretary of State, cryptocurrency requires the permanent operation of a large number of computer processors, which implies considerable electricity consumption. The University of Cambridge estimated that electricity consumption in a country such as Belgium amounted to 57.82 % of that of bitcoin. I recently asked your colleague Mrs Khattabi about this, who invites me to turn to you for further information. I am therefore here his excellent advice. Secretary of State, can we get you back to this problem? The European Central Bank (ECB) has recently published a report on the possible creation of a European digital currency inspired by cryptocurrency, but one of the contributions could be the reduction of the carbon footprint of the monetary and payment system currently employed in Europe. However, there is a lack of information on the nature of the technology that could be used. Mr Secretary of State, can we have your point of view on this project and the technologies that can be used, as well as on its potential climate impacts?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic497x.u16	Mr President, honourable Member, I hope that I can live up to Mrs Khattabi's expectations on this answer. Anyway, I'll do everything I can for you. Bitcoin has long raised many questions about its environmental impact. In view of the many studies in this field, it is necessary to have the intellectual humility to recognize that we are not in a position to accurately assess the real impact of bitcoin and cryptocurrency on the environment. On the other hand, we also need to go further and be able to compare comparable things. For example, I do not have an estimate of carbon emissions from last to last in the global banking system as a whole. However, it can be easily understood that energy is also a major consumer of energy. Technically, to work, cryptocurrency relies on a blockchain system, which is very energy-intensive. Its nature implies a very high energy consumption which, by the way, is the condition of its safety. To date, there are no precise data on this subject that allow for a definite opinion, for various reasons: the imprecision of the data, the lack of data on the equipment used by minors or on their number, statistics on the use of electricity. For example, mining is rarely considered. This, of course, should not be a reason not to estimate this consumption. On the other hand, it is important to take a step back from comparisons, sometimes sensationalistic, often made. In this context, some cryptocurrencies carry out their own ecological consciousness examination. I take the example of the ethereum that announced that a new transaction validation process would be in place in the near future, which would be 99.95 per cent less energy efficient than the current process. Thus, since December 2020, the world's second cryptocurrency has been working to abandon the concept of proof of work in favour of the proof of record. The current technology (proof of work) would consume as much as a medium-sized country. The proof of cake would use as much energy as some 2,100 homes in the United States, the equivalent of a small town. In any case, it is hoped that cryptocurrency will evolve and improve, as is the case for traditional cars, with technological developments and energy policies. From an economic and financial point of view, in the face of the rise in cryptocurrency, the world's major central banks are currently exploring the possibilities of launching their own digital currency. The European Central Bank has been considering this for several months. The creation of a digital euro would have many advantages for individuals or businesses. Directly issued by the ECB, the digital euro would avoid bank deposit charges and therefore cost less. Transactions would be faster because they would avoid interbank settlements. Since transactions are encrypted and made falsifiable via blockchain technology, the money would also be secure and free from cyber attacks, losses or theft. Moreover, the centralized and transparent nature of the digital currency would make it possible to better combat money laundering and financial crime. This technology should be based, like conventional cryptocurrency, on blockchain technology that allows all transactions to be traced. Only the ECB would have the encryption key to access these data. No third party would have access to it. On climate impact, Christine Lagarde, President of the ECB, announced in January of this year that it would take at least five years to deploy a digital euro. Care must therefore be taken to explore the possibilities of finding the most environmentally friendly and secure solution possible by then. I am convinced, Mr Senesael, that we will be discussing this matter again.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic497x.u17	Mr. Secretary of State, I thank you once again for the quality of your response and for the intellectual humility that you have shown at the start of your speech. You have compiled an almost exhaustive picture of the technological developments of cryptocurrencies with their energy and climate impact. The comments you made are really interesting. Here we are talking about a beautiful theme to follow, and your answers will make a significant contribution to it. As you pointed out at the end of your answer, I will not fail to follow this file and return to you so that we can analyse together the different forms of the evolution of the latter.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic497x.u18	Mr President, this question may also be in line with my colleague's question, but the questions were not merged. Since I had to take a vote at another committee meeting, I have not been able to fully listen to the question, which is why I keep my question. Mr Secretary of State, the increasing digitalisation means that many companies need people with an IT profile, but they are scarce, as you know. Companies can hardly find those profiles anymore. This is certainly a problem for SMEs, as they are often unable to provide the same working conditions as large companies. The deficit is affecting economic growth and innovation in Belgium. In your policy paper, you mentioned that you want to focus on the development of digital skills, with the introduction of Digital Plan Belgium. Mr Secretary of State, what is the status of that plan? What does it mean in concrete terms? On what time do you intend to roll out that plan? If you repeat yourself, in the light of my colleague's question, I apologise, but I have not been able to follow your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic497x.u19	Mr President, honourable MP, according to Agoria's Be The Change study, Belgium will need more than 300,000 IT profiles by 2030, of which 60% should at least have knowledge of the source principles of artificial intelligence. Our SMEs will therefore in the near future need staff capable of meeting tomorrow's challenges. To support our SMEs, our economy, our public services and, more generally, our people in taking advantage of tomorrow's tools and knowledge, today we need a global and federating vision, a vision that integrates existing projects and connects with various initiatives and plans, such as the national investment plan, the recovery plan or the plan for a digital Belgium, for which Alexander De Croo gave the first impetus for a global vision. The project smart nation I carry out is the idea of bringing together the energies of a territory in a coherent way. After nine months as Secretary of State for Digitalization, I am convinced that all the necessary talent is present in Belgium. We simply need to initiate a coherent and efficient consultation process, a new working method that not only creates content but also makes connections. We must work with everyone and let everyone work with the actors in the field, with the various institutions, with the academic world, etc., to identify and, above all, support promising digitisation projects. I'm just thinking about one of the puzzle pieces of the smartnation puzzle. The Belgian Plan for Recovery and Resilience, submitted on 30 April, becomes an essential part of digitalisation. It will enable us to give an additional impetus to Belgium's digital transformation. No less than 25 projects were selected for an investment of around 580 million euros. Particular attention will be paid to the digitisation of public services and the remembrance of government processes. This should help to relieve citizens and businesses so that they can respond effectively and efficiently to their requests. I will come back to this when Europe has made its decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic497x.u20	Mr Secretary of State, the re-launch plans still need to be rolled out. I hear everyone has to work together. Connecting everything is always the big challenge. That would be a good solution. The talent is there, but not abundant. It's not that easy to teach everyone those skills right away. I would like to hear how the puzzle of cooperation will be laid out and how the relay plan will be effectively rolled out in practice. The committee certainly wants to help with this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic497x.u21	Secretary of State, cybersecurity must be a national and European priority. In March, the Cybersecurity Center warned against a tsunami of cyberattacks. As many as 1,200 companies would be at risk of being hacked. In the meantime, it has also been shown that our governments are insufficiently armed. How many Belgian companies have been hacked over the past year? What was the financial damage to the SMEs concerned? Do all those involved share them? Do you think there are still many unknown cases? You intend to launch a cyber scan for SMEs together with Minister Clarinval. When's that gonna happen? What exactly does that mean?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic497x.u22	Mrs Verhelst, on the one hand, received over 3,000 notifications last year from CERT.be, the operational service of the Cybersecurity Centre Belgium. Last year it received 7,333 notifications. However, the number of notifications at CERT.be does not fully reflect the number of cyber incidents in Belgium. That number is many times higher. Companies and private individuals rarely report it when they are the victims of a cyber incident. They don't always press charges with the police either. On the other hand, it should also be said that there is no reporting obligation for cyber incidents, except for some providers of essential services and digital service providers officially identified under NIS legislation. Moreover, there is currently no official estimate of the financial damage to the Belgian economy. It is also difficult to calculate the total cost of cybercrime for Belgian SMEs. However, there is no evidence that Belgium suffers more from cyber attacks than other countries. On the contrary, in the general cybersecurity index, Belgium has been among the top five of the most cyber-safe countries in the European Union in recent years. I also refer to the recent cybersecurity strategy of the CCB, which stresses the importance of raising awareness among citizens and organisations. I will help implement this goal with, for example, the cyberscan, which is currently being developed by the FPS Economy. The cyberscan should become an instrument for SMEs to allow them to measure their ability to withstand the risks of cyber attacks. This project is clearly in line with the more general objective of the cybersecurity strategy to help SMEs cope with cyber attacks. The FPS Economy has assured me that a first version of the project should see the light of day before the end of 2021.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-02-definitief-55-commissie-ic497x.u23	Mr Secretary of State, not all cases are indeed reported, nor the damage suffered. Perhaps we should also point out the importance of an incident? Perhaps victims would report such incidents if they understood the importance of them. We would also have a clearer view of the problem, which would benefit everyone. Apart from raising awareness of the problem, it may also be necessary to give a reason to the companies to report incidents, even after they have defeated an attack or paid off their attackers. I'm glad the FPS Economy is working on a cyber scan. It might also be interesting to establish contacts on certain initiatives. I have the impression that there are already private initiatives for a cyber scan. Perhaps one can learn from what already exists on the market for a fee and the cyberscan can be tested against it. You could possibly contact us for cooperation. We certainly like to follow the file with you.
