ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic438x.u1	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Steven De Vuyst's 55014079C has not been withdrawn, but has been postponed. So she will return to the agenda at another meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic438x.u2	Madam Minister, we have already asked questions about this in the past, including on 10 February. Then you replied that for Belgium one of the two VLSs were designated as provisions for, which means that they are only equipped with 8 cells for rockets, whereas in the Netherlands there are 16. You also replied that the possible realisation of ballisticmissile capacity is not covered by the Memorandum of Understanding and the foreseen budget, which does not ensure our participation in a ballistic missile shield and the integration of the SM-3. Those statements make us frown a little bit. That is why I have a few punctual questions to clarify. First of all, does Defense 1 VLS consider it sufficient to guarantee the impact of the ship on a modern battlefield? How does that stand in relation to the other frigates of the youngest generation? Secondly, how does the firepower of our new frigates relate to the present ships, which are equipped with 16 cells? Thirdly, taking into account possible changing future threats, do you think that the provisions for systems could be further completed in the future? What would the additional costs be to ensure a second VLS and a firepower similar to the Dutch? Fourthly, can the provisions for a second VLS be filled in by another weapon system? Finally, as regards the announced ballistic capacity that would not be filled out, does the government support the ambition to achieve it somehow? If so, what concrete steps will you take?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic438x.u3	Mr President, your question was already very complete. So I'm skipping my introduction. Madam Minister, your response of February this year has led to a great deal of unrest and even consternation with a large number of military personnel, and even with international experts, who are very surprised. How does such a decision come about? Who makes such decisions, who makes such proposals? Is that the staff, the cabinet, the project group? What level in the chain eventually gives the approval? In an earlier reply, you spoke of "some subsystems." What sub-systems are also being adapted? Do the specific ASW functions of the new frigates................................ include this?............................................................................... In my question I mentioned, among other things, a typical sonar for that purpose. Has the exercise, which seems to have been in full swing, been completed by now? Are there any changes to the concept of frigates? If so, where is the lower limit? From which lower limit does downgrading stop? Has that lower limit been determined? What is the saving on one such frigate if the 8 cells of the VLS are removed? We ordered two of these frigates.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic438x.u4	Mr President, Mr Pillen, the future Anti-Submarine Warfare Frigates can be equipped with one or two eight-cell vertical launch systems that allow the integration of different types of missiles. This modular implementation allows to respond to new and future developments and to spread the acquisition over time. The firepower of the new frigates will be higher than the capacity of the current M-frigates and meet NATO targets. The Dutch acquisition process of the VLS is still at the stage of information exchange with industry, which makes it impossible to share cost prices. If a different weapon system were to be installed than the currently foreseen VLS, the configurations between the Belgian and the Dutch ASWF would differ, which is not recommended. The realisation of the announced BMD capacity is not covered by the Memorandum of Understanding for the replacement of the M-frigates of 8 June 2018. In the binational assignment there is only provision for. Evolutions of the ASWF project which may affect the final product, such as provisions for, are submitted by the binational project bureau to the competent binational Joint Steering Committee within the previously defined limits. The basic configuration shall meet the requirements of an operationally deployable ASWF with associated capabilities, as specified in the Memorandum of Understanding for the replacement of the M-fregates.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic438x.u5	Madam Minister, I have not received any answers to a number of questions. I do not think I have been given an estimate of the cost and the budgetary consequences of the additional or reduced expenditure combined with this choice of provisions for this purpose. As far as ballistic capacity is concerned, I have not received an answer either. You say it's not in the memorandum of understanding. You said that last time, so you say nothing new, but you do not provide any additional information, despite my explicit question. It is no longer clear to us whether the government still has that ambition and, if so, what concrete steps will be taken. You say that the firepower in relation to the current systems is fine and complies with NATO targets, but this is a special decision that is being made here. I think it would be useful to better assess the technical consequences of the political choices you are making. I therefore propose that this be discussed, not in this committee but at the next meeting of the Committee on Army Procurement.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic438x.u6	Madam Secretary, you say that the new frigates in the field of firepower will score better than the current frigates. I think this is positive. We need to remember that. I'm also looking forward to more details on that. However, I would urge you, the staff and the binational working group to review this decision. I really think we're making a mistake if we equip our new frigates with eight cells instead of the planned 16 cells. In the Netherlands, the Seven Provinces class has 40 cells. We don't have that luxury in Belgium. We don't have different class frigates. We cannot choose from different platforms. We only have two. That is a choice that was made and which I also defend, but then we have to make sure that those two frigates are perfectly equipped. You did not answer the question about savings. That's not a problem. I have heard that this would save about EUR 15 million. That's a decision I wouldn't make in advance, Madam Secretary. I urge you to ask your people to do their homework again. I really think it's problematic that our frigates will have to control the world's seas over the next few decades, the street of Hormuz, the Black Sea, where it's currently a spice barrel with less cells than a typical Russian corvet. That's really problematic. I'm asking you to reconsider that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic438x.u7	Minister, I have already asked you about access to Lagland's military domain. This camp was accessible to residents with permission to identify them. The site was closed following the attacks 2016. You justified the continuation of its closure by the fact that offences and damage were committed on the site.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic438x.u8	Madam Minister, my first question is with that of my colleague Mr Arens. I wanted to discuss with you the access of the residents to Camp Lagland. A flagship location in the province of Luxembourg, specifically Arlon, the Lagland camp is highly appreciated by walkers and residents of the region. This camp is a site that has been shared between military activity and occasional walkers, a coexistence that has always gone well for 14 years now. Following the attacks in Brussels and the raising of the alert level, the camp security service stopped granting access cards. For five years now, no one can venture into the scene, first because of the attacks, then because of swine fever and, today, because of covid-19. At present, citizens are calling for the reopening of Camp Lagland and are asking the authorities for access cards to be granted to them again. Minister, as the partnership between the camp and the residents has been going well for 14 years, can you tell us on what basis the decision to cease licensing has been made? Knowing that outdoor walks are part of the activities still tolerated, do you intend to make arrangements so that these residents can access Lagland wood peacefully again? What is your opinion on the matter? As Mr. Chairman has suggested, I will go on with my second question. It is up to me through my Luxembourg contacts that the Defence would consider moving the guard and monitoring of the sites of the Bastin quarter and the Lagland camp. At the very least, it would be five members of our Defence personnel who carry out this task on a daily basis. Do you confirm to me such a will, such a project? If so, by whom would these tasks be ensured? Private security companies? What would be the prerogatives of these people?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic438x.u9	Mr Arens, Mrs Hanus, the ban on access to Camp Lagland was decided in response to the numerous offences found within the military domain. Despite this ban, a number of offences remain to be deplored, although they are fewer than before the African swine fever crisis. With regard to the nature of the offences and their perpetrators, the Defence has identified, for example, intrusions into the restricted area during the period of firing, at the risk that the persons concerned will be shot or fall on an unexploded device. Thefts were also reported. As a result, PVs were drawn up by the police. In addition, there is a recurrence of deterioration within the bivouac areas. This is how chemical toilets have been ransacked. In addition, waste is regularly recovered, whereas it is a Natura 2000 area. As for the path of strengthening controls, the status of the workforce does not allow for exploration at this time. In addition, DNF officers may, for their part, establish a VP in a military field only in the event of hunting offences and infringements of the protection of nature. In addition to the offences to be deplored on the Lagland site, it is important to remember that Defence activities may involve risks. It is therefore essential to ensure strict supervision of citizens' access to military fields. Having said that, I fully understand the demand of citizens in general and residents in particular to be able to access this magnificent site, located in the middle of the forest zone. Moreover, this is a growing demand from the population in this period of health crisis, which limits our activities. That is why I have requested that a general study be conducted on the accessibility of all military areas, with a view to objecting to the situation. The first results have just come to me. They must now be analysed in order to be able to make the relevant decisions and, if necessary, to resolve the practical aspects that would result from them. Of course, I will keep you informed of the follow-up that will be reserved for this matter. Where all conditions are met, accessibility will be permitted. Finally, the outsourcing of the guard at Bastin General Quarter and Lagland Camp is in fact under consideration. At this stage, however, it is premature to mention the tasks that staff would have to carry out.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic438x.u10	Minister, thank you for your answers. I would like to stress the good relations between civilians and defence in South Luxembourg. If civilians wish to have access to the camp, it is important to know that the military often use the mayors of the region to be able to have land for their various exercises in the communes. It was in this global context of good understanding between Defence and the Nation that these sites were opened. Madam Minister, I expect you to see these sites reopened to the residents and that the good relations we have always maintained between the Defens and the citizens of the communes of South Luxembourg can continue. You have visited the military domain of North Luxembourg and I would like to invite you to visit the military domain of the country of Arlon. You'll be welcome. We look forward to hearing from you about the situation of this Lagland military camp. We will speak to you in French even if our mother tongue is Luxembourg.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic438x.u11	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer to my first question attached to that of my colleague. I am indeed delighted to be able to relay to my local contacts and to the inhabitants of the province of Luxembourg that our request is currently under consideration, following my joint request with my colleague Josy Arens. I will not fail to recall your good follow-up in this case. The inhabitants of Arlon and the southern part of the province of Luxembourg thank you for this. Of course, we all understand that a set of conditions must be met in order to give this access. It doesn't happen overnight. First and foremost, it is a defence space, which must be reserved primarily for defence activities. If conditions allowed, opening this space to walkers would be a real added value for the nearby inhabitants. Again, thank you for them, as well as for the staff assigned to Arlon. With regard to my question on outsourcing, I take note of your first answer. I will not hesitate to come back to you to find out more about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic438x.u12	Mr. Chair, Minister, my initial question was about the distribution of the remaining masks among the federated entities. But since the situation is quite different today, I will drop all my questions on this subject to concentrate on the issue of controversial chemicals and on the follow-up to the suspension of this distribution. A few weeks ago, we experienced a new episode of the resolutely cursed saga of masks. Indeed, the latter containing silver nanoparticles and titanium dioxide with potential respiratory risks over the long term, the government preferred to stop the distribution of these masks. However, the situation remains worrisome because, according to your reply in January, five million masks have already been distributed and have therefore been used for several months. I had the opportunity to question your predecessor in a special Covid committee who was able to answer some of my questions. Indeed, if you are in charge of this case today, it is he who initiated it. Minister, can you tell me what will happen to the remaining mask stocks? Have all masks already distributed in pharmacies been recovered by the Defence? Why were citizens not invited to bring their mask back to their pharmacist? Does the Defence intend or can it turn in any way against Avrox?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic438x.u13	Mr President, Madam Minister, on Wednesday, February 17, a CPAS adviser from the municipality of Frasnes-lez-Anvaing reported on a stock of seven million masks available from the Ministry of Defence and urged the CPAS council to "contact the provincial commander, Mr. Guy Dobbelaere, so that our citizens can benefit from them", stating that "these masks could also be useful to the administrative and technical services of the municipality". According to my information, the redistribution of these masks had to be organised by the federated entities and not on the sole initiative of one or the other communal councillor or CPAS informed of the availability of these masks. In addition, it would appear that you have indicated in the press that these masks were purchased by the Ministry of Health during the previous legislature. We've talked a lot about it since then. They would therefore not be the property of the Defence, even if they were stored by the army. A note was reportedly submitted for consideration by the Council of Ministers. Therefore, Madam Minister, in terms of a thorny subject, let me acknowledge it, as is the issue of the availability of masks and in order to avoid any confusion harmful to the citizens, I ask you the following questions. What was the intended distribution method for these seven million masks? Was there any question at any time of redistributing these masks on the basis of applications and communal initiatives? Have you or a member of the Defence staff received similar requests from other municipalities? Is there a procedure for communal applications?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic438x.u14	Mr Dallemagne is not yet here. Maybe he'll join us later. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic438x.u15	My colleague Minister of Public Health, Frank Vandenbroucke, had the opportunity to provide the answers to some of your questions at the plenary session on Thursday, February 25, when he answered Mr. Freilich's question on so-called toxic oral masks. The Minister of Health made a commitment to make every effort to obtain comprehensive analytical results as quickly as possible. He also pointed out that this was a time-consuming process, hence the preventive measures decided upon. As far as your questions about health are concerned, I refer you to my colleague with expertise in this area. With regard to the distribution of masks, we had sent letters to the Presidents of the Communities and the Regions without imposing criteria. We had received a request. Some municipalities had inquired about the procedure for obtaining masks. Pending the response of the other levels of power, we had not responded to these communal demands. Since then, as you know, the deal has obviously changed. On the recommendation of the Higher Council of Health and after consultation with the Minister of Public Health, as a precautionary measure and pending further scientific information, the distribution of masks has been suspended. As soon as I have in my possession the conclusions of the Sciensano study, I will be able, in agreement with the government, to decide on the allocation of these masks.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic438x.u16	Minister, thank you for these answers. It's definitely a case where nothing ever goes the way it would have been. I think it will still be necessary to carry out an ex post analysis in order to understand why this dossier has caused so many problems. Today, EUR 40 million have been lost in this case. There is no point in lying: even if people are proved that these masks are not toxic, no one will ever want to use them. So I really don't see what we could do with these masks, except to destroy them. This requires a deepening of the process used in this case, because the credibility of the political world, which has already been heavily attacked in recent months, is at stake in the management of this health crisis. Indeed, we are subjected to many criticisms when we do what we can. As far as I am concerned, I am saddened that a mailbox company with accounts in the Cayman Islands without any experience in the field can be legally chosen in the context of a public procurement. I think it is also high time to question the rules on public procurement, because they raise many questions. If I understand correctly, we still don't know what we're gonna do with these masks. I'll put the question to you when we find out more.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic438x.u17	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. I'm just a little bit hungry. Finally, I lack details of what may have meant that at some point some communes were informed of the existence of these masks and others not. So some municipalities could claim to make an appeal. During this kind of period, it's always a very delicate subject. We're afraid, we're a little traumatized by our situation. We're thinking that it might still happen that masks are missing. Very quickly, the neighbouring communes also reacted by asking how it was that they did not have the information. If at some point these masks are reassigned, I hope, for the political integrity that I know is dear to you too, that the procedures will be very transparent and very clear and that the information will circulate in a more traditional way, through more formal channels. Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic438x.u18	Madam Secretary, the land component would currently be testing the DJI Matrice 300 drones in Lombardsijde. Those drones would serve for Defense as support for operations and daily missions, as well as for force protection missions to avoid intrusion into our military bases, both domestic and foreign. The purpose of these tests would be to go to the market in the near future with a more detailed set of requirements. Madam Secretary, the DJI Matrice 300 drone is Chinese made. What security measures does the Defense intend to implement in the purchase of such equipment and its deployment in our military domains? How can this be reconciled with the 'buy European' approach, which the government entered into in its coalition agreement? On the domain of Brustem a droneport was developed in recent years. Given the small scale of the devices, doesn't the Defense Department see any benefit in working with the local industry to develop or purchase its own model that corresponds to the requirements of the Defense Department? What cooperation is there with our privileged partners The Netherlands and Luxembourg? In Mali, the United Kingdom is now studying the deployment of a small tactical DefendTex Drone-40, which can be deployed and armed from a grenade launcher. Is the DOD also investigating these new paths or is it rather a classic effort? We've already discussed different types of drones. After the Raven, it was decided earlier this year to purchase the Puma and the Integrator, on which questions are pending, and soon the SkyGuardian will also become operational. What type of drone is the DOD currently looking at to expand its arsenal? Is it perhaps useful to develop a strategic plan so that we can get a full picture of our drone fleet and find out what different types are needed? Is the deployment of drones across the different units considered in Defence's plans or is it intended that some units, such as ISTAR, specialise in the protection of the entire organisation?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic438x.u19	The DJI Matrice 300 is a commercially available drone, which was purchased through a multi-annual, open agreement as part of a proof of concept, in which Defense explores how to use micro-UAS in operation in the future. The agreement contains certain security measures and there is permanent coordination between the user, the General Intelligence and Security Service (ADIV) and the air safety authorities. There is no intention to deploy the DJI Matrice 300 operationally for militaryly sensitive purposes. From the proof of concept a need will arise for more robust military off-the-shelf micro-UAS, where the safety aspect will be one of the criteria. In the case of purchases, Defence must respect public procurement legislation and European regulations, which of course also happened when the relevant multi-annual open agreement was concluded in 2018. There are currently no development programmes with the Belgian industry in the field of UAS, but there are contacts with Droneport. There is an international cooperation with Luxembourg in the field of mini-UAS and with the Netherlands and Luxembourg for the tactical UAS. Defense doesn't investigate the deployment of armed micro- and mini-UAS. Defence is studying the construction of a UAS capacity covering the different classes, micro- and mini-UAS, tactical UAS, MALE and a participation in NATO's High Altitude Long Endurance project. On the one hand, a distributed deployment of larger numbers of micro drones in the different units of the Land Component and on the other hand, a specialised deployment of tactical drones in the battalion ISTAR and in the Navy, as well as of the MALE in the Air Component.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic438x.u20	Madam Minister, you say that the necessary security measures have been taken in relation to that Chinese-made commercial device and that it will not be used for sensitive tasks. This means that it would be the intention to use the device at other times. I'd really like to argue for security measures. You refer to the law on public procurement, which is, of course, correct, but if that is your answer every time, when it comes to defence, then the consequence will be that we will be able to purchase Chinese equipment with the regularity of the clock, not only the commercial mini-drones, but also other devices, if they are able to offer a better price. I therefore call for your ambitions on the "buy European" approach to be strengthened, as you yourself have described. I am also looking forward to the plan to coordinate the various types of drones in order to achieve some coordination in this area. For example, is it not a missed chance that the possibility of arms is not being investigated? Should we not dare to look at that? I am not saying that we must necessarily decide that we will then buy those devices, but should we not consider what the meaning of it might be?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic438x.u21	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Freilich withdrew his question because he had already been answered.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic438x.u22	Mr President, I do not know if we are lagging behind. Maybe the Defense Commission is extremely active. Maybe that's what it's all about.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic438x.u23	One doesn't necessarily rule out the other.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic438x.u24	Mr President, Minister, we remain with the drones. A number of issues have already been published on this subject. Belgium had purchased two RQ-21 Integrator systems by the end of 2020. There is a capacity gap, which is also endorsed by both PESCO and NATO. As always, cooperation with the Netherlands and Luxembourg was looked at in this area. As you know, I am very much in favour of this. They had already bought five such systems together. They had also concluded a concrete formal cooperation agreement on it. Madam Minister, I had asked two questions on this subject, which are still topical, although I know that agreements have been reached on this matter, both with the Dutch and with the Luxembourgers. Nevertheless, I would have liked to have had an answer to my questions on how exactly this went. What exactly is in the agreement? In what way will cooperation take place? Is it a question of integrating the three systems on a single basis and under one command, or are they still national systems, with cooperation being considered where possible, for example in the field of maintenance and training?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic438x.u25	Madam Minister, the advantage of submitting my question is that it dates from 16 March 2021, which already passed 10 March 2021 and the MOU, which dates from that last date, was signed by Belgium, the Netherlands and Luxembourg for the acquisition of the capacity referred to by Mr Pillen. Seven systems will be purchased by the partner countries, of which the Belgian Defence would only purchase two. Parliament has already agreed to the purchase of the Puma and Integrator systems. Madam Secretary, can you explain the exact form of cooperation? Does it relate only to the purchase or also to the maintenance, training and improvement of the drone capacity of the Benelux countries? Secondly, we only buy two of the seven new systems. Can you indicate exactly what the five other systems are? What functions do they fill in? Why did our partner countries buy them in and we didn't? Thirdly, is the defence industry involved in any way in cooperation? Do you see any possibility of extending the partnership to counter-drone strategies?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic438x.u26	On 10 March 2021, all partners signed an agreement on an adapted partnership or an MOU. As a result, Belgium will join this international acquisition of Boeing Insitu's RQ-21 Integrator. Belgium will therefore follow the provisions of the Military Programming Act and NATO's demand for such capacity. We are therefore responding, implicitly, to the shortages of ISR resources of this type within the European Union. Within the framework of the partnership, the purchase of 7 identical RQ-21 Integrator systems is planned, 3 by the Netherlands, 2 by Luxembourg and 2 by Belgium. Both the configuration and the functions that the systems can complete are identical. The cooperation will consist of centralising the administrative management of the systems from the Netherlands, as well as organising the formations within the Joint ISTAR Command of the Dutch Land Force, located in 't Harde. One of the two Luxembourg systems will be permanently maintained in 't Harde for training purposes. In addition to using the Luxembourg system as a training or training system, Belgium will be able to make maximum use of the Dutch know-how on the use of such systems in the past. In this way the necessary experience can be built up, both in its formation and in its exploitation. The systems are purchased through an already existing Dutch contract with Boeing Insitu. This contract was concluded by the Netherlands at the time in accordance with the current European directives on public procurement. The two Belgian systems will form an integral part of the battalion ISTAR Heverlee, but will be seconded to Nieuwpoort, in the military camp of Lombardsijde. These systems can be used autonomously under Belgian command, both for training purposes and for an operational deployment. Long-term efforts at this stage of cooperation can only be made in a multinational context. The cooperation agreement Short Range Tactical Unmanned Aerial Systems does not provide for a partnership with regard to counter-drone strategies.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic438x.u27	Madam Secretary, this is a very positive dossier. I think it is very good that we are working together for these new systems and technologies. I think it is even better that we do this with colleagues from the Netherlands and Luxembourg. That's a format we should use even more. I've argued for that on several occasions. The cooperation, training and management were knocked off with the colleagues, which is very positive. I am surprised that the aircraft will be used in Lombardsijde. We'll follow up on this. It is certainly a good thing that Lombardy is being rebuilt.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic438x.u28	Madam Minister, contrary to what we have read in a number of articles, it is not about different systems but about seven identical systems. That's an important nuance you're putting here. If it is indeed about identical systems, then the distribution you have outlined is certainly in order. We will continue to follow up on this file and find out the exact details.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic438x.u29	Mr Francken is not here, but Mr Pillen does not have to be the victim. I propose that we now deal with these combined questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic438x.u30	Madam Secretary, we were able to read in the press that agreements were being made on the vaccination of military personnel leaving for operations. You know I've always been an advocate of that. I have also heard that our NATO troops have been vaccinated in Lithuania. In the media it was also reported that soldiers who are not vaccinated risk not being allowed to go on foreign mission. Vaccination remains an individual choice according to current policy. I have a few questions about this. Can you give more information on the agreements made with the Health Ministers and their services on the vaccination of military personnel? Can you confirm that the Department of Defense made the decision not to send soldiers who refuse vaccination? After all, that appeared in the press. Was this formalized in the meantime? Is the DOD going to generally introduce the mandatory vaccination as a condition to be sent out? This would make an exception to the general policy rules. Finally, I also heard that some action theatres are currently subject to an age limit for the deployment of military personnel. Is the Defence Department working on a general directive or is it only in anticipation of being able to vaccinate soldiers before leaving for the various action theatres?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic438x.u31	It was agreed with the Task Force Vaccination to vaccinate 1,800 military personnel operationally deployed in the following months. The doses required for this purpose have meanwhile been received. The planning of the other vaccinations follows the general planning of the vaccination strategy and is determined by the category of personnel involved. The Department of Defense intends to take the covid vaccine as a vaccination at departure for operations. The obligation and its possible consequences are currently being analysed by the medical specialists. So she wasn't formalized yet. The age limit is medically substantiated and is applied temporarily, pending the administration of vaccines. This limit will not become a general directive. As the medical facilities in an operating theatre are limited, this temporary measure aims to protect the group that may show the most severe symptoms. The prior quarantine shall be maintained provisionally and for safety reasons. Moreover, the quarantine has often been imposed by the organisation or country in which the military will operate. In any case, this is a consultation matter with the partners concerned. No figures are available on refused vaccinations for foreign use, but no significant reduction of deployable personnel is expected. The need for such vaccinations, as well as the possible consequences of an unvaccinated broadcast, are known in military personnel leaving in surgery. On 15 March, priority vaccination of operational detachments began. For example, 1,508 soldiers had already been vaccinated on the date of 16 April. The vaccination of the rest of the personnel in surgery is scheduled for this week. The mitigation measures were also refined to further reduce the risk of contamination on the spot. The crew of the frigate Leopold I carried out a quarantine prior to departure. In order to ensure maximum protection of the ship's covid-free bubble, direct interactions with the French ship will be kept to the minimum.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic438x.u32	Thank you, Madam Minister, for your detailed answer, which is common sense for me. I think that this policy can be defended, even though I hear that some people are very disappointed if they cannot leave at the last minute. It is a positive development that this vaccination is included in the list of vaccinations that are required to leave in surgery. I hope that you will be able to clarify this very quickly. Finally, I would like to congratulate the services, because, if I have understood you correctly, 1,508 soldiers have already been vaccinated on the total of 1,800 you spoke of at the beginning of your reply. That means we're almost there. That's a logistics piece. DOD has shown in the covid committee that she can do that perfectly, and she shows that for her own staff as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic438x.u33	Mr President, Minister, in the aftermath of the foiled terrorist attack in Verviers and the subsequent terrorist attacks in Brussels and Zaventem in early 2016, it was decided to purchase a search robot to screen websites and social media for terrorist threats and/or radicalisation. This step was taken within the framework of a cooperation agreement between state security, ADIV and the federal police. In February, apparently, you will soon confirm or deny this agreement between the three administrations to terminate the contract with the Dutch software developer, because the search robot apparently did not meet the expectations. According to my information, the federal police wrote a report of over 100 pages, showing that the system isn't working properly. Again, according to my information, it would also be the case that the federal police have never been to an education organised by the software package provider. It is, among other things, on the basis of that report from the federal police that the contract would have been terminated by now. I don't know if you can confirm that. In any case, I have also asked your colleague this question. As far as cooperation between security services is concerned, I do not think this is a good example. However, the cost of the so-called super software package was not less. 11 million euros were paid for investments and about 5 million euros in operating costs. This gives a total of EUR 16 million. Madam Secretary, can you confirm that the contract with the Dutch firm that developed and delivered the software to our security services has now been terminated? If so, what are the reasons for this? In other words, why does the product not meet the expectations? How could this not be foreseen? In the meantime, has the company been notified of the cessation? When did this happen? Until when does the current contract normally run and what are the conditions for early termination? Finally, and not unimportantly, what steps are currently being taken in the search for a worthy alternative, should that be necessary? What timeline is used for this? I know that at the time there were alternatives to the chosen contract, which are faster and, above all, cheaper. I've got the list of contestants here. How do you intend to move forward with this in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic438x.u34	Mr President, Mrs Ponthier, the deadline for the contract is now 31 August 2021. At the start of the project, the needs were translated into operational, technical and functional specifications by the three partners. In addition to the common needs, account had to be taken of the specific needs of each entity, as they were entrusted with very different tasks. At the time of the realization of the market it was impossible to fill the needs with commercial off-the-shelf software, which forced a development. The solution provided was in accordance with the specifications as defined in the specifications, but no longer meets the expectations of the customers, which has been changed by the duration of the process and by the rapid evolution of the technology. For the administration it was impossible to change the initial needs or to integrate additional needs into the purchase process as long as the provisional delivery had not taken place. The three entities do not wish to invest further in the project, as there has been too great a difference between the solution provided on the basis of the now obsolete specifications and the current common and specific expectations. Evolutionary maintenance would not provide a solution in the short term and would also require additional substantial budgetary efforts. On 23 February, the contract was automatically terminated by the contracting authority, taking into account a notice period of 180 calendar days starting on 4 March 2021. The contract also provided for a maintenance contract for the life of the system, but will now end on 31 August 2021. The termination of the contract under the conditions set out above shall not constitute a right to compensation for any party. This dossier has shown that in this case the one-size-fits-all approach does not work because the specific operational and tactical needs of each entity need to be filled in differently. It will be ensured that a maximum of the funds, which have already been replaced by the current contract, can be recovered. It is intended that the parties will sit around the table within six months to study the various possibilities.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic438x.u35	Madam Minister, your answer contains a number of bizarre elements. You have made it clear that the contract will therefore expire on 31 August, with a notice period starting on 4 March. The reason would be that the firm could not meet the rapid evolution of the technology. This is very bizarre for a so-called super software package in which we have invested EUR 16 million and which benefits the security of all of us. I really dare to look at that with the necessary suspicion. Did it go wrong in the negotiations? Has it gone wrong in the knowledge of the firms that have offered? I don't know. At that time, no sensible choice was made. I am sure you will agree with me on that. There is also no right to compensation if the firm does not meet the required requirements. This is a similar situation to the contract concluded with the HRM@Defence. There too, there has been a failure and the negotiating arrangements are not in place. Within six months, there will be another sitting around the table to see what we can achieve in the future. Until then, therefore, we will find ourselves in some sort of vacuum in the area of overall security policy. In a world that is changing very quickly and is rapidly taking on new forms in the field of geopolitics and cyber threats, it seems to me to be very sensible to focus quickly on a worthy alternative. However, it remains anxiously silent around the discontinuation and continuation. No one wants to take ultimate responsibility. That is something we absolutely must avoid in a domain like this. It's crucial. It is about detecting terrorist threats and radicalisation on social media and websites. This is crucial for our security and I therefore call for a faster and more sustainable solution than is currently being proposed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic438x.u36	Debates of the European Parliament Mr De Vuyst's 55014616C was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic438x.u37	In the newspaper Le Soir of 24 February, Philippe Boucké, general in charge of the General Intelligence and Security Service (SGRS), states that "it is no secret to anyone that their ambition is to take long-term offensive measures in the area of cybersecurity". To date, however, it seems to me that the Intelligence Services Act - more specifically its Article 11, 2° - provides that "the mission of the SGRS is, in the context of cyber attacks on weapons systems, computer systems and military communications or those managed by the Minister of National Defence, to neutralize the attack and identify its perpetrators, without prejudice to the right to react immediately by means of a cyberattack, in accordance with the provisions of the law of armed conflict." It is therefore not offensive operations but only defensive operations. On the other hand, offensive operations are contrary to NATO doctrine. Minister, has Belgium planned to adapt its legislation to allow for such offensive measures? How would these measures be framed? Is it planned to adapt NATO doctrine in this context? Are there any discussions on this? Personally, are you in favour of such a change of strategy?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic438x.u38	Madam Secretary, digital is still a relatively new operational domain for our armed forces. During the discussion of the government statement, we discussed in detail whether there should be a new component. There was some disagreement about this, but I don't think anyone is questioning the need to invest in cyber capacity and in the necessary materials for our people in the Defense Department. As Mr Defossé has already said, it would be the intention to invest in the offensive capabilities. Such capabilities are becoming increasingly important, but do not always fit into the traditional mission framework with its traditional decision-making procedures. So I have a number of specific questions about the legal framework, the mandate, who takes the decisions there, what the role of Parliament is and what happens to this offensive way of working in peacetime. Can you shed some light on the new offensive capabilities that we will obtain through investment? When will they become operational? How will you guarantee sufficient freedom of action for Defence and at the same time provide a solid legal mandate? When can we expect a legal framework for this capacity? How do you see the authorisation process for offensive cyber operations and the necessary transparency with regard to Parliament and its involvement before starting military cyberspace operations? Is that a role that belongs to the Commission for the Succession of Foreign Shipments? At what level within the hierarchy will the decision be taken to proceed to a new operation? Will that be the Defense Department, the Secretary himself, or the government? How will Parliament be involved? How are offensive operations compatible with the constitutional provisions that indicate that the King only determines the state of war? Is there always a need for an international legal mandate for these operations? Finally, will Defense conduct independent offensive operations outside the EU or NATO?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic438x.u39	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the law on intelligence services only takes into account the protection mission assigned to the SGRS in case of cyberattack and, in this context, this service is in fact limited to cyber-reactive operations. The offensive operations referred to by the Chief of the SGRS fall within the broader scope of Defence operations. As with conventional military operations, it is legally up to the government to approve the commitment of defence assets. A possible future cyber operation that does not fall within the purely reactive framework of the Intelligence Services Act will therefore need to be approved by this level of authority. In this regard, the same process of parliamentary scrutiny will also apply. Therefore, Belgium does not need to adapt its legislation to allow cyber offensive operations. As I outlined in my policy note, I want to create a true cyber component based on the enhanced cyber capability of the SMS. In this context, a working group on legal aspects has been set up at the level of the Ministry of Defence to study the legal impact of the creation of a cyber component within the armed forces and possible improvements and clarifications that could be made to the legal framework. NATO (AJP)-3.20, Allied Joint Doctrine for Cyberspace Operations defines cyber offensive operations. This publication 3.20 describes the planning, execution and evaluation of cyber operations, including defensive and offensive operations. An offensive cyber capability is similar to the capabilities of the land, air and marine components. Like, for example, a fighter plane that can explore with sensors, is capable of deceiving air defense systems and launching bombs, an offensive cyber capability is also versatile. In summary, an offensive cyber capacity consists of the following sub-domains: means for digital exploration, the digital weapons themselves, vectors to bring those weapons to the digital target and, of course, command and control frameworks for the use of those weapons. Command and control shall take place from the planning, during the actions on the objective to the assessment of the task performed. The offensive cyber capacity will be gradually built up with annual investments in each sub-domain to increase the number of technologies, tactics and operations to be supported.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic438x.u40	Minister, thank you for your answers. I confess that I am a little dubious about the opportunity for our country to become a hacker state. I believe that we have obligations of exemplaryness and that these offensive actions have an extremely dangerous and difficult to control destabilizing capacity. We have seen the effects that this can have when Russia or other countries organize such attacks against our country. I am not sure that we can honorably accept that our country destabilizes in this way a competing country. After that, we must not be naive either. But I believe that the priority for us is to strongly strengthen our protection against computer attacks, and therefore the response to the attacks that we are experiencing. That is why we support the need for the creation of a high-quality cyber component, at the forefront in the field of computer security and defence. As for the attack, that's not really the idea we had. The component we will support is the defence component. We will remain vigilant in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic438x.u41	Madam Minister, thank you for the answer, but I think there is still a lot of work to be done. You are making it clear that the legal basis is indeed there with this legal framework, but I think it would be useful for Parliament to have a good legal explanation, to see how this will all work. From your reply, I would like to point out that you have taken the necessary initiatives within the Defence Staff and I look forward to the outcome of the work there. Moreover, it is not entirely clear to me how Parliament's involvement can be guaranteed. That will have to be made clear in the near future. Does the Committee I or the Commission follow-up of foreign shipments have a role to play in this? There is still a lot of work to be done, but when it comes to developing the capacity to act effectively on the defensive within Defense, so not reactive offensive, you will have an ally to look at further. I am certainly looking forward to continuing this dialogue with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic438x.u42	Madam Minister, as you know, the Sabca site in Gosselies has recently been awarded the maintenance contract for the F-16s of the US Air Force stationed on European soil. The contract includes programmed and unscheduled maintenance of aircraft, a life extension programme for aircraft accounting for between 8 000 and 12 000 hours of flight time, and technical assistance on F-16s at bases in Europe. The award of this five-year renewable contract rewards the expertise of the carolo site and its workers, acquired in particular through the maintenance of the F-16s of the Belgian and Dutch fleets. In addition to a turnover of more than EUR 250 million for the company, this contract mainly represents the creation of some 100 direct jobs in the Charleroi region and on bases throughout Europe, for ten years. It is therefore excellent news for the region's economic fabric, which represents an important and opportunity-rich pool of jobs. This also proves that the carolo aviation sector has not lost its superb, but on the contrary. Minister, what role does Defence play in negotiating and concluding contracts between Belgian companies and foreign armed forces? What relationships do you have with these companies? Furthermore, to what extent does Defence collaborate with the carolo aeronautical companies? In the context of the massive investment in human resources that Defence intends to implement throughout the legislature, particularly in the Charleroi region's employment area, should we not cooperate with these companies, for example in the training of defence technicians involved in aircraft maintenance?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic438x.u43	Mr Bayet, Defence does not play a direct role in negotiating and concluding contracts between Belgian companies and foreign armed forces. However, if a Belgian company has or has had a contractual relationship with the Defence, it sometimes asks the Defence to complete a questionnaire concerning the services performed under this contract. This questionnaire will then be attached by the company to its offer. Defence is also sometimes asked to confirm the availability of specific tools or certain capabilities and skills. In addition, the armed forces of a NATO country can use the defence services to carry out official quality monitoring in the execution of contracts between these armed forces and a Belgian company. Defence has long been working with an aviation company in the Charleroi region, the Sabca, with which it has entered into a contract for the maintenance of F-16 aircraft, A109 helicopters and some accessories of C-130 and Marchetti aircraft. In the past, Defence had entered into a contract with the Sonaca for the maintenance of the B-Hunter drones, but it was terminated as a result of the withdrawal of these aircraft. As part of the optimalization of formations, and in accordance with the General Policy Note, Defence is trying to develop partnerships with civilian and military associates, without any exception. For the time being, there is already cooperation with the Wallonia Aerotraining Network, based in Charleroi, and based on various partners such as Sonaca or SABCA. The Defence intends to send candidates for aviation technicians every year to receive training that meets the European Aviation Safety Agency standards. In the future, cooperation is also envisaged with the École Condorcet de Charleroi in order to train other types of aeronautical technicians: the non-commissioned technical candidates at level B. These two initiatives should partially meet the needs of aeronautical technician personnel at all levels required, as well as the evolution of aircraft maintenance, in addition to the aeronautical technicians from the Technical Training Department of the École Royale des NCOs de la Défense.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic438x.u44	Madam Minister, I thank you for this encouraging response, as well as for all the collaborative actions you are going to take with civil society. We can only rejoice in that. I congratulate you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic438x.u45	Debates of the European Parliament Mr De Vuyst's 55014821C is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic438x.u46	In the coming years, the new Belgian frigates and mine hunters are expected. They'll be too light-armed, but well, we've already talked about that. The current ships are being taken out of service. Several Belgian ships, such as some frigates from the Wheeling Class, and some CMTs still operate under a different flag, whether or not from partner countries. The Netherlands and France have already sold CMT-class mine hunters. Through the specialized press I learned that the Netherlands is already working very actively on the sale of the ships. As soon as the new vessels, which we are currently developing together, will be put into operation, the old CMTs will go out. It is already actively exploring how this will be addressed. It is not unlikely that those countries that already have a number of CMTs will be interested in newer, better maintained CMTs. An increased supply of CMTs on the international market is therefore to be expected. Has the Belgian Defense already set up a sales exercise? Is a specific team composed with the task of preparing the sale? What mandate does that team have? Which ships are eligible for sale?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic438x.u47	For the sale of mine hunters, the administration has had informal contacts with a number of countries and companies, such as Bulgaria, Greece and Latvia, but also the Naval Group. For the sale of the M-fregates different traces are currently being investigated, in binational consultation or national. Subject to some informal contacts, there are currently no concrete plans. No specific team has been set up for the sale at this time. The 5 mine hunters and the 2 M frigates are eligible for sale.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic438x.u48	Madam Minister, it is good that we are already actively considering how the ships can be sold. For example, fragmentation can be avoided. Some of the countries you list do indeed have CMTs. In Bulgaria, for example, our old Myosotis still sails around, under another name that now escapes me. It is therefore a good thing that this exercise was launched, but we need to speed up. We must avoid it, as I said in my introduction, but it must be stressed that we are the last country for the interested countries and that France and certainly the Netherlands have already offered their ships on better terms and deal. I will certainly continue to follow it very closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic438x.u49	Mrs. Hanus is no longer online to ask her question. As we have not heard from her, her question No. 55014878C. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Dallemagne's 55015122C is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic438x.u50	Madam Secretary, I would like to question you about our NATO mission in Iraq. Since 2018, the NATO mission has been helping the Iraqi security services to build up their military capabilities to deal with IS and other terrorist groups. NATO decided in February 2021 to extend that mission, at the request of Iraq itself, to include activities in areas outside Baghdad and to increase the number of troops from around 500 to around 4,000. You gave a statement here in committee on the NATO meeting on 17 and 18 February to welcome the extension of the mission in Iraq. Any Belgian contribution to the extended mission would be evaluated at a later date. Has a specific question already been asked by NATO for further participation in our country? If so, what is the answer of your government? If not, when does NATO expect a possible Belgian response to participate in the enhanced operation? What units and capabilities can Defense put forward that meet the expectations of an extensive NATO Mission in Iraq, NMI? Does the government refuse to participate in NMI against further participation in Afghanistan, Mali and Niger and any additional mission in the Sahel? Where do the coalition members in the EU and NATO feel that a Belgian contribution is most welcome?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic438x.u51	The operational needs for the NATO operation in Iraq were announced to Defence and are part of an internal assessment process. As the construction of a more extensive operation will take a longer time, not all needs are yet known in sufficient detail. NATO expects a response from the nations against the next force generation conference, scheduled for the end of the first semester. The defence staff will assess, on the basis of available resources, how and by what means Belgium can contribute to the operation. At present, possible contributions are included in the evaluation process by the staff of the NATO operation in Iraq or with mobile training teams, as in the past. Other capacities are also being investigated for possible contributions, but not all the details of the needs are known. Of course, factors such as the participation and deployment of resources in other operations will determine the capacities when available.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic438x.u52	Madam Minister, I remember that no decision has yet been taken and that everything is still being evaluated. I have already informed you of our position. A contribution can certainly be considered. Our F-16 operation will be completed in September. Security in Iraq, the Middle East and the Levant must remain an absolute priority in the fight against terrorism. We are looking at questions on the subject with the necessary goodwill.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic438x.u53	Madam Secretary, the countries of the G5 Sahel and France met in Ndjamena, the capital of Chad. Prior to the meeting, the French authorities referred to a possible withdrawal of Operation Barkhane. Making the Takuba Armed Forces operational could help to compensate for France's reduced military footprint and increase the involvement of European partners. But its construction is very slow and raises additional questions about its impact. Hence my questions. Was the government involved in any way in the discussion of the G5 as it has the ambition to be further involved in the Sahel? Operation Barkhane has never been so unpopular: a survey by the French opinion institute showed that 51% of the French population no longer supports military intervention in the Sahel, which is also a reason for partial withdrawal. What is the government's response to the reduction in French presence in the region? Does she think it's bad for our country's continued commitment? Will it plead for a further European fill-in of this gap? According to a press release accompanying the Prime Minister, Belgium will continue to study the deployment of liaison officers in the Takuba Task Force, but will not comment on any possible participation in Barkhane. Is the wider participation in Takuba, more than merely the deployment of liaison officers, also being studied? What are the possibilities here? Will Defence be involved in the broader Belgian mission described by the Prime Minister for the Sahel in relation to education, health, justice and reconciliation? Finally, the announced redeployment of the military stance in the Sahel frees funds for existing French cooperation areas in West African coastal countries. The head of the French foreign intelligence service Bernard Emié recently mentioned the risk of the expansion of the jihadist threat towards the Gulf of Guinea and the need for a French reorientation. Is Defense interested in following this French expansion, or is it holding on to the countries where it is now active? I propose that my question about Barkhane should be put to that effect immediately, in particular the question of what the plans for Barkhane are now. Because it's actually about the same subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic438x.u54	Mr Francken, I would like to put a question to you. However, I would like to point out that the Commission's proposal does not go far enough, since it is only at point 45 and the Minister responds to question No. 55014244C under point 6.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic438x.u55	Mr President, Mr Francken, Belgium took part in the enlarged Ndjamena Summit on 16 February 2021, the day after the G5-Sahel Summit, and was then represented by Prime Minister De Croo, who praised in particular the G5 Sahel Joint Forces' counter-terrorism operations with international support. Belgium recalled that it participates in these efforts with a global commitment that places emphasis on development, humanitarian aid, security and the rule of law. France has indicated, on the one hand, that it intends to refocus its commitment on operational-military partnership actions in order to stimulate the involvement of local actors in security issues. It also promotes the Europeanisation of military actions in favour of the G5 Sahel countries. Belgium will explore the possibilities to support that internationalisation of operational engagements. The evolution of the current Belgian defence obligations in the Sahel is currently under consideration. Several options are explored. Defence will first synchronise its commitments with regional actions, in particular through its participation in the PAWA Regional Coordination Centre, the Partnership for Actions in West Africa. Belgium will promote deployment options that concreteise the comprehensive approach. To this end, Defence is regularly in contact with other Belgian actors present in the Sahel, in particular with Development Cooperation. The coastal countries of West Africa have been partners in Belgian military cooperation for many years, in particular through projects in Benin, through support for several écoles nationales à vocation regionale and through the training of African soldiers from several nations in our training centres or on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic438x.u56	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. Okay, we'll definitely stay active in the Sahel region. I have no problem with that in itself, because the Sahel region is an important region, also geostrategic and geopolitical. You are convinced that we can also make additional commitments, because it is, of course, the intention to take further initiatives in the fields of education, health, justice and reconciliation as well. We will continue to follow that up from Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic438x.u57	Mr. Chair, Minister, we have learned that Defence has taken the decision to temporarily immobilize part of its F-16 fleet following an incident on February 11, when a F-16 from Florennes experienced engine problems on take-off. Parts were scattered on the base and potentially outside, fortunately not causing any casualties or material damage. Minister, can you give us the circumstances of this incident and the risks that may have been incurred by civilians and Defence personnel? Have the procedures been followed correctly? Is the pilot in good shape? What were the risks to his life? Is he receiving psychological support? How many F-16s are now grounded and for how long? Does this also concern the F-16s currently in operation? What are the implications of this immobilization for Defence? What are the precautions taken to control an aircraft prior to take-off? What are the potential responsibilities of the maintenance companies?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic438x.u58	Recently it was discovered that there were engine problems during the take-off of a fighter plane in Florennes on 11 February.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic438x.u59	Can you explain the incident? What exactly is it to blame? What actions and/or procedures were all carried out during and after the incident was identified? In the meantime, we have been able to find out how many aircraft were involved. Can you explain more about the interaction that has caused the problems between us and our international partners? What about the responsibility of the maintenance company, manufacturer or aircraft manufacturer? Behind closed doors we were already explained the consequences for the deployment of our F-16s in the framework of Operation Inherent Resolve. However, there is no harm in including them within the lines of this public hearing. Has this affected the training assignments in the interior? How does the DOD assess the direct and indirect budgetary impact?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic438x.u60	Mr. Chair, Madam Minister, I come directly to the heart of the matter as it is known that the F-16, which was the subject of engine problems on take-off, including the burning of a nozzle. The engine of this aircraft was dismantled and sent to the maintenance company which, following the control of the parts, indicated that many engines had similar phenomena, which is quite worrying. Minister, what can you tell us about this incident? Have these technical problems resulted in additional costs? If so, what amount is the issue? More generally, I was surprised to find that this incident was not released until one month after the incident occurred. Is this a part of the procedure?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic438x.u61	Madam Minister, many interesting questions have already been asked, and I agree. I understand that the problem would have been solved by now, but I would like to hear what caused it. Apparently we were unique in this too and that was a typical Belgian problem. What has been the cost of all this engine problem? What have the consequences for our airspace monitoring been? How did the cooperation with the Netherlands go? How can we prevent such problems from occurring in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic438x.u62	Mr President, on February 11, a F-16 from Florennes experienced engine problems on take-off. As prescribed in the manufacturer's procedure, the pilot has safely grounded the aircraft with a precautionary landing. Each military pilot is regularly trained to manage situations that require such a precautionary landing, thereby limiting risks to personnel and equipment. The incident was the subject of a press release the following day via the Defence website as well as other media channels. It turned out that the F-16 was confronted with a tuyère burn. This is a phenomenon in which a break in material causes, because of the high temperature, the melting of a number of parts which can be detached. A flight safety investigation shall be conducted systematically after each incident involving an aeroplane, whether directly or indirectly. During the investigation one stumbled upon a problem with a hinge pin. This pin is part of a movable collar on the exhaust that is controlled according to the engine regime. As a result, Defence did not wish to take any unnecessary risks and took the decision to temporarily immobilize part of its F-16 fleet. Approximately 90% of the engine modules are affected to a greater or lesser extent. Defence is making every effort to resolve the problem as quickly, transparently and safely as possible. The exact cause of the 11 February incident is not yet fully known and is being examined very extensively in consultation with all interested parties. That could take a few months. In addition, the partners of the EPAF, the European Participating Air Forces, have been contacted. The EPAF consists of the European Air Forces which have the F-16 Mid-Life Update in use in the framework of a cooperation agreement. Following contacts with these countries, it has been found that they have different exhaust configurations and do not face the same problems. Intact and repaired modules shall be installed on devices according to operational priorities as soon as possible, in order to maximise operational deployment. The continuity of the Quick Reaction Alert for the Benelux airspace has been guaranteed. As soon as it was possible for our Dutch partner, the task was temporarily taken over by the Dutch Air Force, so that the necessary priority could be given to the continuation of the operation Inherent Resolve, in which our country from Jordan participates with four F-16s. This proves that there is already a very intense cooperation with the Netherlands in the field of air defence. Eventually, our planes in Jordan have been on the ground for one week, but they have been flying again since 14 March. After further repairs to the engines in our units, the Quick Reaction Alert was insured by our country as of Friday 19 March and the regular training program was gradually resumed. The cost of reconditioning the engine modules will be covered by the budget for the commissioning of the F-16. The total cost of repairs is estimated at about €5.7 million.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic438x.u63	Minister, thank you for your answers. I am pleased to learn that this incident did not cause any damage and that the pilot is apparently in good health. I believe that this kind of event is not annoyance to live with, even for someone very well trained and prepared. I hear today that we are still looking for the cause, but that this temporary suspension has not had a serious effect on our participation in operations in Iraq and that cooperation with the Netherlands has been effective. That's reassuring. Thank you for that clarification. Finally, I believe that these events must question us. I do not understand how such an incident could have happened, and that it has not happened anywhere else in the world. You tell us that the Belgian engine is not the same as the other F-16 engines, so it is only in Belgium that this situation is encountered. Or I didn't understand your answer. Anyway, thank you for that information.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic438x.u64	Madam Minister, I understand from your reply that communication has already gone fast and well. This is very important, I believe, also in view of our international partners and our operational commitment abroad. The fact that the continuity of the Quick Reaction Alert could be guaranteed by our Dutch partner is also positive. As far as cost is concerned, you say that direct and indirect costs amount to EUR 5.7 million. Unless I am mistaken, however, I have missed your answer to my fourth question about the responsibility of the maintenance company, the manufacturer, or the aircraft manufacturer. I have heard from the media that Pratt & Whitney, Lockheed Martin and the United States have acknowledged that there were problems and have therefore taken immediate corrective actions for the engines concerned. Their responsibility cannot be denied. I therefore ask you who will pay the costs. Is that Defense, directly, or can we recover those costs from any of the parties involved?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic438x.u65	First of all, thank you very much, minister. I apologize, I must have been misinformed. I hear that everything has been done perfectly with regard to the origins and the explanation of the origins of the problem on one of the F-16s. I understand the reaction that was to see the other aircraft in the F-16 fleet that could have experienced the same security concerns. I hear that as far as Operation Inherent Resolve is concerned, we have been able to count on our cooperation with the Netherlands; this is obviously a welcome development. The question of damage and cost remains. This is still a certain cost, and you will agree with me, Madam Minister. How will it be passed on? Do we still have the possibility to recover money as part of certain assurances we have from the manufacturer of these F-16s regarding the problems that have arisen? This question is still pending, but I thank you very much for the rest of this very comprehensive answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic438x.u66	Madam Minister, I have not heard it in full, but I assume that this EUR 5.7 million should be used for a final solution to the problem and that it is not about the better patch-up. I therefore assume that a final solution has been found. Secondly, we have good cooperation with the Netherlands, which has once again worked optimally here. We must therefore continue to work on this. Finally, unfortunately, this will probably not be the last similar problem with the F-16s. These problems show that the previous government's decision in 2018 was indeed in place. After all, there was an urgent need to find a replacement for the F-16 which has gradually come to the end of its lifespan. The F-35s should therefore be allowed to join, because the replacement programme is really essential if we are to continue to carry out our tasks in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic438x.u67	Madam Secretary, you often say that defence is a reflection of society. One of the consequences of this is that the less attractive aspects of that society are also reflected in the defense. A recent study of 2019 in female military women shows that they regularly experience unwanted sexual behavior at work (OSGW). A number of results from the situation are striking. For example, two thirds of female soldiers face OSGW during their career, whether physically or not. In addition, the study shows that one third of women suffer from reduced mental well-being due to OSGW. The fact that this also has an impact on professional functioning makes sense. It is unheard of that the figures are probably even higher in reality. Indeed, the willingness to report is very low. This would be mainly due to misconception, fear of the consequences and disinformation. There would be a taboo rule, as it were. With the new awareness campaign Respect, we hope that some of the disinformation will be eliminated. However, the data clearly show that the current prevention policy is inadequate and that victims and other stakeholders are not making any sense. What does the current prevention policy on OSGW mean in concrete terms? How will staff be informed about the policy? Can you give a numerical overview of the number of notifications per year over the last 5 years? A master's test on the problem was already published in 2016. Figures that emerged in this report could have given rise to action even then. Can you explain why there was no response at the time? How do you respond to the fact that the reporting capacity is very low at the moment and that the figures are probably even higher in reality? How do you estimate the accessibility of the green number proposed as a threshold-lowering reporting point? Do you think psychosocial services are currently sufficiently manned, or is there any thought of extra manpower? How do you evaluate the communication between the Justice Department and the Defense Department regarding the criminal footprints of the problem? How is a victim of an ongoing case protected from misunderstanding, reprisals and a possible confrontation with the offender? Finally, what steps will you take to reverse the tide?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic438x.u68	Minister, in our discussion of your policy note, I spoke with you about the need to combat gender-based violence and sexual harassment in the Defence. First, because such violence has no place anywhere and must be pursued with the greatest severity, and second, because we cannot hope to increase the number of women in the Defence without sanitizing the working environment to make it a secure space for women. In mid-March, you announced that an investigation had been opened within the Defence following many sexist comments on social media by Defence members on the four new female recruits in the Special Forces. Most women who are victims of sexism seem to remain silent for fear of reprisals, of losing their jobs or of being held back in their career progression. This is obviously unacceptable. What measures are in place to actively combat gender culture in Defence? Has the Defence provided for in-house training on gender discrimination in order to raise awareness among key stakeholders - men - of the structural problem of sexism, and not just training for managers? Is there any more thought in this regard than just an internal investigation? Are you planning an intersectional approach to what gender discrimination represents in your Defence recruitment plan? What sanctions do moral and sexist harassers face? What commitments do you make today for women already present or to come in Defence?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic438x.u69	Madam Secretary, in order to ensure that we have an army of 25,000 soldiers in the future, everyone is needed, and so it is fine that more and more women would choose a job in the Defense Department. I can imagine, let us not forget that this was not always evident in the past in an organisation like the army. However, recent study results are also disappointing. In 2021, integration appears to be far from satisfactory and there are many complaints. I think it is good that Admiral Hofman has given a clear signal on the matter that this really needs to be done. He referred to a helpline, which needs more attention. Six months ago, following the story of the paracommands in Marche-les-Ladies, the inspector-general recommended that we use buses because the trusted people's system is not working properly. In any case, that needs to be looked at again, because the helpline has not solved the problems. How do you think the case is best handled? Isn't it better if we get it right for the whole army at once? Could you also give us some more information on the recruitment campaign specifically aimed at women?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic438x.u70	Defence has twelve prevention advisors on psychosocial aspects at work, eight full-time trusted persons and a network of 96 trusted persons in combination. They are all used to control the psychosocial risks of violence, harassment and unwanted sexual behaviour at work, as imposed by the law on welfare. Sexually inappropriate behaviours at work are explicitly part of the awareness of psychosocial risks at work. This awareness is introduced from the beginning of the career and repeated at different stages of the career. In addition, these behaviours are also automatically taken into account in psycho-social risk analyses in certain work situations. In addition to the internal defence guidelines, leaflets are available to all staff on the various psychosocial risks at work, including these behaviours. The various psychosocial actors are also mentioned in the various leaflets for the reception of the units. Awareness is done independently of gender, in order to avoid combating sexually inappropriate behaviours at work by stigmatizing part of the Defence population. The Defence does not discriminate on the basis of gender in its recruitment. All Defence functions are open to everyone, and Defence points out in all its communications that vacancies are open to both men and women without distinction. The management of psychosocial risks, of which unwanted sexual behaviour at work (OSGW), violence of power and harassment are part, is, as laid down by the legislator, maintained by the attendance advisor psychosocial aspects. There have been 56 reports since 2016. The 2016 study cited had a broader theme than just OSGW. The survey was conducted under the impetus of the then staff department of Well-being, the current General Directorate of Health and Well-being. A campaign aimed at addressing the issue of OSGW, independent of gender, started on 10 March 2021. It is, of course, supported by myself, the defense staff and the hierarchical echelons. The criminal part is outside the competence of the Defense Department, in accordance with the principle of the separation of powers. The Department of Defense is subject to the welfare bill. The legislator has entered in the Welfare Act the necessary measures to protect the identity of a victim of violence, harassment or OSGW. A helpline does not serve to prevent complaints, but rather facilitates the submission of a complaint by lowering the threshold. Regular awareness of the existence of the helpline may enhance the threshold lowering effect. At present, the green number is manned by psychosocial actors. The psychosocial actors are independent of the hierarchical line and act in accordance with the Welfare Act. A reporting point outside of Defence to emphasize independence is not mentioned, as the current reporting point is already intrinsically independent.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic438x.u71	Madam Minister, thank you for the answer, even though you have not answered all my questions. This continues to call for the necessary attention, despite the fact that initiatives are being taken, especially now with the new awareness campaign. In the 2016 master's trial, which was indeed broader than just the mentioned theme and a direct survey, 3,6 % sexual assault with physical violence and 1,2 % rape, a total of 4.8 % were reported. The 2019 study, which was an indirect survey and for which the threshold for truthful answers is somewhat lower, refers to 9% sexual assault with physical violence. Such a figure at least makes the eyebrows frown and requires additional attention. In addition to sensitisation, we must also pay due attention to good communication between Justice and Defence. You say that the legal approach, according to the separation of powers, takes place outside the Ministry of Defence. That is true, but communication in this area must also be made with the necessary transparency. The victim must be given the feeling that he or she is not only concerned with women being protected from reprisals, misunderstandings and confrontation with the offender. I think that's really a focus in the whole story. I also had a question about the accessibility of the green number. You have indicated how many people are available for this. You did not say whether you considered that sufficient. Or maybe you gave it to me implicitly, since you didn't mention the need for additional manpower. I don't think you should minimize the problem. We must not overdramatize either, but the problem certainly requires due attention in your general defence policy. I have also requested the figures from all other public services to see how Defence generally relates to the other services. I think that will shed some light on the whole problem. I'm sure I'll keep following up on the file.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic438x.u72	Minister, thank you for these answers. My group but also many women in the army rely on you in this fight against sexism. Nowhere can it be tolerated for a woman to be demeaned, humiliated or abused because of her gender. An army that wants to be open and modern can only accept within it, sexism thrives. I think we need to put the means to ensure that this culture disappears as quickly as possible and that all women feel physically and morally secure in the army. By the way, I don't think it's stigmatizing part of the Defence population to say that sexism is the fact that most of all men do so almost exclusively and that it is towards them that we must concentrate our efforts. If this is to go through awareness, let's do awareness! If this has to go through training, let's organise training! If this is to be done through sanctions, let us take sanctions! Let us not hesitate to involve civil society organisations that are fighting on a daily basis against this gender-based violence and patriarchal culture! Madam Minister, at any rate, be assured that you will find in us, whether in your action in Defence or in this commission, allies on this subject!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic438x.u73	Twelve psychosocial workers and almost a hundred confidants, that's a big deal. However, the results are not really fantastic. Of course, I'm interested in that reporting point. It's a good thing it's there, but I can't possibly estimate whether that's working properly today. Are people who have focused on this, after all, satisfied with the way in which it has worked or not? For me, it is very important that an employee of the Defense Department has the assurance that he can go there, if something goes wrong somewhere, and that it does so in a good way. That's incredibly important, especially in a strictly hierarchical organization, like the Defense Department is. Today it's about sexism, but the problem is, of course, bigger. I will pay a great deal of attention to this in the coming period, because that is very important for that organisation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic438x.u74	Madam Secretary, the Navy component communicated on the further expansion of its activities in Ostend, the Navy Academy. I believe that these are very good and promising plans. That is why I fully support it. Right now, the CCMAR, the competence center, is located in Bruges, my hometown. Bruges is also an important training centre, besides of course Ostend and Den Helder. In the communication it was mentioned that the chefs training would move to Ostend in 2025 and that the other courses would follow by 2028 at the latest. This means that the main activities that are now taking place in the CCMAR in Bruges will disappear, with horizon 2025-2028. I don't know if you've already been there, Madam Secretary, probably not. This is a relatively large quarter of an hour, which would be used in the future for only a limited number of activities. I am thinking of social services and, in my opinion, the poorly localized information centre there. Madam Minister, can you confirm my reading that this is likely to be a very minor activity for such a very large quarter of an hour? What does Defense plan to do there from horizon 2025-2028 after the activities will have moved from the CCMAR to Ostend?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic438x.u75	The Navy reorganises its training structure into an integrated Navy Academy. A study is currently under way to reorient the services of the Navy's competence centre in Bruges during the period 2021-2028 to the quarter of Boatsman Jonsen in Ostend for the training courses and to the Navy base at Zeebrugge for the territorial service support. If it is decided to leave the quarter of Victor Billet, the future destination of this quarter will have to be determined.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic438x.u76	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I note that, in the communication of the Navy, of Defence in general or perhaps of the press, there has apparently been some speed, because this has been proposed as a failure accompli, as if it were decided that in the period 2025-2028 the CCMAR would depart from Saint-Kruis-Brugge. I hear it's a study now. You will understand that I will continue this study with a great deal of interest.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic438x.u77	Mr President, Minister, according to the current President of the European Council - Portugal - the EU should consider a military training mission to Mozambique to fight against Islamic terrorists, since the development and humanitarian aid that the EU is currently offering would be inadequate. Your Portuguese colleague Cravinho proposed a mission similar to training missions in other African countries such as Mali, Somalia and the Central African Republic. The idea has not yet been discussed at political level, but is already being developed by the EEAS at technical level and will be presented at an informal meeting of EU Defence Ministers on 28 May. Meanwhile, Portugal will already support Mozambique bilaterally in its fight against jihadis in North Mozambique. Madam Secretary, I have the following questions. Will you wait for the European consultation to come into contact with President Portugal in advance on the mission? Do you see any contribution to such a training mission fit within the capabilities of the Defense Department? Can we add value after a similar mission in Mali? France is looking for European partners for its sphere of influence in the Sahel. Now Portugal wants the same support from the Member States for its former colony. How do you weigh the question of the Portuguese against that of the French? Are they equally relevant to you and should a balance be maintained in European efforts on the African continent or do you have a clear hierarchy of European interests in Africa?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic438x.u78	Mr President, Mr Francken, the evolution of the security situation in Mozambique is indeed worrying. From a European perspective, an initial analysis of the situation was made, in particular the Political Framework for Crisis Approach. On this basis, the opportunity and feasibility of any EU support, in whatever form, will be further discussed. If EU Member States decide to proceed to a training mission in Mozambique, the possible contribution of Belgian Defence will be analysed on the basis of available resources and geographical priorities. Defence is therefore awaiting further information before a decision will be taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic438x.u79	Mr President, Minister, I am very concerned about the situation in Mozambique. All over Africa, we see that IS and the radical Sunni terrorists are making a real start. It is not only in the Gulf of Guinea; it is not only in the Sahel; it is not only in the Horn of Africa. It's deeper down now, too. Not only in Congo but also in Mozambique, the situation is now becoming very unstable, with a city that has been occupied. That was a shocking message. I must confess I wasn't very familiar with the situation there. However, I have read a bit about it, as probably everyone in the committee has. Now, apparently, ISIS is all the way to Mozambique. So the situation in Africa is going the wrong way. I am very concerned about that. I'm sure you'll do the same. We will follow closely whether we should also operate in the military.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic438x.u80	Mr President, first of all on the budgetary framework of the POP plan. Madam Minister, at the committee on 10 March, I clearly asked you, like a number of colleagues, what would be the budgetary impact of the roll-out of the POP plan, your ambitious plan to improve the status of defence personnel. You replied as follows: 'All this will take place within the current budgetary trajectory, with or without redeployments, without compromising budgetary coherence'. I have the following questions about this. What is the exact total cost of the plan, given that negotiations with the trade unions are still ongoing, including the exact equivalence with the remuneration of the police? Is this amount a provisional estimate or rather a ceiling set by the Minister to remain within the current budgetary framework? What is the precise margin that Defense will have within its personnel envelope over the next few years to improve the status of its military? Where would the Minister possibly rearrange within the budget in order to achieve the POP plan? I would like some budgetary clarification on this issue, because it concerns a great deal of money. Mr President, let me now turn to my other question. On Friday 26 March 2021, you reached an agreement with the trade unions on the new basic tables of the military betting. They would pursue the long-announced alignment with the wages of the police. The agreement, with the agreement of your colleague in the budget and the Finance Inspector, would be poured into an RB after the Easter holiday. My questions are as follows. Can the Minister also provide the tables to the committee for full transparency? For which personnel categories of Defense will there be an adjustment in the baremas? Does this apply to all members of the active framework, including senior officers? What are the objectives of equal pay in occupational categories or age categories? What are the objectives of equalisation: annual wages, seniority, start-up wages, additional allowances, or an equalization of the total accumulated earnings? What is the concrete budgetary impact of this decision and is it realised within the staff envelope? If not, where is it being pushed?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic438x.u81	Mr President, Mr Francken, the aim of the review is to make military wagers more competitive on the labour market, especially with regard to other employers in the security sector. A competitive wager compared to what is offered by a public employer, such as the police, is an essential basic element in improving the attractiveness of the careers in the Defense Department. The agreement with the representative trade unions of 26 March deals with the principles to be applied in this revision. There was an opt-out for a alignment between the different personnel sub-categories in the Defense Department and the police. The alignment will take place for all staff, both the asset and the reserve framework. Several parameters will be taken into account in the alignment of betting: seniority, total wage mass during an average career, maximum final wager, tension between the different categories of staff and degrees, as well as the strengthening of the attraction of external and internal recruitment, career path and reduction of attrition throughout the career, especially for the military between 30 and 45 years. The various betting tables are further developed to prepare the next steps in the procedure. The planned bet revision will be achieved progressively. As part of the increase in the attractiveness of the military profession, funds were provided for in the Defence budget and the multiannual estimates. Priorities will have to be set for the further concrete development of the Bet Review, with possible internal compensation within the Defence budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic438x.u82	Madam Minister, I did not receive the answer to the second question, although these questions were merged by the President.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic438x.u83	Mr President, my answer was comprehensive.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic438x.u84	Madam Secretary, I find that a strange way of working. We are trying to carry out our legislative work properly and our supervisory role vis-à-vis the government. Over and over again I ask, there was the whole affair about the report on the C-130, which is ultimately concerned in a very bizarre way............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... However, I am not getting an answer to that. Once again, you say that additional budgetary resources are provided in the framework of the multiannual plan for staff, however, you do not say how much staff and that if they are not sufficient, they will be rearranged internally. I would like to know how much extra resources are provided and what you will rearrange, because if you give anything, you will have to take something elsewhere. I keep asking. It is my job as a Member of Parliament to check whether that plan has been calculated in budgetary terms. You are making great promises: you are signing agreements with the trade unions on staff planning, there are hurrays on all the banks and oh woe to the Members of Parliament who dare to criticise the fact that wages are finally being brought into line with those of the police. By the way, you have already done so with the barracks: EUR 100 million would go from the European Green Deal to the barracks, but that did not work. In the end, this project was not on the list and a communication was made by the cabinet that it would be financed by its own resources and that we would be EUR 30 billion in red. Apparently, it just can't go on. One way or another, you've found money, and it just keeps coming. One has to shake on that incredible money tree and the money keeps dropping. However, I do not believe that at all. I have a little too much administrative experience and I know it just doesn't work that way, but I'm not getting any answers. So I will re-table my questions, as with the C-130. We'll just retable them until we're clear. I hope that Parliament will be entitled to budgetary clarification on the POP plan, Mr President. What is the cost and how will it be financed? After all, the defence staff have no message of many big and empty promises about the tie-up with police wages, without any concrete link to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic438x.u85	Madam Minister, Minister of Justice Vincent Van Quickenborne stated that he would send a Belgian team to the Syrian ISIS prison camps to strengthen our information position there and later to return the children to twelve years of age and the mothers, who would be "case-by-case." According to the minister, the government is preparing. I always listen very carefully when it comes to the repatriation of IS children and their mothers fighting for IS. After all, this is a controversial issue and is a particularly dangerous operation. When Mr Reynders was responsible for the repatriations, he already communicated at the time when the Defense was still in the process of repatriation. Even before Melsbroek landed safely, communication was in the air and everyone knew what was going on. I found that particularly dangerous and dangerous. What is the contribution of Defense to the team that the government wishes to send to Northern Syria? Will the representatives of the government who visit the camp to select the young people get protection from the defense? If so, how big will the escort be? How much are the costs of such visits? Which rules or commitments apply to the escorts, as the safety situation in the camp is considered particularly unsafe? Which repatriations will be carried out by the Defense Department and when? How many kids are we talking about this time? How many flights do they take? How will they be selected? Is the DOD involved in any way in the screening? What would be the cost to the Defense Department if a plane were to be deployed and if soldiers were to accompany the repatriations? How many soldiers are so claimed per repatriation? How is their safety risk assessed?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic438x.u86	In the case of substantive decisions, it is best to refer the matter to the relevant departments. Defense is just an operational support partner in this case. Defence's contribution to the team that the government wants to send to Northern Syria is currently open for consultation and study. This is done in close cooperation with the federal administrations involved, such as the FPS Foreign Affairs. The safety level of the operation does not allow to describe operational implementation details. The details of a possible visit to a camp, if such a visit by the Belgian team would prove necessary, and the need for an escort are currently being analysed. Local authorities also play a decisive role in this. A possible escort, the related costs and the necessary rules of engagement can only be delineated afterwards. Repatriation remains a competence of the FPS Foreign Affairs and Defence may at most assist consular missions in support of this department. The determination of who is entitled to repatriation and the prior screening, selection and identification of the repatriates does not fall within the competence of the Defence Department. If planning indicates that the deployment of a military aircraft is the most appropriate option for repatriation to Belgium, the costs and possible need for guidance will be determined on the basis of the profile and the associated security risk. As with any operation, in its planning and implementation, Defence aims to reduce and mitigate the security risks to its personnel to an acceptable level.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic438x.u87	Madam Minister, I understand, of course, that this is a government decision, and that defence can only provide support if it is effectively necessary and decided upon. However, your political formation is part of the government, and that is what it has decided. So as Minister of Defense you might as well have said that you totally disagree with that because it is far too dangerous. That has been our position for years. We have not done these repatriations for a long time, but now that has changed, people are opting for it now. You also say that the level of security does not allow us to share details. I understand that, of course, and I have every respect for that; we will be able to look at this in other committees. However, I would like to make it very clear that our group considers this irresponsible and absolutely does not support the active repatriation of the people from those North-Syrian camps. It is far too dangerous, because if something were to go wrong there would have a very big problem. The government takes a very heavy responsibility for this. It can go wrong not only during repatriation itself but also when those people are back on our territory and are planning and committing attacks here again. The responsibility will then be crushing and we will put them where she belongs, especially with the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic438x.u88	Mr President, Madam Minister, at the end of February, the head of the General Intelligence and Security Service (SGRS) explained in the newspaper Le Soir that some 30 soldiers were being closely followed for their sympathy or obvious ties with extreme right-wing groups. This is obviously very worrying. We are apparently not yet at the point of our French neighbours, where a neo-Nazi sector within the Defense has just been discovered and revealed by Mediapart. Nevertheless, we must be extremely vigilant on this matter. Minister, are you regularly made aware of the evolution of these surveillances and the number of members monitored? What are the penalties for racist or xenophobic behaviour on the part of a military member? Have any complaints been filed internally in this regard? Have complaints from citizens against military personnel for racism been filed in recent years? Is there control in the selection and engagement of military personnel to avoid recruiting personnel whose values are incompatible with our rule of law?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic438x.u89	Mr President, I refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic438x.u90	Mr President, the SGRS shall immediately inform the competent authorities when cases or major events are detected. The figure of some 30 military personnel followed by the SGRS for alleged links to right-wing extremism should be interpreted with caution, as it includes all persons followed, i.e., documented cases, but also persons who are still only suspected and for whom the investigation could conclude that there is no form of extremism or radicalization. Racism and xenophobia are contrary to military values. In addition, they may constitute a criminal offence. They are therefore not admitted for a member and he/she may be punished for such acts. Possible sanctions depend on many factors such as the facts and the exact circumstances, such as whether the act is committed on duty or not, the member's record or his or her category of personnel. In all cases, if the authority considers that the act committed is contrary to what may be expected of any member, the member may be punished by a statutory measure such as salary restraint or dismissal. In general, complaints submitted to the Complaints Management Service deal with displaced statements of a racist nature on social networks. Since 2016, 29 complaints have been received. With regard to defence personnel, the file is transferred directly to the military judicial detachment and the Intelligence Service is informed of this. The unit of the member concerned is also called upon to remind the member of the rights and duties of the member and to inform him that the judicial detachment has been seized and that these facts may lead to a conviction by the court. As regards the new recruits, in addition to the systematic security verification provided for in the Act of 28 February 2007 establishing the military status, there is also a screening to determine whether an applicant complies with the standards and values of the organisation. Any statements, distinguishing signs and/or extremist behavior may be detected at different levels of the selection procedure, i.e. during the examination of ACOS IS, through an extract from the criminal record, from a standardised CV, the personality tests or the selection interview. As soon as one of these aspects is demonstrated, the candidate shall be excluded from the selection procedure. Finally, our platform for non-religious extremism works closely with the Security of the State. The ADIV focuses mainly on extremism within the Defense Department.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic438x.u91	Mr President, Madam Minister, I confess that I am concerned, although I am reassured that the matter is being followed with a concern for firmness. Nevertheless, it must be noted that there are elements within the army that do not share our values at all, that hold racist and hate speech, and that are, in any case, trained and armed in part of them. This means that in Belgium there are private right-wing militias in the Schild & Vrienden genre, but also professional soldiers belonging to this movement. Of course and fortunately, there are only about thirty elements, which, as you have said, must be relativized. This figure therefore seems to be quite small. However, these elements are dangerous enough to have attracted the attention of the intelligence services. Madam Minister, what about possible military forces that have not yet been identified and the possible propaganda that could be carried out in our barracks, leading a number of elements to adhere to these nasty ideas? The greatest attention must be paid to that risk in order to ensure security and democracy in our country. Every racist act, every hate speech must be passed on to the top of the hierarchy and sanctions must be taken as soon as the law is violated. We must also be careful when hiring. In fact, 10,000 people will have to be hired in the coming years. We must do everything we can to avoid the so-called rotten apples, knowing that they will have to be trained and armed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic438x.u92	Mr President, Minister, I assume that if people are followed with extreme ideas, those ideas are very far-reaching and can only have an impact on their work and on how they behave towards others. So it's a good thing this is happening. When it comes to extreme ideas, for me it's not just about extreme right-wing but about all forms of extreme behavior. It is striking that this is about older soldiers. You have now given a little more explanation and said that there is special attention to this in the recruitment process. I like that. Of course, we must be vigilant at all times.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic438x.u93	Debates of the European Parliament 55014878C by Mrs Hanus will be converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Creyelman's 55015557C was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic438x.u94	Madam Minister, two weeks ago on the Veterans' Day we commemorated the ten Belgian parasites that were murdered in Kigali in 1994. I have some questions about the Veterans' Day, Madam Secretary. I will not ask any more about the 2021 edition in full covid time, which is now behind us, but I would like to ask you if our committee can be involved in the 2022 edition. In what way can more listen to the Veterans' Day be given, in addition to a number of posts on social media and a ceremony at the Congress column? Can the WHI be involved in this? I think that is one of his core tasks. Is there consultation with the Länder, for example on education? We have already discussed this with many colleagues. Education plays an important role in the commemoration. This is, of course, a sub-State competence, but are synergies possible? What good foreign examples can be followed? We also need to think about the future of defence, linking it with the enormous recruitment efforts that are currently being made there. I would have liked to have had an update on the revision of the Veteran Statute in our country, to which you also referred in your policy paper. Can you give me more information on that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic438x.u95	Each year, since 1998, Defence has organized a ceremony at the grave of the unknown soldier, in the presence of numerous civilian and military authorities and a delegation of relatives of soldiers killed since 1945. In consultation with the Military House of the King, a short ceremony at the grave of the unknown soldier was organised on 7 April 2021, taking into account the covid restrictions. The representative of the King, the Chief of Defense, the National Chairman of the Servio and myself participated in this. After reading the 252 names of the soldiers killed for peace since 1945, a flower wreath was laid down by the King's representative on the grave of the unknown soldier. The Te Velde was blown. The eternal flame was ignited and the Last Post was blown. The small and subdued ceremony was ended with the national anthem. The total duration was not more than 20 minutes. The Veterans' Day will be given more attention, by paying more attention to it in the media and in education. The War Heritage Institute, the WHI, was represented at the ceremony by its Director-General. The WHI organises theme days on the occasion of birthdays around the murder of ten Belgian para's in Kigali on 7 April 1994. For example, several memory trips to Kigali were organized by the WHI. There is no consultation with the Länder. The WHI is the privileged partner to walk that slope. No foreign examples are being investigated. Since the commemoration during the Veterans' Day is mainly about the 252 killed since 1945, who have given their lives for the sake of peace, there is no intention to bring the recruitment of soldiers to the attention of the Veterans' Day. The political orientation paper and the Defence business plan provide for the development of a veteran's policy and the establishment of a veteran's statute in the course of 2022.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic438x.u96	Madam Minister, I note that next year we will have more news on the reform of the veteran statute, which is generally expected. It is very positive that you are so specific about this. You have given me, in detail, a summary of the Veterans Day edition 2021, which is very good. It was a small ceremony, which makes sense because of the sanitary conditions. It can only get better. After the covid crisis, that memorial ceremony needs to get better and bigger. I am very pleased with your view that the WHI can play a role in this. We have been to Kigali and I believe that the WHI can take even more of the lead on the Veterans' Day. I believe that we really need to see the Veterans' Day as a national holiday, a national day of remembrance, in which we honour not only the deceased soldiers, but also everyone who has entered the service for peace and stability in our country and our allies.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic438x.u97	Minister, in 2016, the Belgian government sold 50 M113 tanks to the Indonesian government. Last January, you told me about the management of former Defence equipment: "Brands are placed to avoid losing track of the equipment sold and that before the execution phase of the contract for the sale of military equipment, Defence always adheres strictly to the applicable national and international rules relating to the end-user certificate: authorization to transfer to a third party and export licence, in cooperation with, among other things, the competent authorities of the country of origin of the equipment sold, the SPF Economy and the SPF Foreign Affairs. If the buyer does not meet these three conditions, the contract is terminated and the equipment will not be transferred." I have been alerted by vigilant members of civil society because today it seems that these M113 tanks - or in any case, Indonesian M113 tanks - are being sent to Papua Province to severely suppress the separatist movement. However, the Indonesian army has been accused for years of serious abuses against civilians. Whole villages were massacred because they were accused of being in favour of the separatists. It cannot therefore be ruled out that armoured vehicles that we have sold to Indonesia are currently used to commit crimes against civilians. Minister, did this sale meet all the national and international rules? How is it possible that we were able to sell arms to an army accused of committing abuses against civilians? Have any other such cases been reported in recent years? What is your position on this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic438x.u98	My colleague, Belgium has not sold M113 armoured personnel carriers to Indonesia. The M113-B, formerly used by Belgian Defense, were sold either to other states such as Benin, Jordan, Lebanon, Morocco, Uruguay, or to specialized companies: Flanders Technical Supplies, Sabiex International, or as scrap for recycling. These sales were made in accordance with the national and international rules in force. The sale of M113-B to Indonesia to which you refer, i.e. 50 vehicles in 2016, was made by one of the companies mentioned above. The granting of licences for the export of arms by a private company is the responsibility of the Regions and not of the Defence.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic438x.u99	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. That sheds much more light on the matter. I will certainly pass it on to my colleagues working on arms sales at the regional level.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-20-definitief-55-commissie-ic438x.u100	Colleagues, it's almost 12:55. At 1 p.m., the next meeting of the Foreign Missions Committee will start. In order to give the President the opportunity to start the sitting there in time, I suggest that we conclude the sitting here. The questioning session will continue next week. We've gone a long way anyway. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your presence and contribution. Madam Secretary, thank you for the answers. We'll see each other tomorrow.
