ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic341x.u1	Madam President, Minister, as you know, the situation of the self-employed is particularly critical in this time of crisis of the Covid-19, which has led to several confinements. I am thinking in particular of the sectors which have remained closed for the longest time and which are still closed: the Horeca, the event, the world of culture. They are men and women who see their life plan collapse and who can even turn into a certain precariousness and real distress. A lot of initiatives have therefore yet to be taken. I would like to discuss two aspects with you, which I shall sum up in one question to go directly to the essentials. First of all, many charges still have to be paid by businesses that are closed – especially in the Horeca – but that have to honour insurance premiums or, in some cases, bank credits. What measures have you decided on following your contacts? I know that several ministers are responsible for this issue, since I asked Minister Dermagne about it last week and that the Regions are also partially competent in this area. We know that the fixed costs of insurance and banking represent real difficulties. Second, everyone recognizes the need for bridge law, as it allows many independents to survive. That is why we support the recent extension. The Brussels field players – as I live in the Brussels Region – note that some payments, dating back to October for some of them, would still not have been paid. I'm talking about it to the conditional, because it's gross returns I've received. In any case, I would like to take stock with you of this. Have delays in the payment of bridge fees by social insurance funds accumulated since last October? Could you reassure those who are still waiting to receive it? For many, this is an amount that allows them to survive. For this reason, it is essential not to delay, at the risk of having very serious consequences.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic341x.u2	Minister, as you know, social insurance funds have been lagging behind in the payment of the bridge fee to the self-employed since September. This has been mentioned by my colleague at the moment. Such a delay can be explained, if not justified, by the influx of files, which obliges these caisses to adapt to the extraordinary circumstances in which we find ourselves today. It is sufficient to realise that, if, before the outbreak of the health crisis, the social insurance funds paid an average of 400 bridge fees per year, they had to pay more than 400 000 for the month of April alone. The problem today is twofold for these crates. Records management fees, levied on the payment of the contributions of the self-employed currently in great difficulty, are their only source of income in order to be able to work effectively and to pay the same self-employed on time. In addition to this, the volume of these contributions decreased significantly due to payment carry-overs. As a result, the social insurance funds are facing an upsurge in cases, and at the same time a reduction in their income intended to help them respond to this upsurge. Meanwhile, the distress of the self-employed is only growing. The prospects for reopening are moving away, although your party says so. The mortgage payment will soon resume, too. It can also be seen that if some independents manage to make it through the right bridge, for others it is insufficient. They have the rope on their necks, either because the bridge right is insufficient to cover fixed costs, or simply because the bridge right is not paid on time. Therefore, Minister, can you let me know what percentage of bridge fee payments were made for October, November and December 2020? I am referring to the bridge right of recovery and the bridge right of crisis. Will you be able to specify the breakdown of these payments according to the social insurance funds? Can you also tell me whether the government intends to cover part of the costs of managing these social insurance funds, in order to support them in the bridge payments? If not, do you envisage other measures that would make it possible to value the public interest mission of these funds, particularly today? Finally, can you tell me if the bridge system has been evaluated? Could its amount be adjusted according to the circumstances, in particular by type of sector or by turnover? I am thinking in particular of the night world which is the first sector to have closed and which will certainly be the last to reopen. However, this sector faces delusional fixed costs, even if only for the rental of large spaces. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic341x.u3	Madam President, Mrs Rohonyi, Mr Vanden Burre, so-called non-essential stores have been allowed to reopen since December 1, 2020. However, they may continue to benefit from certain support measures. If they have been subject to mandatory closure measures during the first confinement, they can still use the temporary crisis measure under the law bridge to support recovery, which has been extended until 31 December 2020. To benefit from this, they must demonstrate a 10% decrease in sales by comparing the third quarter of 2019 to the third quarter of 2020. Since January 2021, temporary crisis measures under bridge law have been the subject of a new scheme, better adapted to the current needs of the self-employed. Thus, all self-employed workers, regardless of their sector of activity, who can demonstrate a 40% decrease in turnover, will be eligible for this new measure. However, they will have to pay contributions for at least four quarters for established self-employed workers and two quarters for beginner self-employed workers, respectively, in the sixteen and twelve quarters before. The decrease in turnover is examined by comparing the sales of the month preceding the month of demand with the same month in 2019. The amounts remain the same, i.e. 1 614 euros with dependent family or 1 291 euros without dependent family. As Minister for Independents and SMEs, I do not have direct expertise in the banking and insurance sectors. On behalf of the Kern, my colleagues the Minister of Finance, Mr. Van Peteghem, and the Minister of Economy, Mr Dermagne, entered into negotiations with these sectors in November in order to extend the guarantee scheme for SMEs and the guarantee scheme for credit insurance until 30 June 2021, with a prior assessment. At the same time, at the same time, the Minister of Finance was invited to consult with the financial sector in order to extend the current moratorium on corporate credit. These negotiations have been successful and carry-overs of professional credits, as well as insurance premiums, are possible. Following a second charter on carryovers of appropriations between Febelfin and the Minister of Finance, a carry-over of payment of the credit to enterprises may be requested for the deadlines in January, February and March 2021 until 31 March 2021 at the latest, provided that the total duration of the carry-over does not exceed nine months. The Minister of Economy has negotiated a protocol with the insurance sector which also allows, under certain conditions, to obtain a deferral of payment of insurance premiums for companies for a period running until 30 June 2021. I invite you to ask my two colleagues if you would like to know more about these measures that do not concern my ministerial portfolio. Sectors which are still forced to close as a result of the closure measures of the public authorities may, if they meet the conditions, benefit from a double provision of the bridge right for the months of October, November and December. The payments of these benefits for these months were all made by the social insurance funds. Given the persistence of the pandemic at the beginning of 2021, for sectors forced to close, I wanted the double right bridge crisis to be extended in January. A bill to this effect will soon be tabled in Parliament, as soon as we have received the advice of the Council of State. Madam President, I will once again need your help in order to be able to move forward quickly on this text. With regard to the status of the payment of the bridge fee, I can inform you, on the basis of the figures transmitted by the social insurance funds and INASTI – more details can be communicated in writing – that 2,040,888 applications were paid from March to December 2020. Social insurance funds must ensure that these applications are processed within 15 calendar days and, to the best of my knowledge, the funds have caught up with their delay from last year. With regard to the months of October, November and December, if there are still bridge fees that are not yet paid today, it is either because the independent has submitted the application late and therefore a process of catching up is to be done, or because administrative issues are still open and there are therefore exchanges between the administrations and the self-employed. Otherwise, to the best of my knowledge, payments have been made for those months and, overall, the delay has been caught up. If you are aware of individual files for which difficulties arise, I would ask you to forward these files to my administration by specifying the necessary identity (name, first name, address and, possibly, national registry number). In this way, my administration will be able to examine each individual situation in good knowledge and, where appropriate, contact the relevant social insurance fund and/or the self-employed person concerned directly. Finally, I agree with you that the current crisis highlights the essential nature of the day-to-day tasks carried out by social insurance funds for the benefit of their self-employed members. Given the difficulties they face, many independents have had to resort to the crisis, carry-over, exemption or reduction measures planned for the four quarters of 2020. This has had a direct impact on the financing of funds whose management costs are levied on the contributions paid by the independents. From social security contributions agencies, they had to move, in record time and without additional financial resources, into crisis bridge payment agencies to help the many self-employed whose activities had been severely affected by the crisis. To achieve this, they have had to reinvent themselves and reorganize and motivate their teams to carry out these new missions with existing resources, including HR and ICT. Given the context, it is essential to avoid that these missions can no longer be carried out effectively and that the funds are not obliged to pay the additional costs to the self-employed by increasing the rate of management costs in the future. This is why the provisions of the Act of 22 December 2020 introducing various measures in favour of self-employed workers in the context of the covid-19 crisis provide that INASTI will be able to grant social insurance funds, exceptionally, advances of up to EUR 35 million to cover revenue losses. These advances will be gradually repaid in 2021 and 2022 as social insurance funds receive contribution payments. In addition, the Government has also undertaken to examine the situation of social insurance funds by the end of February 2021 and to take action if necessary. Finally, with regard to the evaluation of the system, as already said since January 2021, there is a new system. It aims to better meet the current needs of self-employed workers. It was developed taking into account the shortcomings of the old system. I will end my remarks by telling you that the various crisis bridge law measures are subject to continuous monitoring by the General Management Committee for the Social Status of Self-Employed Workers and regular monitoring of the social insurance funds which communicate their figures twice a month via the Association of Social Insurance Funds for Self-Employed Workers (ACASTI) to my firm.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic341x.u4	Thank you, Minister, and I give the floor to Mr Vanden Burre. I would like to recall that this committee is, of course, always available when it comes to supporting the self-employed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic341x.u5	Minister, I thank you for your long answer, but to the extent of the questions asked. For our part, there are three points of attention. First of all, I am pleased that you have clarified things with regard to bridge law. I take it from your answer that unless there is a delay or administrative error, all the 2020 gateway fees have been paid. Secondly, what is often stuck, still today, are bank credits and insurance premiums; as you and many of your government colleagues have said, this is not a simple matter. However, not all banks and insurance companies play the game in the same way. I know that this problem cannot be solved with a magic wand. However, the problem is important because independents whose businesses are closed, who therefore have zero euros of turnover, must continue to pay these fixed charges, which are sometimes high in terms of bank credit or insurance premiums. For us, everyone has to play the game, all industries, including banks and insurance. Unfortunately, this is not the case today. Thirdly, if I hope that, over the coming weeks and months, we will be able to move towards a gradual defination, I know that for some sectors, the closure will unfortunately last a long time. I am thinking of the night sector that my colleague spoke of. I am also thinking of the event sector, in part in any case, and the cultural sector. At some point, it may be necessary to continue to assist these sectors in a more targeted manner. For us, this is a real point of attention to which we shall return.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic341x.u6	Minister, thank you for the breadth of your answers, and also for your work. I have to recognize him. As far as the social secretariats are concerned, I understand that the delay in payment would have been eliminated during the past year. However, I have another bell sound. I understand your proposal to submit to you the individual files that would still be a problem today, but you understand that this is not an acceptable possibility for the Lambda citizen. It would be impossible for us to submit to you all the individual files that are problematic because if we know some people involved, we cannot know them all. I therefore believe that this solution is neither feasible nor acceptable to ensure equal treatment among the self-employed. I wonder if you really checked this information about whether or not there were late payments from each social insurance fund. For the rest, as I said, I am well aware of the measures that have been adopted by your Government. I am thinking of the bridge law, which you recalled the conditions for granting; I also welcome the extension of the double bridge law until February. I am also thinking of developments in the system, monitoring and the carry-over of business credits and insurance premiums. However, with regard to these measures, I would like to appeal to the relevant ministers. However, these aids are limited in time, while the prospects for reopening, particularly for certain sectors, are still very distant. I wonder what the government is planning for these independents, especially after March. Today, the independents – and I know you're aware of it – have a ball in their stomachs. For the next few months, they don't know how to keep their heads out of the water, especially those in sectors that won't be able to reopen for a while. I really invite you to continue your support for the independents by ensuring that the amount of the bridge fee is paid on time, that we respond to the specific situation of each independent, but also that this famous bridge right, as well as other support measures, can be extended as long as necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic341x.u7	Mrs Rohonyi, I know that from a distance it is not easy, because you do not see the chronometer, but I invite you to ensure that your speaking time is respected.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic341x.u8	Mr Minister, the 2020 programme law originally included some 13 articles on the statutory pension. On this programme law, an opinion was requested from the Council of State on urgency. However, the same Council of State did not maintain the urgency of the pension provisions in the Programme Act, with the exception of the increase in IGO benefits. The Council did so on the basis of the following statement of reasons, I quote. "Since the proposed provisions of the preliminary draft may have an earliest impact on pensions that may start from 1 January 2022, there is no link with the 2021 budget'. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic341x.u9	In other words, the Council of State did not accept the urgency of the request for an opinion on the pension provisions other than the IGA benefits. I would also like to quote from the explanatory statement to the 2021 budget on the self-employed. "The calculation ceiling for pensions will gradually be increased to the same extent as the increase in the minimum pension. In order to reduce the erosion of the pension ceiling, the latter will at least follow the increase in the wages of the active population. The cost of this measure in 2021 is negligible for the self-employed system. The correction coefficient for calculating pensions for self-employed persons for future career years shall be abolished in order to achieve an identical scheme for employed and self-employed persons." In other words, the calculation ceiling and the correction coefficient would follow the same path as for the minimum pension. Suddenly, however, this is no longer the case. The same also applies to the employees' wage ceiling. Minister, was it not the intention to increase the wage ceiling and abolish the correction coefficient from 1 January 2021? Now, however, I read that it will only be there from 1 January 2022. First of all, why is there this delay, this delay? Secondly, for budgetary reasons, will priority be given to the increase in minimum pensions over the adjustment of the wage ceiling and the abolition of the correction coefficient for self-employed persons in the future? Finally, can I assume that the budget entered for those planned pension changes will lapse in the 2021 budget? I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic341x.u10	Mr Van der Donkt, the increase in the income ceiling that is taken into account for the calculation of the pension and the abolition of the correction coefficient do indeed apply from 1 January 2021, as initially decided, in the sense that they apply from the career year 2021. The entry into force of the measures has therefore not been delayed. However, the pension legislation in force provides that the quarters in the starting year of the pension are to be calculated on the basis of the occupational income of the previous year and with the coefficient and ceiling applicable for that previous year. For example, when calculating a pension starting from 1 December 2021, the three quarters of 2021 will be taken into account and the corresponding pension amount will be calculated on the basis of the 2020 parameters. In fact, the increase in the income ceiling and the abolition of the correction coefficient will only have an impact on pensions that actually start for the first time from 1 January 2022. I repeat that there is no delay in the implementation of the measures. As regards the budgetary aspect, there is an amount of EUR 1 million for the abolition of the correction coefficient entered in the 2021 budget. However, it is already clear that the implementation of the two mentioned measures will not entail any expenditure in 2021.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic341x.u11	Minister, I am a little surprised by your answer. On the one hand, you say that there is no delay and, on the other hand, you say that the amounts entered in the 2021 budget are actually superfluous. I can see some contradiction there. I will, of course, continue to follow up the dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic341x.u12	Mr Minister, your colleague, the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Economic Affairs and Work Dermagne, wants to allow small leave of absence or temporary leave for people who want to be vaccinated against the coronavirus. He announced that intention a few days ago in the RTL program C'est pas tous les jours dimanche. In order to allow temporary leave for vaccinations, it is necessary to adapt the legislation on employment contracts. As in the case of circumstances for certain events, Minister Dermagne said it should be possible to ask for half a day's leave to be vaccinated. In the event of temporary leave, workers have the right to remain absent from work while maintaining their normal pay. So the employer pays. How are you, as a minister responsible for SMEs and self-employed persons among others, involved in the plans of the Minister for Employment? In what way is that aligned with you? Why is it desirable that employers, often self-employed and SMEs, should bear the cost of half a day's leave per employee who wants to be vaccinated? Do you foresee, by analogy with the plans of the Minister of Employment for employees, a similar allowance for self-employed people who wish to be vaccinated?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic341x.u13	Thank you, Mr. Anseew. I would point out that you are no longer translated. Interpreters were instructed not to translate any more when the speakers did not have helmets. This is an excellent Dutch language learning exercise for us, but I would just like to point it out.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic341x.u14	Mr Anseuw, the Minister for Employment is the only one responsible for the introduction of temporary leave for workers who wish to be vaccinated. However, I am convinced that if such leave is introduced, it should not only be borne by the employers who already have to cope with many costs due to the sanitary crisis. This is particularly the case for managers of small and medium-sized enterprises and self-employed people who do not have the same assets as larger employers or the public sector. Taking into account the details of the self-employed system, I am currently considering whether such a measure is necessary and/or feasible in favour of the self-employed. In this respect, I will not fail to consult the various representative self-employed organisations so that they can express the views of the main stakeholders.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic341x.u15	Minister, I conclude from your reply that there has been no consultation within the government, at least not between you and the Minister for Employment, which would certainly affect many self-employed, employers and SMEs. At the same time, you say that you believe that they should not take the fall for this, but it is, of course, to see who will have to pay for it. That is a question that you should not answer immediately, because you are indeed not competent for this measure, but it indicates that a lot of measures are being announced and even taken, without much consultation. Moreover, it is usually the same people who pay the price, especially those who have already been severely affected by the corona crisis in recent months. I would therefore like to thank you for your clear answer, Minister. I am very curious to see what kind of regulation will be introduced in the context of vaccination of the self-employed. However, I would like to add that it is important to check first whether this is really necessary. The same applies to the workers, but I intend to ask Minister Dermagne a question about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic341x.u16	Mrs Vanrobaeys, in reply to your first question, I can give you the following. The main element of the draft law is the extension of the doubling of the amount of the financial compensation under the temporary crisis measures of the right of bridging in the event of forced interruption. That is Article 4quater, of the Law of 23 March 2020. As you point out, a cumulative ceiling is also provided for under the double benefit from February 2021. This cumulative ceiling has been established by analogy with the cumulative ceiling in the new regime of the temporary crisis measures bridging law applicable from 1 January 2021. This is to ensure as much coherence as possible with this new regime. In concrete terms, the cumulation of financial assistance under the temporary crisis measures is allowed only on one condition: the sum of the financial benefits provided for under the temporary crisis measures, the right of bridging and the other replacement income per month, should not exceed the amount of the financial compensation provided for under the temporary crisis measures. In the event of overrun, the amount of the financial compensation provided for under the temporary crisis measures will be reduced to the extent of this overrun. As far as your second question is concerned, as regards the self-employed whose children are in quarantine or whose school or institution is closed, these self-employed persons may avail themselves of the third part of the new regime of the temporary right to bridge the crisis. This part entered into force on 1 January 2021. Therefore, the abovementioned extension decision has no particular impact on their situation. I would point out that the first part of the new regime does not concern such situations, but aims at the complete interruption of activity through the closure decision of the government. The entry into force of this first part was postponed until February 2021, having regard to the extension of the double benefit measures. At present, the self-employed are automatically continued to receive the double benefit. A new application is therefore not necessary. If their situation differs in one month from that in another month, they must absolutely inform their social insurance fund accordingly. To date, no significant signs have been received as regards delays in the payment of financial benefits. The social insurance funds will do everything they can to pay out the benefits as soon as possible once the applications are fully and concretely documented. At my request, all the social insurance funds have sent an information note to their members. This note contains an overview of all federal aid schemes to which the self-employed are entitled under the social status of self-employed persons. This also included the numbers of the call centre for general questions and for questions for psychological assistance. In order to speed up the payment of benefits to the self-employed, it was necessary that checks were not carried out a priori, which would have delayed their payment. My administration is in the process of developing further procedures for the post-clearance control. These will be included in a communication to the self-employed in the short term. At present, the necessary information on the conditions relating to this second part is already being disseminated on the website of the social insurance funds.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic341x.u17	Madam President, Minister, my reply is somewhat in line with the replies to the first series of questions. Of course, it is good that there is more coherence, for example in relation to the cumulative ceiling. As long as the business of the self-employed is forced to close, they must be able to rely on adequate support. I can only confirm what was just said. Many self-employed people see the walls coming at themselves, even if they offer takeaway. They're having a very hard time. It all weighs heavily mentally, too. The British variant is now starting to circulate. It is really necessary that they receive support. It is also good that there is no delay in payments. When will that bill be dealt with in the Chamber? The double bridging right is now renewed for another month. Afterwards, it can also be renewed by royal decree. However, would it not be useful to give certainty to the self-employed, so that they do not have to wait month after month for this scheme to be extended as long as there are forced closures? For example, they are at least certain of what income they can count on. The right of bridging is sufficient for some but certainly not for others. There is also a part there for the banks and insurance. However, it is important that they are sure of the amount they can count on in the event of forced closure. Shouldn't we arrange this immediately in a draft law so that we can provide that certainty?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic341x.u18	As you know, Prime Minister, vaccination centres are currently being rolled out in Flanders. It is a Flemish competence, but in the meantime the local authorities are busy summoning volunteers. This once again leads to a huge wave of solidarity, which is, of course, very positive news and heartwarming, but I do have a few questions. I know that the Flemish Government still has to lay down the statute under which this commitment can be included in the vaccination centres. There will be a fee and insurance, but it is not clear at all what compensation and insurance is involved. I can only imagine that some self-employed people who have been forced to shut down since March are not able to switch to a takeaway system or other alternatives. If they see that call, they might want to cooperate. Is there any consultation with the Länder on the statute under which these people can volunteer? Not only nurses and doctors are needed, but also counselors and people who arrange the administration in a vaccination center. If that is discussed and there is clarity about it, what impact will it have on their right of bridging? You have just mentioned the cumulative ceiling with other replacement income, but will a voluntary allowance and a commitment to cooperate have an impact on the right of bridging that self-employed people would receive because of a loss of turnover or a voluntary closure?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic341x.u19	Mrs Vanrobaeys, I will see to it that my powers are fully communicated. It is essential that future volunteers are properly informed. For the self-employed, only the exercise of another self-employed activity will constitute an obstacle to payment of the distribution of the right to bridge the crisis, granted in the context of an interruption imposed by the public authorities. A voluntary activity is not a professional activity and therefore does not constitute an obstacle to the granting of the right of bridging. However, in order to be considered a volunteer, the volunteer must fulfil the conditions laid down in the law of 3 July 2005 on the rights of volunteers. In that case only reimbursement of costs is allowed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic341x.u20	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is not clear to me whether the Länder intend to employ volunteers under the conditions of the law of 3 July 2005 under the voluntary status. I think it is very important for self-employed people who volunteer to know what impact their commitment will have on their income. Some people have water on their lips. I can imagine that the inclusion of such a commitment may alter the thoughts, but it cannot be the intention to tear one's pants off. I think it is also very important for the local authorities who are currently receiving reports from people who want to commit themselves. They are laying the puzzle of shifts and people who will be employed in the various vaccination centres. I hope that within a month they will not be told by some volunteers that they are not coming because there is an impact on their income. It is important for those who volunteer as volunteers and for the local authorities that there should be consultation and clarity as soon as possible so that they know what is going on.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic341x.u21	This concludes our session of the day.
