ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic527x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, I've had a meeting with most of your groups online. In that meeting I asked you to put forward three positions that you absolutely want in the text, and three points that you would rather not see appear in the text. I have to say, it's not so bad. I have tried to include two of the three green points in the final text, which you would like to see in the text, and to include as little as possible or no points at no pasarán. I haven't always been able to meet the wishes, but mostly. Let me make some of the difficult points. First of all, a positive point. Although a number of groups wanted a sectoral approach, everyone was understanding that a thematic approach was probably more likely to succeed. That is why I have chosen to proceed effectively with the non-sectoral approach. Nor was that a real demand of any party. Secondly, a difficult point is achieving the European target of 55%. There are parties who feel that 55% is too little. There are parties who say that 55% has already been acquired. Others want to condition things. And others say that 55% is not acceptable at all. So there is, from all the left to all the right, a totally different vision of that 55%. Because this is the case and I felt, in the conversations I had, that everyone wanted to come up with a text, I tried to solve it pragmatically. You must have seen that. With regard to 'at/vu', I added to the letters g and i that we take note that this 55% was submitted by 189 countries to the Secretariat of the UNFCCC, with the Council submitting the communication on behalf of the EU and its Member States on 17 December to achieve that 55% reduction by 2030 by 1999. That's a record, but it's important that it's in there. I hope nobody's against that. A second element I added is what the Prime Minister said at the European Council on 25 May. It then asked the Commission to further examine the environmental, economic and social impact of the climate legislative initiatives at Member State level before dividing climate objectives between Member States. In order to find a solution to this very broad position on 55%, I hope that by taking note of two facts that have occurred, we will be able to get out of it. Another difficult point was intra-Belgian burden-sharing. A number of parties really did not want to deal with this distribution, because it is not relevant to international events. Others thought that was very important. I tried to resolve it by mentioning on the very last page in point 43, in particular that, in view of current European climate policy developments, we need to achieve an intra-Belgian burden-sharing for 2030 targets and international climate financing as soon as possible. Preferably before the start of COP 26. I would like to add two more important points. Firstly, the MR Group had asked not to include anything about nature, because it has nothing to do with the environment. She was the only one who asked, while others wanted to take on a lot about nature. I ignored that question from the MR. Secondly, the PVDA Group had asked for the ETS to be abolished, but she also stood alone with her question. So I did not take that question into account either. That was my introduction to the text you received. I hope it wasn't too bad for you guys. I will give the floor to the political groups and then to the group leaders to respond to what is ahead.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic527x.u2	Mr President, it is, of course, a difficult balancing exercise, because all parties must be taken into account from left to right and from different parliaments, in particular three plus one. We have listed a number of issues which we believe should be included and a number of no pasaráns. The text is far from perfect for us, but we still find two of our three points in it in relation to the 55% target, the Burden Sharing and the sectoral approach. So I can go along with your philosophy. We must find a solution which is supported by all parties from the left to the right and by the various parliaments, so we can start with the text before us. We will, of course, be preparing a number of amendments and we will have to see what the reactions are to the others. We find some of our points in it and we do not find any points in it, but it is a good starting point for us.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic527x.u3	Mr President, a violation of the legal duty of care exercised by the authorities vis-à-vis their citizens and a violation of the human rights of the citizens: last week's ruling by the Court of First Instance in connection with the case brought by the Climate Change Association, as well as the draft report by the UN climate experts, which we can hear a little bit about today in the press, must wake us all up and encourage us to reach a very strong agreement together. I have said a number of times that it is up to us as policy makers to ask us again every day whether we are doing enough to keep global warming below 1.5 °C. If we do not do so, it will have consequences for citizens, their environment and their health, but also for our economy, because there is no strong economy in a weakened environment. Our country must not only make its voice heard in international and European negotiations, but must also play an active role in them. We have already said this to the President, and that was already in the federal government agreement. We can no longer look away from this climate crisis. We need to work better together with all governments and parliaments, so at all levels of policy in our country. As far as the Ecolo Green Group is concerned, this resolution must do so. As representatives of the people, we are obliged to break the immobilism surrounding the climate that characterised our country during the previous reign. We appreciate the way in which the President has contributed to the drafting of this second version of the text. We believe it is possible to continue working on this text as a basis, although the text, as far as our group is concerned, must be even more ambitious. The objective must be to arrive at a sound compromise together. For us, the outcome is more important than the timing. If there are certain issues that this committee needs to spend more time on, then we should take that time. We will not allow ourselves to adopt a text that is not sufficiently aware of a carbon-free future. Unmistakably accepting a reduction of 55% by 2030 is a minimum for the Ecolo Green Group to reach a joint resolution. I understand that a compromise had to be sought, but at the moment the wording in the text is too non-binding. It all sounds a little too careful. If the text states that the European Council's guidelines of 11 December 2020 have been taken into account, we would prefer to see them welcomed and supported in the text. A second aspect is the need for a fair and sustainable funding framework for our group. This is a priority for us because we want a significant increase in funding for international climate finance, on top of the resources for development cooperation, with a balance between the financing of mitigation and adaptation. This also means that, as soon as possible, and preferably before the Glasgow Summit, we need to achieve this intra-Belgian burden-sharing for the increased targets in international climate financing by 2030. We are pleased that you were the last to include this aspect in the resolution. We express our general appreciation of the text because the corona crisis and the need for a sustainable socio-economic recovery offer our country a historic opportunity to make the transition, in line with the Paris agreement. Our group will table some amendments in the coming days. Despite the good basis that the text already offers, we believe that it still requires some substantial adjustments. I do not know whether Mr Florent would like to fill in the rest of my speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic527x.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as Kim has said, the proposed text is an acceptable basis for discussion – I really want to thank Mr Muyters' initiative and listening – but not yet enough in our view. We shall therefore propose some amendments. The most important is the 55 per cent. We believe that it is appropriate not only to act, but also to endorse. I would simply remind you that on 14 July 2021 the European Commission will table the "Fit for 55" legislative package, which will become the European roadmap just before COP26 is held. We believe that it is no longer time to observe a commitment a little far away but really to adopt it. Finally, I will end by referring to the latest IPCC report that was released this morning. The resolution will be read carefully not only by the government but also by the press, environmentalists and young people who are directly concerned. It is important to put all the efforts around the table to live up to the stakes. Therefore, if it is necessary to organise complementary working meetings, even during the summer or September, to reach an ambitious agreement, we have no concern to mobilise. The stakes are high enough. I thank everyone for the collaboration.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic527x.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to meet with you today to continue our work in the framework of our interparliamentary dialogue Climate with a view to finally reaching a consensus on the motion for a resolution that we intend to adopt prior to COP26 on 30 June. First of all, let me welcome the work done by the President and the services which, following our discussions at the last WG and our bilateral exchanges or by e-mail, made us a new proposal for a martyred resolution. This new proposal seems much more constructive than the first version that was originally presented to us. It is clear that no agreement could have been reached on the previous version. On the other hand, it seems to us that we can now use the new version as a basic text to reach a consensus, with of course some amendments and more ambition. If we regret the lack of taking into account our request to approach the resolution in a sectoral approach, as we did together in 2018, we agree to compromise and therefore sign our agreement to rework the President's version and submit amendments to it by 28 June. Of course, I will not go into the details of these amendments today, but I will stick to a few comments and try to respect the five-minute timing. With regard to Climate International funding, the original proposal was not acceptable to us as it stands. It was important that this funding should not be weakened. We will no longer propose specific amounts for this funding, but we would nevertheless like to agree on a significant increase over the previous commitment. This seems to us to be an acceptable and audible compromise. As far as the structure of the document is concerned, in order to avoid confusion and to make a clear distinction, we should separate the financing part between, on the one hand, the financing of the international climate and, on the other hand, the financing of the transition. In addition, a title "Impact of the climate crisis" could also be inserted, for example, where loss of damage, gender, migration, food security, etc. could be found. Furthermore, in our view, a direct reference should be added to the IPCC special report on global warming, which scientifically documents the most serious consequences for the world's population without sufficient and rapid limitation of greenhouse gas emissions. In fact, it highlights the vital difference between global warming of 1.5°C and global warming of 2°C. In addition, and in parallel with supporting the European ambition to move towards a climate-neutral European society by 2050, we believe that an additional reference could be added to the 2021 report on scenarios for a climate-neutral Belgium by 2050, published on 1 June this year. Finally, a particularly important point for us is not just to take note of the European Council's guidelines for reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 55% by 2030 compared to 1990 levels; it is essential to support this ambition and not just to say that a process of verification of the objectives achieved should be envisaged in this context. In general, that is what I wanted to say while respecting the time allotted. Again, I would like to thank you for this new version of the text on behalf of my group.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic527x.u6	The next intervention is for the Flemish Interest Group.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic527x.u7	Mr President, it is a demonstration of diplomacy that you have put forward here, for which I am grateful. You've been trying to get all the visions aligned. In the bilateral interventions we have put a number of issues on the table, including the 55% reduction by 2030. That is not an unacceptable issue for us, but an unattainable one. We agree that you should take note of it. It's nice to express an ambition, but it's much better to realize something. It must not become ideological in order to achieve anything on the basis of ideological questions from all parties. That's almost impossible. I do not think we should go as far as COP 26 indicates. We will see to what extent amendments are still being made. It seems to me that this will only slip further. We'll see what the final report will yield. With what's ahead, it's hard to agree.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic527x.u8	I do not think Mr Pieters has spent his five minutes. My group also includes Mr Ravyts, who also wanted to supplement briefly, albeit within the five-minute period.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic527x.u9	Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank you for involving our group in the debate on the text of the death penalty. I have seen that it was very difficult to take our desiderata into account. I refer briefly to paragraph 19, which seeks and supports all initiatives that allow an evaluation of how the strengthened European NDCs relate to additional efforts by other trading blocs. For us, that's a little vague. I'll stick with that example. From the interventions of colleagues from Green and the PS, I have remembered that the death text, which has already been heavily aborted, will continue to perish. In the end, we are moving towards a Vivaldi text. You will undoubtedly call it a compromise. Our group, through Mr Pieters, has indicated that it seems to be rather a Vivaldi text which you are trying to disguise a little by means of acts. However, the amendments will make a lot of sense. We may not be able to approve the text and with some certainty. However, that is not your responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic527x.u10	Mr Ravyts, my mission was to try to reach a consensus. Sometimes the cabbage and the goat have to be spared. I did. Should it be a text that came only from the N-VA, it would be a different text. If the text had only come from the Flemish Interest, from the PS or from Green, it would have been another text. However, I have felt the will of everyone I have heard to come up with a common text. So I tried. The next group will be the MR Group, to which Mrs Czekalski will speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic527x.u11	Like my colleagues, I would like to thank you, Mr President, for coming back to us with this motion for a resolution following bilateral meetings with the various parties. This work must have been done in a short period of time, and we are well aware of it. I will not be very long in my speech, because the vast majority of us agree with this text. As requested, we will send you some amendments by Monday. Given the stakes, it is very important for the MR Group to reach a consensus on this resolution. This motion for a resolution is based on a number of points that are dear to us and which we share. Our group believes that it is important to remember that since two thirds of global emissions are due to the combustion of fossil fuels, it is essential to set up massive productions of decarbonised energy. These low-carbon-emitting energies must strive for sustainability and ensure abundant, accessible and decarbonized energy. Beyond the production aspect and its importance, we must bear in mind that at this stage we do not have all the keys to successful transition. It will therefore still be necessary to invest and innovate in the new energy vectors in order to overcome the intermittent nature of the main electric renewables and to ensure our non-electrifiable uses. With regard to point 11, this request refers to making international agreements levers for climate change and to including binding standards in free trade agreements, which remain contracts between States. We are going to introduce amendments to make that clear and to prevent anyone from signing agreements with us any more. With regard to point 35, we will introduce an amendment to support research and innovation in the field of green kerosene. Finally, with regard to point 40, we will propose deleting the part of the sentence concerning the incentive of other countries to ban the use of soybeans and palm oil in biofuels in the transport sector as soon as possible. In our view, we must be careful about this. Implementation of the European Directive is currently under way in Belgium and is causing tensions with ASEAN countries, in particular. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic527x.u12	Mr President, I would like to join with all the praises for the work that has been done. The piece that has been delivered and is now being discussed is indeed a very good basis for reaching a joint resolution and contains sufficient food and drink for those who want to read a clear position in it. That doesn't mean that some things can't be done better here and there. Firstly, the way we are talking about the Fit for 55 package of the European Commission and the Green Deal. In the text now before us, we are simply taking note of it, whereas we should talk about active support and helping to achieve it. From our group, we will put forward proposals to strengthen the wording of the text in this area. A second point in substance concerns international climate financing, an important issue when it comes to COP. In the text I see an indication, together with the resources for development cooperation. I think it's important to put things right. International climate finance and development cooperation have to do with each other, but are still two different budgets, different policy choices. We must also make this very clear in this way. In addition to a number of other textual proposals, I would like to mention one last point in substance, namely paragraph 43, in which the suggestion was taken up that our governments should ask our governments to implement an intra-Belgian agreement effectively before COP 26. I believe that our parliaments should be able to formulate this in a more rigorous, stronger way. I do not think any of us want to go back to the previous discussions on Burden Sharing. From the Parliament, I believe that we should impose a very strong deadline on governments, with which we send a clear signal to both governments and the outside world about urgency. After the partial condemnation of the climate issue, climate issues may be even higher on the agenda. We can say that we have understood the urgency and ensure that the governments understand that urgency. Thank you again for the work done. I am convinced that we can come up with a strong text.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic527x.u13	Thank you, Mr Bothuyne, for the confidence that we will get there.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic527x.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have also noted that the text before us is an improvement on the original version. It can certainly serve as a basis for us as well. We are also pleased that you have taken some of our comments into account, albeit not all of them. I would like to mention an article today in De Standaard following the new IPCC report expected at the beginning of next year, but which has already been partly leaked today. It describes the current insights of science. I quote: "A permanent global warming above the threshold of one and a half degrees would have irreversible consequences for human and ecological systems. The IPCC's draft report would clearly state that humanity cannot adapt to major climate changes." We are approaching a point of no return, they say. I quote: 'Therefore every fraction of a degree counts'. The difference between two degrees of warming, which was the goal at the time, and one and a half degrees of warming, which, according to the expert panel, will be established in four years' time, is literally and figuratively vital. The IPCC states that there is hope and that we can still take strong measures to stop the runaway climate change. The IPCC doesn't beat around the bush, I quote: "This requires a radical transformation at all levels. We must completely redefine the way we organise our society." Colleagues, I said it last time: it is crucial that we listen to science. When I read the text before me, with the most recent insights of climate science in mind, that is and remains insufficient, even though it has greatly improved. I get the impression that some still underestimate the seriousness of the situation or do not want to take it into account. After all, the text does not start from the radical transformation we need. If we start from maintaining our economic strength and measure our climate policy against the efforts of other trading blocs, we will not get there. It is sometimes said that there is no social paradise in an economic graveyard and vice versa, but I would like to go even further here and say that one cannot have a thriving economy on a dead planet either. The present text is based entirely on the prevailing framework and logic of the market, including public subsidies to attract private investment, an international carbon market and a European CO2 border tax. It is just that half-hearted approach of the past few decades, which has brought us into today's situation: a climate crisis that is in danger of getting completely out of hand. The current approach, which has unfortunately become commonplace, fits nicely with the definition of Einstein's insanity, namely to keep doing the same thing over and over again and still expect a different result. Perhaps a small correction, Mr President: you said in your introduction that you did not follow the abolition of the ETS from our priorities. We continue to defend that position, but our wording was broader. What matters is that we strongly oppose the operationalisation of the international carbon market in the context of COP 26. This is at risk from the Paris Agreement, which has already been proven in the past by experience with carbon markets, which already existed at the time of the Kyoto Protocol. To conclude, we oppose the logic whereby the government can only grant subsidies to large monopolies for attracting private investment. That is also the logic of the European Green Deal, and that is not how we will get there. We need public initiative and public investment. In the text before us, there is absolutely no mention of the radical breakage we need according to the IPCC. It is the continuation of current climate policy, which is totally inadequate and has brought us to the brink of collapse. Nevertheless, as a left-wing opposition, we will continue to be constructive in the interparliamentary climate dialogue. We will therefore table a number of amendments next week to try to improve the text on a number of points.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic527x.u15	Mr President, you are probably getting very warm with all those words of praise that are coming to your attention. You have made a maximum effort to achieve results with the methodology you have applied. It is not easy to reconcile three requests. Sometimes one group's request could not be discussed by the other group. Then you should try to land with a particular text. It is very important that we can come up with a common text. That's what I'm saying as a delegation leader. It would be particularly annoying and embarrassing if the climate ministers, federally or regionally competent, were to appear there without the necessary parliamentary backing. I agree with Mrs Buyst, we are on our way to some sort of government de justice, in the context of that court ruling. The judges then take over from politics if politics fails to compromise. We must avoid that at all costs. That therefore presupposes that the political compromises can be made. If amendments are made over the next few days, with each group trying to get back to its own party programme, the final result will, of course, be questionable. I am not entirely satisfied with that text either, as an attempt at compromise, but from our party programme Mr Schiltz and I would perhaps have liked to make other points. For example, we have proposed points such as the mention of the European Union's fiscal instruments. You didn't mention that. I can now make an amendment on that, but I am considering not doing so because I would like to give a compromise every opportunity next week. With regard to social justice and financing, you have taken due account of the comments made by various groups. For the ambition, the technique of taking the act is a good method. That is what I said at a previous meeting. If there's nothing else we can do, let's just take facts into account. You have taken note of a number of facts, including what the Federal Prime Minister has already said at another European meeting. In other words, that is a good basis for us. I hope it is a basis with which we could land, although amendments can of course be. If we were not able to reach a consensual position with all the parliaments that our country is rich, it would not be a good thing for the prestige of our country at such an international conference. I wish you further success, and perhaps we will table some amendments here and there, but with the aim of not compromising the end result.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic527x.u16	Thank you, Mr Dewael, for your praises and constructive attitude. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats would normally take the floor, but they have been informed that they are present on another committee. They will submit their amendments to this text. Apparently the speaker for CDH is also absent, as is the representative of DéFI. Now the leaders of the political groups who wish to do so can ask for the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic527x.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to congratulate the President on his effort to find a compromise, which was not simple. It's always a permanent challenge. From the point of view of the German-speaking Community, I would remind you that at the time we sent a resolution adopted by our Parliament. We find some elements in the text. My only point concerns the addressees of this resolution, which are the Belgian Government and the delegates in the conferences, but also the regional governments. In this respect, the German-speaking Community would like to be included among the regional governments, not because it has the ambition to become a Region, but because today our government already manages competences that are directly concerned and that have been transferred to us through Article 139 of the Constitution, namely, spatial planning, housing and part of energy policy. I would like to see some indication that our Government is also a recipient of this resolution. In addition, I will follow closely the work which will lead, I hope, to a positive result. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic527x.u18	Mr Lambertz, I suggest that you table a small amendment to that particular point. That'll be the easiest thing to do. Then it will be at the place where you would like to see it, and we will assess together next week whether we can take these amendments with us. The next Head of Delegation is Mr Roberti.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic527x.u19	Mr President, we have had a small internal working group in the Brussels Parliament. Everyone was able to acknowledge that the method that you put in place with the three priorities and the three red lines had led to a text that seemed to be a better basis than the previous text that you had submitted. However, some political groups regretted the removal of the sectoral approach. Some political groups said that they found themselves in the text and that they would simply table cosmetic amendments. Others said that the text was a good basis but that they would, however, table amendments with a slightly stronger scope than cosmetic ones. As a delegation, we did not propose an amendment. We agreed that now it was up to the political groups to play and table amendments for next Monday, as you pointed out.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic527x.u20	Mr Hermant apologized for illness. I would like to conclude myself, unless other people ask to speak, in about the same sentence as Mr Dewael did. I can assure you, after hearing everyone, that if everyone returns to their original positions, we will be less far away next time than we are today. I would really like to ask you to table amendments on those things that you consider absolutely necessary. I am now looking at Mr Florent and Mrs Buyst. I fully understand that Ecolo-Groen wants to go much further than, for example, the N-VA or Flemish Interest or perhaps even CD&V, but then we do not come to a text. What is ideal for one will not be feasible for the other. I would like to give that to you, because I have experienced it in the tour, and Mr Dewael also stressed that everyone would find it embarrassing if we did not come up with a text. The closer the amendments you submit to your party programmes, the further they may be from another party's programme. I would ask that this be taken into account in order to arrive at a text that is ultimately supported and could be approved in any parliament. I will follow Mrs Buyst when she says that if we need a little more time on one point or another, that should be possible. Mr Dewael said at some point that we still have time after next week, not today but at one of the previous meetings. I agree. We must know that in September we will have to present our text in the various parliaments in order to have the resolutions adopted in the various parliaments in good time before the COP. I thank everyone. Everyone has congratulated me, and I'm very happy about that. That means we've done our job. I would also like to thank my colleagues who have worked on this text. They've done an immense job. I hope that we will be able to land effectively. I expect the various amendments at noon on Monday at the latest. We will group them by theme. So I really ask for text amendments that we will group according to their place in the whole and we will try to discuss them next Wednesday. I hope that there will not be too much, nor that they will go too far to one side or the other to have a chance of success. However, I believe that everyone understands that heavy amendments can also have consequences. Nobody's asking for the floor anymore. Then I thank everyone for their input. We'll see you next Wednesday. I wish you much pleasure in writing, but little text with your amendments.
