ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic576x.u1	Minister, as a result of the containment measures, many people who usually work abroad or engage in some of their professional activities abroad have been forced to work from home. A significant increase in cross-border teleworking can have a significant impact on the social treatment of remuneration. On the basis of European rules, a worker is subject to the social legislation of a single Member State, irrespective of his or her State of residence. However, if the worker is employed simultaneously in several Member States for at least 25% of his working time, he will be subject to the social security legislation of his State of residence. In the context of the crisis, Belgium and other European States have taken measures to exempt hours worked in the country of residence in order to prevent the use of telework from entailing an amendment of the applicable social security legislation. However, Minister, we know that telework will develop within companies. The increased use of telework is therefore likely to significantly increase the working time of the worker in his or her State of residence. This shift will have consequences for both the worker and the employer, which could, in particular, be subject to an increase in the cost of wages. Minister, have you ever started thinking about the situation of cross-border teleworkers in the post-COVID-19 era? Are any adaptations to the European Regulation envisaged by the different Member States of the European Union?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic576x.u2	Madam President, Minister, I have a similar question. We're postcorona, and everyone knows telework is on the rise. The experiences learned disadvantages, but certainly also the benefits. The European rules are known: cross-border employment is normally subject to the social security of one Member State. However, those who work more than 25% at home are also subject to social security in the country of residence. During the corona period that 25 % rule was suspended and that suspension is still in force until the end of December. For the many frontier workers working in the Netherlands or Luxembourg, we see that more and more companies are using more telework. The question arises as to how this should be dealt with after December. In practice, it means that frontier workers are allowed to work less than workers living and working in their own country. Telework is soon limited to one day for frontier workers, because the allocation of more teleworking days leads to a lot of additional administrative burdens for the employer, as the employer has to split up the salary to pay social security contributions in different countries. Even in the case of frontier workers, if they are covered by the collective agreement law, teleworking raises many questions. For example, what happens if the employee is ill? Under the collective agreement law, in the event of illness, wages are paid for a piece by the employer from abroad. Only then will the worker be covered by the social security of the country of residence. Minister, has this issue been discussed at European level? How can the rules be adapted to new forms of work, without giving rise to all kinds of false constructions that may or may not be set up? At the end of December there will be an end to neutralization, but if this problem has not been discussed before the end of December, what will be the consequences? It is important that frontier workers are aware of the possible consequences if they are more teleworking than allowed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic576x.u3	Madam President, since the beginning of the health crisis, telework has been one of the essential means of limiting the spread of the virus. With regard to cross-border intra-European mobility, the determination of the applicable social security legislation is provided for in European Regulations Nos. 883/2004 and 987/2009 on the coordination of social security systems. This 25% rule in European Regulation 987/2009 concerns the determination of the applicable social security legislation in accordance with Coordination Regulations 883/2004 and 987/2009. More specifically, it concerns situations of pluriactivity, i.e. situations in which a person simultaneously or consecutively pursues an activity in the territory of several Member States of the European Union. The abovementioned European coordination regulations provide that these so-called multi-employer workers must be subject to the social security of their Member State of residence provided that they carry out a substantial part of their activity there, i.e. at least 25 % of that activity. In order to apply this rule, telework is also taken into account in assessing the intensity of the activity pursued in the Member State of residence. Because of the health crisis, many frontier workers had to work from home. For many of them, the intensity of activity in the territory of the Member State of residence increased significantly. Under the 25% rule, this increased use of telework could thus have led to a change in the applicable social security legislation. Border workers previously subject to the social security legislation of the Member State of employment because they did not perform substantial work in the Member State of residence prior to the health crisis should have been affiliated in their Member State of residence because of the increased telework, either by exceeding the threshold of 25% or by full-time telework, because the Member State of residence becomes the Member State of employment. The Administrative Commission for the Coordination of Social Security Systems, on the basis of the caselaw of the Court of Justice of the European Union, considered that the covid pandemic led to an exceptional situation for which force majeure could be invoked. Therefore, the applicable legislation applicable to the persons in accordance with Title 2 of Regulation 883/2004 does not need to be amended due to the covid pandemic. On the basis of these principles, Belgium agreed with neighbouring countries on 17 March, and in particular with the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, to offset the impact of increased telework due to the health crisis for the adoption of the applicable social security legislation for cross-border commuters and frontier workers. The Administrative Commission on the Coordination of Social Security Systems then examined this issue and prepared and validated guidelines on this issue, inter alia to offset the impact of increased telework due to the health crisis. Thus, the applicable legislation did not need to be changed for many frontier workers who had to work telework. The validity of these Guidelines was extended until 31 December 2021 and applies to the 27 Member States of the European Union, Switzerland and the Member States of the European Economic Area - EEA - namely Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein. The United Kingdom also applies these guidelines. It was actually both a social security measure and a public health measure. Once the health crisis is over, telework is likely to continue to dominate. The European Commission is also of the opinion that such a reflection is necessary and must assess whether and how such a reflection can take place. This must be carried out at Union level and it is important that the rules that would be laid down are identical for all Member States. The impact of the rules on all branches of social security should also be properly assessed. However, there is still no concrete proposal on this subject at this time. I note that on 9 July the French Senate adopted a resolution aimed at making the increase in teleworking time allowed for frontier workers permanent. By its resolution, the French Senate therefore calls on the European Union to increase the rate from which an activity is described as substantial, so that frontier workers can be on telework up to two days a week, without causing a change in the determination of the State to which their social contributions are to be paid. On the other hand, the French Senate calls on the French Government to support this increase and to make it known in the negotiations in the Council; in short, such a debate must necessarily take place at European level. I asked my administration to carry out an initial exploratory evaluation of the problem, in close consultation with the institutions responsible for the adoption of social security legislation. In this way, I will soon be able to obtain the results of the evaluation when the debate starts at European level.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic576x.u4	Minister, thank you for this comprehensive response. I'd be interested to receive a copy because it's very long. I welcomed the exceptional measures that were put in place during this crisis, such as the failure to take into account the periods of work carried out on Belgian territory by frontier workers following the coronavirus. These measures are known to be time-limited. Telework is also known to become structural. Therefore, our social security system must evolve. I agree with you when you say that the reflection must be global and the rules identical at the level of the Member States of the European Union. You and your administration are analyzing the problem with the competent authorities. I will be attentive to the development of the case and will not fail to re-examine you in a timely manner.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic576x.u5	I thank the Minister for his comprehensive reply. I am relieved that it has already been put on the European agenda by the French resolution. The tax problem is still there, and it is connected with it. It's even more urgent. I also ask the same question to Minister Van Peteghem. That is where the neutralization of the bilateral agreements ends at the end of September. In addition to the analysis carried out by your administration in the field of social security, a problem which is indeed being discussed at European level, it would be good to consider whether the rules on social security and taxation can be improved and harmonised. They should also be adapted to the new forms of work. I believe that this is in the interest of the border workers working in our neighbouring countries, but also of the employers here who are employing foreign border workers, especially now with the shortage of labour. We certainly need to see how this work can be adapted to teleworking and new forms of work.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic576x.u6	Minister, the corona crisis has had an important impact on the evolution of absenteeism in this country. According to a study by SD Worx, based on wage calculations by 70,000 employers and accounting for nearly 1 million workers, the medium-term absenteeism rate has risen sharply among younger workers up to 25 years of age. There is also a 33% increase in workers aged between 25 and 29, as well as in the 30 to 34 age group, with a 24% increase. The rise is much more important among the workers than among the servants. In the case of civil servants, absenteeism during the corona could in turn show a decreasing trend. As absenteeism is an indication of the well-being of the employees and has a major impact on the organisation of the employer, it is important to have a good analysis of this phenomenon. That is why we have a number of questions. Can you confirm the figures of SD Worx based on the total labour population? Are there any differences between the three regions based on the figures of the total labour population, and if so, which ones? What is your analysis of these remarkable shifts in absenteeism? Finally, what initiatives will you take to address the causes of this failure?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic576x.u7	Thank you. Mrs Samyn, I have had a detailed overview for the years 2019-2020 of the number of days covered by the RIZIV benefit insurance and the average number of days per beneficiary for the period of primary incapacity for work, i.e. the first year of incapacity for work. Therefore, we do not include the days covered by the guaranteed wage in such an investigation. It is possible to divide these figures according to social status (workers, servants), age category and region. What do we learn from that? The overall disease rate..... and by that I mean the number of days per beneficiary..... has decreased from 10.23 in 2019 to 9.89 in 2020. As far as social status is concerned, the rate of illness among workers is higher than for servants. This is partly due to the difference in the period of guaranteed wages: as you know, workers are limited to 14 days, while servants are entitled to guaranteed wages for 30 days. The difference in the nature of the activity can also explain the higher disease rate among workers. The sickness rate of servants shows a slight increase between 2019 and 2020: from 8.11 to 8.15. In the case of workers, there was a significant decrease in the average number of days: from 12.53 to 11.81. As far as the Region is concerned, the disease rate was highest in Wallonia in 2020 at 11,02, followed by Flanders at 9,78. In the Brussels-Capital Region, the average number of days per beneficiary was significantly lower by 7.59. The disease rate is partly determined by social status and income, and therefore it is all the more remarkable that the disease rate in Brussels is lower than in Wallonia or Flanders. Perhaps this can be explained by the fact that the population in Brussels is generally a little younger, and also that there are relatively more servants in Brussels than workers, compared to the other regions, since servants have lower sickness rates than workers. With regard to the age category, it can be established that the disease rate is increasing by age, regardless of the social status and the region. In the case of workers, the disease rate in age categories 20-24, 25-29 and 30-34 decreases by 6.26 %, 5.38% and 4.38% respectively. A slight increase of 2.06 % and 0.76 %, respectively, can be observed in servants aged 25-29 and 30-34 years, while the disease rate decreases in them in the 20-24 age group, albeit marginally by 0.91 %. This is therefore not in accordance with the determinations of SD Worx, to which you refer. This difference with SD Worx may be explained by working with a population of workers and servants. The figures of the RIZIV, on the other hand, include the unemployed as well as the workers and servants. In addition, the figures of SD Worx cover the period from January 2019 to July 2021, while the data of RIZIV are limited to the years 2019 and 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic576x.u8	Thank you, Minister, for your very comprehensive and reasonable technical answer. I will read it carefully in the report and ask any additional questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic576x.u9	Minister, last year several measures were taken to prevent the loss of unused meal and ecocheques. On the advice of the NAR, the validity of these cheques was extended. In addition, by means of an amendment to the Programme Act, we also provided for a scheme whereby meal and ecocheques whose validity expired in 2020 and which were therefore not eligible for an extension should be re-issued for 12 months in the case of meal cheques and 24 months in the case of ecocheques. The Council of State ruled on the basis of a bill I had submitted that the value of the lapsed cheques should not be left behind the issuing offices. That is very important. However, that was only a solution for a year. December is getting closer and I would like to know whether a structural solution has been worked out in the meantime. This is important, because we can see that for meal and ecocheques alone, it is an annual amount of more than EUR 5 million, and that does not include sports, culture and corona premiums. A number of additional steps have already been taken, such as the digitisation of cheques. That was already the case for the meal cheques and now for the ecocheques. That is good, but it does not mean that there will be no unused cheques, and so we still have to find a solution for the cheques that are not used up and would therefore lapse. One possible path is to pay the funds directly to the workers and to be regarded as wages, which makes them subject to social and fiscal charges, which makes them complex. Another slope is that the remaining amounts are used for other purposes. I proposed giving them to the food banks, but we could also ask the social partners if they have other slopes or solutions. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. Have the social partners considered a structural solution for the remaining amounts of meal, eco, sports, culture and other cheques? If so, what was their advice? If they have not thought about a structural solution, can you ask them? Do you have a proposal for what we will do with the money left behind at the issuing offices? That must not be allowed to remain there. We must have a structural solution before the end of the year.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic576x.u10	The extension of the issuing period and the re-release of meal, eco, sports and culture cheques were linked to specific measures linked to the exceptional circumstances of the covid crisis. Because the use of these cheques was severely restricted due to this crisis, the number of unused cheques increased exponentially. The beneficiaries of these cheques were forced to block their pay advantages in the form of cheques. The amounts linked to the unpublished cheques remained on the issuing companies' account. For this reason, exceptional measures were taken to extend the validity of the cheques or to re-publish them. Since a few months, the use of meal and ecocheques has been greatly extended. For sport and culture it was necessary to wait longer. Fortunately, we were able to take important steps forward there too recently. Since the lockdown measures in the cultural and sports sector are among the most significant, I have prepared a draft royal decree which specifically provides for an exceptional extension for sports and culture cheques. For example, the beneficiaries of these cheques have the time to spend them and we can also support these sectors when they are restarted. This draft is currently before the National Labour Council for its opinion. Apart from this specific covid context, the problem of lapsed cheques is a very old one. This concerns wage benefits which can be granted free of social and tax charges under certain conditions. One of these conditions is a limited period of validity. Amounts linked to the value of cheques lost or not used within the specified period of validity shall remain on the accounts of issuing companies. That is a very unfortunate matter. The digitisation of cheques represents a major step forward, as you yourself say. The electronic cheque system allows the employee to easily consult the balance and period of validity of the electronic cheques he has received and which have not yet been used. The electronic cheque system also ensures that fewer cheques are lost. The meal cheques were now fully digitized. The ecocheques will soon be the same, once the royal decision I have prepared, together with Mr Dermagne, will be in effect. This draft, too, is currently before several Advisory Councils, including the National Labour Council. The proposals you put forward to unblock the amounts of unused cheques in the issuing companies' accounts are all very exciting and commendable. They also raise a number of practical problems, of course. For example, the slope that the amounts are paid directly to employees after deduction of the necessary social and tax charges assumes that the issuing companies should redistribute the amounts to employers, who would then have to re-examine the wage benefits administratively, in order to be able to charge the necessary social and tax charges. This therefore entails administrative costs for publishers and employers. A problem is also the amount to be charged for social and tax charges. The slope of the food banks is also very exciting in terms of idea and has a very beautiful and solidarity. However, you yourself are suggesting that it is about wage benefits granted to employees. They have not cashed them, but they are coming to them. That is right at the heart of the matter. It is always about wage benefits, although with a special tax and parafiscal status, which have been established in the employment relationship between employer and employee and belong to the latter. We must therefore consult the social partners on this. I will therefore immediately take an initiative to ask the social partners for their advice and to ask them for the pistes they put forward with regard to these unused wage benefits.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic576x.u11	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your reply. Firstly, I would like to say that the figure of EUR 5.3 million is the figure of a year in which there was no corona crisis. I'm talking about 2019. The years before that amount was even higher. Apart from corona, therefore, there is a problem that needs to be addressed in a structural way. Therefore, if you are considering a temporary extension of the measure for sports and culture cheques, it may be an option to re-introduce for the meal and ecocheques the extension that we introduced by amendment in 2020 and thus oblige the issuing offices to re-issue the unpublished and thus expired 2021 cheques by the end of 2021. The fact that the cheques are electronic and the ecocheques are now completely electronic will not be a complete solution. That's what I've been up to myself. We have also seen this with the meal cheques, which have been electronic for years and days, and where we also see significant unused amounts of residual money. I feel finally understood. It is good that you are now saying that the social partners will again ask for advice, but on the structural solution of what needs to be done with the money remaining at the issuing offices. I've only made a few suggestions. I know that giving them back to the workers, who, of course, pay the social security contributions, is not obvious. But it may also be a different proposal from mine. I myself put forward the idea of the food banks. It may be any project. One can also consider that it simply goes back to the Treasury. None of that matters, as long as it happens. As the Council of State has said, it must not remain at the issuing offices. Let us put this right, at least for the future, and also look at what needs to be done with the money from the past.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic576x.u12	Minister, more and more companies are offering their employees all kinds of extra-legal benefits as part of the wage package. These include, for example, meal cheques, ecocheques, a company car, group insurance or hospitalisation insurance. This can be fiscally advantageous for both employees and employers. However, this does not build up pension rights, something that workers very often do not realize. For example, if you drive a company car for 10 years, you will receive about EUR 889 gross pension per pension year less than if you had been paid the value of that company car as a wage. The greening of commercial vehicles is good, but employees need to realise that they have fewer pensions with a company car. It is very important that this awareness exists. One can then choose to get paid as a wage, so that one will get more pension later. In addition, the payment of a large percentage of wages in the form of extra-legal benefits also has a negative impact on the affordability of social security. As you know, it's already under pressure. We are therefore losing a great deal of tax revenue that is needed for our social security. In the 2019 hearings on the affordability of social security, many experts advocated tackling excesses and a comprehensive exercise on this impact. Moreover, there is still a great deal of uncertainty in our legislation about these extra-legal benefits. We need to get rid of it. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, are you working on the exercise of identifying the impact of the extra-legal benefits on the affordability of social security? Do you work with the Minister of Work for this purpose? Have you asked for advice from the social partners or the management committee of the RSZ? Will you include in this exercise the legislative proposals that have already been tabled, including my own on the cafeteria plans? Will you also deliver these legislative proposals to the experts involved in this exercise? Of course, we can already seek advice ourselves by means of an arrangement, but if you are already doing that exercise, I think it is important not to do any duplication of work. It is essential that we make employees sufficiently aware of the impact of extra-legal benefits on their pensions. What role do you think the government can play in this? What role does the government have to play, and what role does it have to play for other partners such as employers, trade unions, social secretariats? What are the minimum information requirements today and how can this be improved? What do you want to do about the information to improve that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic576x.u13	Since the RSZ does not have data on benefits to which no employer contribution or special contributions are due, SD Worx was commissioned in 2017 to carry out an initial study, with the aim of identifying the different current alternative forms of remuneration. In 2018 SD Worx was commissioned to deepen this study. This second part of the study also aimed to evaluate the various forms of remuneration and to extrapolate them as far as possible to the entire population of paid workers subject to Belgian social security in the private sector. In that study, data from 2019 were reported. This study was, of course, also discussed in the RSZ Management Committee. Meanwhile, at the request of the social partners, SD Worx, in cooperation with the RSZ, will update this evaluation annually over the next three years. I asked the RSZ to study a legislative proposal with a view to a possible adaptation of the existing rules on alternative forms of remuneration for which no social contributions are due. I agree with you that it is important for workers to be informed about the impact of extra-legal benefits on their pensions. In my opinion, the workers' organisations are already taking up this role today. Whether the Federal Pension Service can also play a sensitizing role here is a question for my colleague from Pensions, Mrs Lalieux. I'll get her your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic576x.u14	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is indeed important that we continue to work on this issue. You are apparently doing this for the coming years with SD Worx. It is good to update that study, but it is also important to do something with the input we can get from it. I would also recommend that your cabinet also review the reports of the hearings we have had here with the experts on social security and have the proposals they have made in committee also reviewed by the RSZ. There are proposals and issues that can be useful in working on the affordability of social security. Thank you also for bringing my bill on cafeteria plans into your work and for having the RSZ watched. I will ask another question about this at an appropriate time to know what the outcome is. In the meantime, I think we should work on sensitisation. We talked earlier about the company cars. For some, a company car is inevitable, not for others and perhaps other options can be considered, especially if there are such important effects on the pension. The problem is that people don't always know.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic576x.u15	Mr Minister, I will be brief. It is a clarification of the plan for people with disabilities that we discussed in this committee this morning.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic576x.u16	This concerns in particular access to disability insurance for persons with disabilities. You know that, under the legislation, three conditions must be met in order to be recognised as unfit for work in respect of employee benefit insurance. Any efficacy must be discontinued. Secondly, this must be the direct consequence of the onset or worsening of injuries or functional disorders. Thirdly, those disorders should lead to a reduction in earning capacity to a third or less than a third. There must therefore be an incapacity of at least 66%. The recognition of incapacity for work requires a causal link between the onset or worsening of injuries or functional disorders on the one hand and the cessation of all work on the other. That requirement of causality was introduced in the definition of incapacity for work by Article 8 of Royal Decree No. 122 of 23 March 1982 and has been applicable since 1 April 1982. The aim at the time was to exclude from the benefit insurance scheme persons whose earning capacity had already been seriously affected at the time of their entry into the labour market and in fact had never been fit for work. Since then, benefit insurance has ceased to pay benefits for the cessation of an activity resulting from injuries or functional impairments which already existed before the status of beneficiary in that insurance was acquired. Since then, this provision has been the dividing line between the benefit insurance scheme and the compensation scheme for people with disabilities. The notion of pre-existing status was also introduced in the case law and the doctrine of law from that time on. There is a pure pre-existing situation in which the insured person never has a earning ability of more than one third and this because of a congenital condition or condition which gradually develops in the youth years and makes it impossible for the person concerned to pursue a professional activity. In this case, even a worsening of the state of health, which means that an already very much reduced earning capacity is completely lost, does not give rise to entitlement to sickness benefit. I refer to a judgment of the Court of Cassation of March 1986. In this context, reference can also be made to the judgment of the Court of Cassation of 1 October 1990. The Court held at that time that recognition of incapacity for work cannot be obtained if, at the time of the interruption of work, the state of health of the worker concerned does not deteriorate compared to that of the worker at the start of the employment, either by the occurrence of a new condition or by the worsening of an existing condition. In short, an insured person cannot be recognised as unfit for work if his or her earning ability on entering the labour market had already been reduced to one third or less than one third, or if her or his or her health status has not deteriorated in relation to her or his condition prior to entry into the labour market. This may be the case with a congenital condition, e.g. severe epilepsy or weakness, or due to a condition that has developed during childhood, e.g. paralysis, juvenile arthritis, autism spectrum disorders, schizophrenia. In most cases, they are insured persons who have never worked and who, under the system of unemployment regulation as a school leavers, have joined the benefit insurance scheme or who have only been engaged in so many sporadic professional activities for a short period of time, who have worked exclusively in a protected environment under a special social status. Insured persons with a prior condition which cannot be recognised as unfit for work within the meaning of Article 100 (1) of the Coordinated Law of 14 July 1994 on account of their previous disability may, in principle, be eligible for a benefit under the legislation on disability benefits, since they have in fact never been suitable for the general labour market. Now, for many people it is frustrating that they have gone to work despite their illness, even enough days to get access to disability insurance in normal circumstances, but there for all the reasons I have listed remain excluded. Actually, I think that concept of "pre-existing state" is rather obsoleet. In my view, those who have been professionally active, and especially if the volume of benefits meets the normal period of internship, should be entitled to benefits under disability insurance. We must be careful, however, and look carefully at whether these people are actually better off financially if they are to open up a right under health insurance. This is not always the case, for example, in the current rules on integration with only a limited exemption from own resources, where replacement income is concerned. That is why I asked the RIZIV to draw up the profiles of the people whose right is denied on the basis of their previous condition, such as the type of benefit they receive today, how their income would evolve after the opening of a right to disability benefit etc. You also had questions about optional insurance. Private insurers and mutual assistance insurance companies are subject to the same legislation and regulations because of the level-playingfield principle. The following rules are important in relation to the problem. If the symptoms of a disease have not yet manifested themselves at the time of the conclusion of the insurance, neither a private insurer nor a mutual assistance company can refuse insurance cover. If the symptoms of a disease have already manifested at the time of conclusion of an agreement and the disease has not been diagnosed within two years, the unintentional concealment or incorrect disclosure may no longer be invoked after the expiry of that two-year period from the date of entry into force of the agreement. A candidate insured person who suffers from a chronic illness or disability and who has not yet reached the age of 65 is entitled to sickness insurance provided that all costs incurred by the illness or disability which existed at the time of conclusion of the contract may be excluded from the coverage. The premium must be that which would be charged to the same person if he or she was not chronically ill or disabled. The insurance offered by the mutualist sector has been subject to the same laws and regulations as private insurers only since 1 January 2012. Before that, they were subject to separate legislation. Unlike private insurers, they were obliged to provide, although limited, coverage for previous diseases or diseases. This change in the legislation therefore meant, inter alia, that the insurance products offered by the mutualist sector should no longer provide coverage for pre-existing diseases or diseases. In order to encourage solidarity with persons with a pre-existing disease or disease, an exemption from the annual fee of 9,25 % for health insurance was provided provided that the insurance provides a high level of protection. This means, inter alia, that the insurance must be accessible up to the age of at least 65 years. In addition, the insurance must also cover the costs incurred as a result of a pre-existing disease, condition or condition. The only exception allowed is the exclusion or limitation of supplements when staying in a single room. The pre-existing disease or disease shall not give rise to any increase in the premium or limitation of the guarantees or to reduced compensation. Finally, no waiting period of more than 12 months should be provided. Both private insurers and VMOBs can benefit from this exemption, provided that all conditions are met.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic576x.u17	Minister, I see that your teams like precision and completeness. Maybe we could ask for some synthesis.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic576x.u18	Madam President, you speak to me of my reply. Minister, what the President says is true. Thank you for your answer. You always give very thorough answers. Some of your colleagues are less specialised and do the opposite. Having heard your full answer, I think it would have been easier if you had pointed out that the wording in the Disability Action Plan could be improved. The current wording gives an impression, which you rejected in your reply and which is not at all the intention of that phrase in the plan. Perhaps you could have said that in two sentences. Thank you for your answer. I have now summarized it myself.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic576x.u19	Madam President, I refer to my written question, which is very clear and comprehensive. I can also read them, but I will not, as there are no listeners or audiences today and the minister said last time that people cannot follow. I'll follow him in there. Today people can't follow anyway and so I can keep it shorter by referring to the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic576x.u20	Madam President, Minister, I would first like to return to the very comprehensive answer to the previous oral question. The advantage of the comprehensive answer is not only that we know the synthesis, but also the reason why the synthesis is there. So, Minister, I pay tribute to you, because you always answer questions that we ask very comprehensively and punctually. I repeat that many of your colleagues do not. It's annoying sometimes. My current question will be very brief. It is about a sustainable arrangement for association work, which was extended by the end of 2020 for a year for a number of sub-sectors, in which there was actually already association work. In the meantime, the NAR has issued opinions. Mr Minister, I would like to ask the following very briefly. What is your appreciation of the NAR's advice, which proposes, among other things, to convert the quota of 25 permitted days a year to an hourly quota of 300 hours a year? I would also like to know your appreciation for the rest of the opinion. What further steps will you take as part of the development of a definitive arrangement for the work of associations? After all, time and the clock continue unforgivingly. In the meantime we are already at the beginning of autumn, after which a little bit of winter follows, before the year is over. Thirdly, how long can we expect the new sustainable arrangement to take place? By 'we', of course, I mean not only us, Members of Parliament, but also, above all, the people involved in the union work.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic576x.u21	Minister, much has already been said by Mr Anseuw. As he mentioned, in May 2021 you announced a temporary extension of the temporary arrangement for the association work. There were some discussions in committee at the time. The statute was opened up to a wide range of artistic and sociocultural activities. I have certainly not forgotten: you indicated at that time that it would be a temporary solution pending the final settlement that would be drawn up. As you know, we of the PVDA have serious doubts about association work. In the field of social protection, that goes completely below the bar. I have the following questions for you. Are you still considering extending the temporary arrangement beyond 2021? Or do you confirm that you will continue to work on the basis of the NAR recommendation? What is your timing for the announced final solution? Will a definitive solution apply outside the sport sector? Finally, will the workers concerned have all the usual social rights in terms of guaranteed pay, maternity leave and holiday pay?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic576x.u22	My question fits perfectly with that of the previous speakers. I am curious to hear your answer, Minister, because this is, of course, a file that is very close to my heart.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic576x.u23	Madam President, I have indeed taken note of Opinion No. 2236 of the National Labour Council of 13 July 2021. In that opinion, the social partners unanimously made the basic choice to enrol certain functions in the sport and socio-cultural sector from 2022 in Article 17 of the Social Security Decision of 28 November 1969. Therefore, they do not want to perpetuate the temporary arrangement for association work in our Law of 24 December 2020. The choice of Article 17 means that the organisations and individuals concerned are regarded as employers and employees. However, if certain conditions are met, they are excluded from the application of social security, in which case neither organisations nor workers have to pay social contributions, but workers do not build up social rights either. The social partners in the NAR did not propose to introduce a solidarity contribution. That is also not provided for in the current Article 17. The choice of Article 17 also means that labour law and normal tax rules apply. Income from activities under Article 17 shall be globalised with other occupational income and progressively taxed. There is also a need to deduct corporate withholding tax. Of course, my fellow ministers Van Peteghem and Dermagne are responsible for these issues. My collaborators and their colleagues in the policy cells of Ministers Dermagne and Van Peteghem have already consulted on this in response to the NAR's advice. The three policy cells also consult with representatives of the sports and socio-cultural sectors. They took note of the comments made on the NAR's opinion. As far as the declaration is concerned, I can tell you that the RSZ has examined how the declaration and control of the hours worked can be as simple as possible. The RSZ proposes to arrange the declaration via the Dimona application, as is already mandatory within the current Article 17. Employers will be able to indicate the number of hours per quarter, as with student labour. In order to respond to the NAR's advice, the RSZ also proposes to develop an application allowing employers and employees to monitor the number of hours worked. For this purpose, too, the RSZ will base itself on an application that exists for student work. Organisations will not be obliged to make a quarterly declaration of wage and working time data via the DmfA. In the coming days and weeks, on the basis of that opinion, we will discuss all aspects in the bosom of the government in such a way that we have a structural solution in time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic576x.u24	Thank you, Minister, for your answer, which is, above all, a partial answer. You say that you and colleagues in the government are working hard on it and that we will have a settlement by the end of the year, which can then become final. Hopefully, that arrangement will last and will not be the subject of destruction by the Constitutional Court. I do not think so when I see that the social partners have found each other in this solution. In fact, I made that proposal to you at the time, namely to convert the 25-day scheme into hours. I am glad that you, as well as the social partners, have started to work on this and that we will now work on it for the work of association. It will be very important that this remains administratively simple. It is good to consider developing an app, which is easy to use, as it also exists for student work. And it is also a good thing that association workers who do indeed work only a limited number of hours a week, or only in a particular season, such as for accompaniment of summer vacation camps, can be covered by this scheme without the social and tax burdens that apply to normal workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic576x.u25	Minister, from your answer I conclude that it is at least your ambition to have a settlement by the end of this year. If that ambition is also achieved in good time, it will be one merit of the scheme, namely that it is there on time. As far as the content is concerned, it is still a little waiting. I am therefore eagerly looking forward to what this arrangement will look like and then we can come back to it in detail.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic576x.u26	Mr Minister, I look forward very much to the further development of this dossier. But when I look at the common thread, I notice that we are finally rid of this fake statute, if I am in favour of it, and that the union work is rid of it. In this respect, I am waiting for you to fill everything out. As you know, social security is our dada so that these people can work in a dignified manner and not with this fake statute as has been the case for many years.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic576x.u27	Minister, it will be necessary to continue working on this. With regard to the NAR's opinion, it is necessary to consider how this could be further developed. I'd like to give you some more concerns. As far as Article 17 is concerned, there is little in the opinion as to how this is to be dealt with by tax. A further concern is the administrative burden that this may entail. I hear you're working on that and I think we should keep it to a minimum. After all, these are people who, outside their jobs, offer an important added value to society, not only in the field of sport but also in the field of culture. Article 17 is based purely on an employment relationship between employer and employee. If this is applied effectively, it must not result in all these associations having to pay more heavy burdens. We would like to see attention paid to this. There is a unanimous opinion on Article 17, but I have seen in the opinion of the NAR that the opinions of employers' organisations and workers' organisations differ. We must therefore ensure that we are working on a constructive proposal within this legislation. I also hope that we will be involved in its elaboration.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic576x.u28	My question concerns the extension of Mr Robben's mandate as administrator-general at the Crossroads Bank of Social Security, the KSZ. That extension was approved by the Council of Ministers on 10 September, on your proposal. However, Mr Robben is a very controversial figure because of the many mandates he holds. For example, he is not only administrator-general of the KSZ, but also of eHealth, he is chairman of SMALS and also has a mandate with the Data Protection Authority. These things seem difficult to reconcile. Similarly, it is very difficult to understand that his mandate is being renewed. The European Commission also sees possible problems there and an investigation has been launched. With this extension, Mr Robben began his umpteenth term as administrator-general of the KSZ, which he himself set up in 1991. After the end of this mandate, he will be in charge of the KSZ for 36 years. Is there no conflict there with the principle of temporaryity of mandates? At what times did an evaluation of his mandate as an administrator general take place? By who? What was the result of that? Was an evaluation made before his new appointment? If so, by whom? What competences were evaluated? What was the result of that? What procedure should be followed for the appointment of this post? Has there been a call for other candidates? If so, what were the required competences? How many candidates came forward? Has a risk analysis been carried out with regard to the continuity and maintenance of knowledge? So is there a problem when Mr Robben is no longer able to fill this post for some reason? Has a risk analysis been carried out with regard to the entanglement of interests and the concentration of knowledge and power? Can you explain that? Is this healthy, in your opinion, in a democratic society? How many hats do you think an administrator general can wear? What happens to the investigation initiated by the European Commission? What stage is this investigation at? When can a conclusion be expected? How do you estimate Mr Robben's role within the Data Protection Authority? Do you think there's a problem there? What impact does a possible negative conclusion of the European Commission have on its functioning?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic576x.u29	Minister, on your proposal, together with the Minister of Labour Mr Dermagne, the Council of Ministers recently approved a draft royal decree renewing, for a period of six years, the position of deputy head of Mr Frank Robben at the Banque Carrefour de la Sécurité Sociale. The BCSS is the largest personal data platform in the State, allowing the exchange of social data for the entire Belgian population. Qualified as a Belgian Big Brother by Wilfried magazine, the man with eighteen terms, with an annual salary of between 307,000 and 411,000 euros according to Cumuleo's latest information, is particularly contested. As revealed by the press on several occasions, Mr. Robben cumulates conflicts of interest and is on every stage of data management in our country. He is therefore the head of BCSS, and also the head of eHealth, the equivalent of BCSS for health data. He is a member of the Knowledge Centre of the Data Protection Authority, which advises on draft and proposed legislation on data transfer, and thus controls the BCSS and eHealth platforms. He is the leader of Smals which provides all the hardware and computer and software administration. In particular, he had been noticed for a real raid on the State Security, where he was about to take hard drives to the nose and beard of the agents. It is the Information Security Committee which usurps the powers of the legislator in the field of data protection. In short, Mr. Robben is the orchestra man, the champion of multitasking. Controller, controlled, seller, buyer, legislator. And it can be said that he enjoys a certain complacency of the traditional parties, when you see your exit in the press proposing to erect him a statue. This situation destroys data protection in our country and, rightly, completely kills the confidence of our citizens. Many experts from civil society, whistleblowers, have been firing the alarm bell for more than a year now to denounce the Robben system. Some even speak of killing our democratic system. Emmanuel André said of him, "We're all caught in his canvas." We're talking about a system worthy of a police state. It has been going on for years and it cannot be said that the reaction of the political world is energetic. For the past year, and despite threats of prosecution by the European Commission, no solution seems to have been found. In this context, this renewal, decided by the government without any democratic debate, raises a real question. Could you, minister, give us a detailed account of how this decision was made? What procedure has been followed for this renewal? Has a call for applications been launched to identify the best candidates for the BCSS Director position? If not, why? If so, how many applications have been submitted? On what basis was Mr Robben retained?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic576x.u30	Madam President, the appointment of staff members to the public social security institutions is governed by the Royal Decree of 30 November 2003 on the designation, exercise and weighting of management functions as well as the designation and exercise of staff and management functions in the public social security institutions. Since the adoption of this Order, Mr. Robben has been appointed Chief Executive Officer of the Carrefour de la Sécurité Sociale Bank (BCSS) for three six-year periods. He has already performed this function with mandates from 2003 to 2009, from 2009 to 2015 and from 2015 to 2021. The current mandate thus expires on 30 September 2021. The Royal Decree contains no provisions on a maximum number of terms of office. The evaluation of Mr Robben's mandate was carried out in accordance with the provisions of Article 17 of this Royal Decree of 2003. Mr Robben made his own assessment at that time. The social partners and the management committee have proposed that Mr Robben be given the term 'excellent'. On the basis of this proposal from the management committee and an evaluation meeting with Mr Robben, my colleague Mr Dermagne and I decided to follow the management committee's proposal and to give the term 'excellent'. Mr Robben has once again applied for the same position. As he was awarded the "excellent" designation and applied for a new term of office, Mr. Robben meets the conditions for the renewal of his term as deputy head of Carrefour Bank. Article 24 of the Royal Decree of 30 November 2003 mentioned above states that the mandate holder is deemed in this case to have satisfied the comparative selection without the need for a new selection procedure. The Council of Ministers approved the renewal of its function on 10 September 2021. There were also questions about the Data Protection Authority. The Secretary of State for Privacy, my colleague Mathieu Michel, naturally follows the European Commission's investigation into the operation of the Data Protection Authority. In order to ensure the independence of the Data Protection Authority, she was assigned to the Chamber of Representatives. The Board shall also appoint the members of the Data Protection Authority. The debate on the reform of the Data Protection Authority therefore belongs to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic576x.u31	Minister, your answer was very concise.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic576x.u32	Mrs Gijbels, I had to be more concise, I was told.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic576x.u33	On the contrary, Minister, I have honoured you for your detailed answers, which are always very punctual.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic576x.u34	Mr Minister, yesterday in the Committee on Health, I noticed that you sometimes do not go into the interesting passages of my questions. In this case, I am concerned about continuity. You didn't go into that at all. In my view, this is far too little in the debate. After all, what happens if he is suddenly unable to take up his mandate? It's up to the government to watch over that. After all, he is the one who set up and invented the Data Protection Authority and who has been there for all these years. That's not a healthy situation. Nor can there be any other suitable person in a modern society where data protection and data exchange are more widespread than many years ago. That knowledge is definitely there with many people these days. I understand that certain prescribed procedures have gone through. Self-evaluation or an evaluation interview, although an excellent evaluation score is given, is not a healthy thing. It is strange that only two groups are asking questions about this today. There is certainly a conflict of interest. We're not the only ones worried about that. The European Commission is also concerned about this. I am also asking a great many questions about the lack of transparency in the appointment. Minister, I had hoped that you could have put your foot in the door more to change things.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic576x.u35	Madam President, I would like to join my colleague. I am also surprised that only two political groups are asking the question on this very important subject. Fortunately, minister, I was sitting here listening to your answer because it shows all the disconnection you have with this subject. You explained to us that you renewed Mr. Frank Robben on the basis of a "self-assessment". First, it makes a self-assessment, which was considered excellent, and then it is evaluated on this basis. Mr. Robben does everything, even the assessments. It's a first thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic576x.u36	What a ridicule reaction that is!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic576x.u37	Mr Minister, what is ridiculous is that he is being re-elected!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic576x.u38	We ask all leading officials, as is done in every organization, and I hope that in yours too, remember Mao Zedong and self-criticism, to evaluate themselves critically. A further evaluation by others will follow.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic576x.u39	In any case, this shows somewhat the climate in which the operation takes place. You mentioned an excellent evaluation. Your colleague, Mr Dermagne, has given me the same answer, which, in my view, is amazing because in your "excellent" assessment you do not speak through conflicts of interest or Mr Robben's eighteen terms of office. This is not included in your assessment. You are not talking about the many contradictions with regard to the protection of our privacy, nor about the European Commission, which is hitting our fingers because we are not complying with GDPR regulations, especially because of Mr Robben's duties. You find it quite normal to renew someone who puts our democratic state at risk, especially because of conflicts of interest that concern the very important aspect of people's personal data. This man is both a controller, a controlled man, a buyer, a salesman, and he manages everything. I am even certain that Mr. Robben is not completely innocent of the "excellent" assessment. It has been known to the general public for a year – even if it has lasted for years – and there has been no reaction from the political world, except to renew Mr Robben on the basis of an "excellent" assessment. I really wonder if you have any power on the matter or if Mr. Robben decides in your place. This is a very worrying point, Minister, and defending this renewal here today is even more dangerous and worrying in my view. The first thing you should do as the head of these institutions is to put in place a mechanism to prevent these events from happening again, and you are doing the opposite. This is not how our citizens' personal data will be protected. People don't trust it anymore, which they're absolutely right about. Your politics and your attitude make them right. This attitude, if it is not changed, leads us straight into the wall. Whether you like it or not, there is a conflict of interest over Mr. Robben and there is a need to put things in place to put an end to it. You talked about Secretary of State Mathieu Michel. I've interrogated him several times. Do you know what he's saying to me? He replied that he was not competent. Your skill leads you to re-engage someone who is in a conflict of interest, who does not respect our laws, and who puts them in danger. I find it scandalous and even more scandalous to come here to defend this renewal.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic576x.u40	Mr Anseew, I do not understand what the purpose of your speech is. We are in an oral question-and-answer session. There is normally no reason, because this is not a topical debate. You don't have to intervene in the exchange here. I don't know what you want to do. I'm listening.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic576x.u41	Madam President, I would like to speak briefly. I note that in these oral questions and interplays the Minister takes the liberty, and apparently is also given the permission, of interrupting Mr Boukili, but shows less enthusiasm to answer Mrs Gijbels' questions. While the second is his job and the first isn't. I note that and would like it to be included in the report which I deeply regret. The Minister has missed the opportunity to speak when he would have done better, and he has missed the opportunity to remain silent if he would have done better.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic576x.u42	It seems to me that this arbitration is done either by the voice of the colleagues who reply to the answers and can indicate whether they are satisfied with these answers or by a decision of the Presidency. I do not see where this could be located other than in these two options. Let's move on! Since Mr. Boukili is finished, there is no follow-up to his inquiry.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic576x.u43	Yes, I do not table a motion, because I did it yesterday.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic576x.u44	So we can continue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic576x.u45	Mr Minister, this question was tabled a long time ago. I understand that there is something new to be learned in the meantime, but I would like to ask my question anyway because not all the questions have been answered in the various media communications in the past few hours. My question concerns various corona aid measures introduced by the current federal government and by the previous federal government in current cases since the start of the corona crisis. Most of these aid measures would normally end at the end of this month. It has to be said that many of these measures have been useful, especially at the start of the corona crisis. There hasn't been a lot of fine-meshed work. I fully understand that, especially at the beginning of the crisis, this fineness could not be achieved because, above all, we had to act very quickly. Afterwards there was room for more fineness, but it didn't actually come. Meanwhile, several government members have announced their intentions for a possible extension until the end of this year. My questions concern the measures that fall within your competence. What is the state of play regarding the possible extension of the corona aid measures? What is the ratio to make one or the other decision? So: extend or not extend. How can we reconcile the possible extension of the measures with the ambition of allowing our economy to regain its momentum in a natural way? Can you clarify what measures may or may not be renewed, under what conditions, and what reasons?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic576x.u46	Minister, I am going to ask a slightly more specific question about a particular sector. Many sectors, of course, still need help. I wanted to insist on a particular sector, culture, arts and events, because it is obvious that for this sector the recovery will take place in a much slower and more complex way. The recovery will be slower because we know that programming is rather timid at the moment, given that we are not immune to the continuation and new events at Codeco. It is understandable that it is not easy to venture into larger or more ambitious event organisations. The recovery will also be more complex because there is a huge anticipated and already perceptible traffic jam. Indeed, there have been many pending creations and today we cannot guarantee an optimal diffusion of the entire creativity of the last two years. Those who might think they could rework fast enough are not going to rework very quickly. Minister, do you intend to extend the specific measures adopted for this particularly upset and coerced sector since the beginning of this crisis? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic576x.u47	You ask the question at a time when political decision-making is taking place. So I have to be a little careful, since we haven't really knocked this off in the Council of Ministers. We are focusing on the selective continuation of a number of measures, small and large, until the end of this year, but certainly no longer. Let me give you some main points: the lower VAT on mouth masks, hand gels would be held, as we keep telling people to use mouth masks and hand gel in a number of circumstances. We are focusing on maintaining a special system of temporary unemployment for workers until the end of the year, as well as a right to bridge the crisis for self-employed workers, but with a rather strict criterion as to the loss of turnover that must be suffered in order to qualify for it. There is also specific support for rail transport, which is linked to our international position and measures taken elsewhere. Finally, we do not want to stop social measures taken immediately. These are the big axles. I would rather not give more details on the one hand because it has not yet been knocked off in the Council of Ministers and, on the other hand, because I would prefer to be able to say in detail on a number of points what has been decided very precisely, but some of these elements still need to be worked out. However, I believe that this debate has been going on in the government for a long time and that we are now on the same page. We will therefore very soon fill in all the details in the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic576x.u48	Mr Minister, in order to be consistent in the government, you remain extremely vague as to what measure is being extended under what condition or not. It remains with a list of a number of major axes of corona measures that have been in force for more than a year. How they are extended, we obviously cannot know that yet, even though everyone is on the same page, isn't it? That way, it's hard to debate. I note that our economy is recovering much faster than expected. The first quarter of this year sales in our country already increased above the level of turnover of two years ago, i.e. precorona crisis. There are also better export figures in our country before the crisis. It is also expected that the European economy will do better by the end of the year than before the corona crisis. The corona crisis measures have proved their worth and I note that our economy no longer needs support wheels to drive on, quite the contrary. In fact, if the measures become less effective for many sectors, they are unnecessary today, they suppress the dynamics of the economic fabric, dynamics that create new businesses and disappear existing ones. I also assume that after the corona crisis, a number of sectors will never recover the size of the crisis by, for example, a new way of working. There is also no clarity today about the requested fineness. If it does not appear in a phasing-out scenario and the corona measures are fully extended for all business sectors, then there will be no sound economy, and that is not in the interest of the public authorities, nor of the employees, nor of the employers. I have the impression that the crisis cannot last long enough for some people and that they prefer to continue it by maintaining corona aid measures, which have become superfluous for most sectors. For the third quarter, the opportunity has been missed, but at least from the fourth quarter onwards, I am in favour of phasing out the measures, so that, without additional corona support measures, we will give the economy extra space and oxygen from 1 January onwards. I think it is extremely important that we return to normality. The reality is what it is, otherwise we will maintain the crisis longer than necessary. Moreover, in normal circumstances, when the temporary unemployment system is abolished, there is still the possibility of economic unemployment for the companies and sectors that need it. So it's definitely not a black and white story. Hence my plea.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic576x.u49	Minister, I asked Minister Dermagne the same question yesterday. I have the impression that he is using more of the Coué method or self-persuasion since he has shown a real willingness to extend a number of measures, particularly those in favour of the cultural and artistic sector. I therefore assume that you are taking this approach as a matter of caution. I hope that you are supported in the government to consider these workers who are in an extremely critical period and who should simply be given some support before the end of the year to enable them to redeploy more effectively from next year.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic576x.u50	If the Minister is okay with it, I refer to the text of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic576x.u51	You ask for the cause of the high number of long-term sick. In addition, you ask what will be the role of the return coaches. I don't really use that word myself, but it was used in the press. I'd rather talk about back-to-work co-ordinators. The idea is that these people do not take over the work that mediators at the VDAB, trainers in training agencies, business doctors or personnel services have to do. They need to think about adapting work. It is not intended that these back-to-work coordinators will do so all by themselves. The aim is to guide people into the opportunities available and in particular to the available services, such as the VDAB, training bodies and others. Return coaches is a rather unfortunate expression for what we have in mind. Organising a corps of people who will coordinate to put people back on the road to work as soon as possible, to the extent that it is realistic and appropriate to the situation of the people, is indeed part of a broader whole. That alone is not enough. In the foreseeable future, perhaps in mid-October, we will have a draft law for discussion in this committee. That's in the Council of State now. This draft law revises a number of procedures applicable to long-term sickness benefits. So we'll review some procedures. Mr Dermagne will also come up with an initiative to review a number of procedures in his areas of competence. What I have announced is not the end of any additional initiatives we would take. I do not rule out any further initiatives. Even what I have now explained to the media following a working visit is more than putting some coordinators to work with the sickness funds. We want to introduce a system that ensures that everyone who receives a certificate of incapacity for work knows that it is actually a signal to launch a number of actions. Among other things, there is the obligation to fill out a questionnaire, which collects information that should allow for a better assessment of the situation of the people. There are also other actions, which are immediately looking forward to integrating people back. This plan also includes the fact that, among other things, we collect the information that we collect through the questionnaire "Just as soon as possible" in the right place. We are going to invest in processes and also in ICT. We also want these back-to-work coordinators to really invest in setting up a network of prevention services, employers, occupational doctors, regional mediation services and all their partners. So there is a lot more than just 40 people, and later 60, putting them to work with the health insurance funds. We also want a systematic registration of actions and results. We will also follow up the sickness funds in the course of the actions of the return-to-work coordinators. I have summarized it very briefly, but it concerns more than a few people at work in the sickness funds. There are many reasons why more and more people are long-term ill. I'm not going to say anything very original: for starters, the population is growing. There is, of course, also a strong ageing population within a growing population and, of course, the decline due to illness is also greater among older people. The risk of disability peaks between 60 and 64 years. The measures taken to make early retirement more difficult also play a part in this. And in the future, the increase in the statutory retirement age will certainly also play a role. What is probably going on is the fact that we have more women in the labour market, often in sectors where there may be serious stress, such as the healthcare sector. Moreover, because of our, unfortunately unjust, role patterns, women are often more responsible than men for the combination of work and family life. So there are a lot of factors. We also see some increase in the dropout due to disability among younger people. What you are saying is that if work is experienced by people as workable and doable, then there will also be less failure. There's a very broad agenda. I totally agree with that. You yourself raised an important point in your question, namely whether it is a question of sending people back to their previous employer or whether they are also looking for opportunities with other employers sufficiently quickly. The answer is the last, and I would like to stress once again that these back-to-work coordinators will not intercede on their own. That's a task for the VDAB. In fact, we think that we should be able to start looking for another employer sufficiently quickly because the employer from which we come may well be an employer in whom it is very difficult to make the necessary adjustments or because there are other reasons why it is more appropriate to seek another employer. One of the elements of the process, and we will certainly discuss it when the draft law comes before us, and I assume that the work that Mr Dermagne will be presenting will also have to do with that, is the following. To what extent is one able to quickly orient one on the fact that the former employer is not likely to offer the solution? This means, among other things, investing in training, giving time for new training and mediation to other employers. I would like to stress once again that the back-to-work coordinator is not the mediator, but the one who has to put people on the right track. I do not know if we agree on your last remark, but the question is absolutely pertinent. I hope that we will be able to go into this much more thoroughly in the light of the draft law. I am now trying to abide by the rule of brevity. This is actually an ambitious plan, but what has been said in the public about the back-to-work coordinators is actually just a component of a broader story. I would like to stress that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic576x.u52	I'm gonna have to keep it brief. That won't be easy. But I'm gonna try anyway. Minister, you know that I have been a trade unionist for more than 25 years. Actually, what you want to create is just an employment cell. Only it is an employment cell at the hospital that makes it clear that there are other things in life than with the current employer. I do not see, and I do not think you will see, how we can increase 13% of employment again with the current employer in this way. This is simply an advisory body, an employment cell, which helps people to get to what they can. Let me give you the example of a 58-year-old construction worker whose back is completely broken. What you are creating now is someone at the hospital who will make it clear to that man how good he is, that there are things other than construction and that he will receive training. No one says what his work skills are until he enters the labour market effectively. Believe me, I worked on the employment cells after Ford closed down. The only difference is that it was a closure at the time. These are people who have worked hard with an employer day in and day out. There must be something, Minister, where this employer is pointed out by his responsibilities. Cruly said, someone has always worked hard for his employer. He's been busted, and someone at the hospital says, "Get some work." Do you have to pay him more? Probably more than any other, younger, employee. Then you can throw that man away without saying anything. What's to keep the employer from paying him off? Find work in another place! Frankly, Minister, those are not the profiteers. It used to be a heavy occupation and those people could go on a bridge pension and had a safety net, but now they have nothing. Those people have worked hard throughout their lives, but now they are on the streets without notice and with perhaps training and a course to be followed. In the last few years before their retirement, they will still be covered by the fall in unemployment benefit if the wife receives a benefit. They will simply end up in poverty. It's as simple as that. They've worked hard their whole lives for that. That is the reality. You know I'm right about that. However, we do not see that part anywhere in the project. If you will make an evaluation of this later, you will clearly see that this is not workable.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic576x.u53	Mr Colebunders referred to the fact that some critical evaluations had been made of the system of reduction of contributions during the first recruitment. He's referring to the Court of Auditors and the Planning Bureau. He also referred to an agreement reached in the management committee of the RSZ. I have already referred to this on previous occasions in this committee. I would like to repeat that. There have indeed been a number of critical evaluations of that system. Within the government, we'll look into that. Hopefully there will be a decision within the government as soon as possible. However, I do not have it today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic576x.u54	The highest gross monthly wage to which the unlimited reduction was applied exceeded EUR 3 million. This represents a reduction of almost 2 million euros from a quarter, for one employer. The situation keeps going on and on. It's really hopeless. The social negotiators agreed on a different approach before the summer. Above all, social security is the cathedral of the working class. It is incomprehensible that the previous government chose to let that money flow into the biggest pockets. We are now a long year away, and the sad thing is that this government is simply continuing the policy of rogueness. In the end, I had really hoped that we would have a change in this. These things make for the gaps in social security.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic576x.u55	I refer to the written record of my oral question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic576x.u56	Mr Colebunders, at present it is not possible, on the basis of the available data in the scientific literature for specific professions, to establish that occupational exposure to SARS-CoV-2 may be significantly higher than that of the general population, with the exception of those caregivers covered by code 1.404.03. However, this condition of increased exposure is one of the foundations for the definition of an occupational disease, as opposed to a disease of common law. An outbreak of infections in a given work area during a defined period may indicate that there is an exposure to SARS-CoV-2 inherent in the exercise of the professional activity, at that time, in that area, where the exposure level is significantly higher than that of the general population. In this hypothesis, the virtual impossibility of proving, in an individual case, that the disease was effectively contracted in the context of the pursuit of a professional activity constitutes an important obstacle to the recognition as an occupational disease under Article 30a of the abovementioned laws, coordinated on 3 June 1970. In order to compensate the worker concerned under the occupational disease insurance scheme, it was therefore necessary to insert a new code 1.404.05 into the list of occupational diseases. In order to do so, it is necessary to define very precisely the circumstances which led to the contamination. The aim is to describe a situation which is certainly linked to an increased risk, since it is not possible to verify accurately on a case-by-case basis whether the contamination has occurred in the workplace. It is scientifically impossible to know where each infection has taken place. Therefore, the RB describes the situation of an increased risk on the basis of some conditions that together provide sufficient evidence for the existence of a cluster. As you rightly point out, this decision stipulates that an epidemiological link is required to speak of an outbreak, without necessarily restricting itself to workers in the workplace. Other persons such as subcontractors, suppliers, temporary workers, customers may also be part of the outbreak site and thus contribute to the achievement of the five infected cases between which there is an epidemiological link. The order of infection within this group doesn't matter either. Choices have been made for a set of criteria which make it sufficiently plausible that a work-related cluster has occurred. The choice of five infections instead of two is inter alia within the general epidemiological context in our country. COVID-19 can meet anyone in our country. There have already been over 1.2 million confirmed cases. It is conceivable that two colleagues will be infected separately. When five cases are discovered in a group of people who work closely together, this is not a coincidence. It can then be strongly assumed that these infections are related to each other. In addition, it is not our intention to qualify the infection as an occupational disease for every worker who has tested positive. Based on objective criteria, it can only be made as plausible as possible that there is a work-related cluster. In considering whether or not to qualify COOVID-19 as an occupational disease outside the care sector, this decision and the choice of five infections should actually be seen as a compromise between different considerations. Another prerequisite for the design of KB is the existence of an epidemiological link between the infections: if it can be proved that the workers concerned have passed the virus on to each other in the context of their work. This cannot be scientifically proven but can be made acceptable, for example when working conditions are such that they greatly facilitate the transmission of the virus, which implies that it makes the exercise of the professional activity difficult, if not impossible, for example to maintain physical distance or because the workspaces are insufficiently ventilated. Evidence of compliance with the occupational risk exposure condition as set out in the Annex to the Royal Decree of 28 March 1969 may be provided by any legal means. As a social security institution, Fedris will contribute to the collection of the evidence, as for any other application for recognition of an occupational disease received. In particular, Fedris shall inform the applicant of the evidence expected from him and shall itself collect information available elsewhere, in particular from internal and external preventive and occupational medicine services or from the Länder institutions investigating clusters of outbreaks. The Agency will therefore actively cooperate with the competent institutions of the Länder to monitor clusters as well as with occupational health services. One of the prerequisites for the draft decision is at least 5 infections over a period of 14 days. You ask whether the federal government has sufficient data to establish a cluster retrospectively. Now, when a positive molecular test or antigen test is taken in at least five people who work closely together over a period of 14 days, that is a first step to establish a cluster. This can also happen after the end of the period of 14 days. It is up to the doctors concerned to verify that the other conditions are met. The government relies on their expert scientific judgement for this. Cooperation with the relevant Länder and occupational health services will also be important in this area. This brings me to my final point, namely the role of the company doctor in the recognition procedure at Fedris. In order to find out as accurately as possible whether there was indeed a cluster, cooperation with the company doctors is required. Fedris doctors will work with the company doctors, among other things, to evaluate whether the measures in the company, such as mask duty, ventilation and social distancing, have been respected. In this context, I would like to point out that Fedris has already contacted both the internal and external prevention and protection services in order to exchange knowledge and data. What progress has been made on the draft decision? Law changes are required to fully implement the addition of code 05 for clusters. We expect the Council of State's opinion on the amendment in the coming days, after which the draft law will be submitted to the Chamber to deal with it as a matter of urgency. The draft Royal Decree will then be submitted as a matter of urgency to the Council of State for its opinion, after which it will be signed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic576x.u57	Madam President, Minister, I continue to have difficulty with these clusters. You know what I mean. After all, the virus doesn't know where I got it. In one case, I am entitled to "an occupational disease" and in the other case I am not. Let me give you an example. I work in a bakery with a second person. We infect each other. However, my contamination did not come through my colleague. She came through the 300 clients I see on a Sunday morning and I've been on the line of fire during my work. If I am now lucky enough to work in a company with 5,000 employees and there are five infected on those 5,000 workers, then I am entitled to that occupational disease. Where is there any logic in that reasoning? Mr. Secretary, I'm sure it's me. I'm just a simple worker. The reality is, however, that I have had both infections at work. With a police officer or a firefighter, the chance that they have infected each other is not nonexistent, but it will be much smaller than an infection by the people they have had to look up. I know the fire department isn't your department, but times have passed when five firefighters are pulling out. So much has been saved that they only pull out with three or four. The reality is that, when all three of them are infected, they are not eligible for that occupational disease, although they have also been on the frontline during the corona crisis. One is therefore entitled to or entitled to an occupational disease and the other is not. I don't know about that.
