ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic397x.u1	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, the current affairs debate is burning because a few days ago the press echoed new rumours of trafficking in humanitarian visas, particularly within the Iranian community in Belgium, according to a note you have transmitted to the VSSE. Such rumours must be taken seriously, especially after the judicial decisions that followed the Kucam case, which has already undermined and shaken our humanitarian visa system. Without judgment today, being only at the beginning of the information, on such rumours, if they were to prove to be valid, it would be unacceptable to leave such acts unpunished. It would be unbearable to think that some would dare to take advantage of their proximity to certain spheres of power, dare to enrich themselves on the distress of people in danger or endanger access to protection of people who would need it by weakening confidence in an indispensable system, Mr Secretary of State – as you know – to solve emergency situations. Mr Secretary of State, what about these rumours? What measures have you taken in this context? If so, what course of action do you intend to take in this case?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic397x.u2	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, in De Morgen of 4 March, we were able to read about humanitarian visas that would have been issued through an Iranian contact person who is staying in Belgium. I do not go into a number of rumours about which I have no opinion. Since that would not be desirable, I will not explicitly do so. Others, however, were very quick to express a strong opinion on this, without knowing the exact facts. Previously, in the Chamber, both Myria and the DVZ explained the categories of persons to whom humanitarian visas are granted. These include relocating, persons with certain family ties in Belgium and specific, pressing humanitarian situations. This may include, for example, an urgent medical procedure or the funeral of a family member. Another specific situation is that of operations, for example in Rwanda in 1994. We also know that requests for humanitarian visas via a consulate or embassy in which no family ties or pressing humanitarian situation can be demonstrated are normally consistently rejected. Therefore, when humanitarian visas are issued to Iranians who have been in Turkey for some time, outside the framework of resettlement, who do not necessarily meet the requirements of family ties, or those of, for example, urgent medical intervention or the funeral of a family member, that is remarkable at first sight. For the sake of clarity, this can be very well justified but it is remarkable. The granting of humanitarian visas is rightly a discretionary power. However, we believe that if this is not the case, we need at least explicit political consent, with the visas issued in line with a specific objective or policy. Is it true, Mr Secretary of State, that this is a visa for people outside resettlement who do not in themselves fulfil the unwritten condition of family ties or of the urgent humanitarian situation such as urgent medical intervention? What policy are these visas under? How often does it generally happen that visas are issued outside these situations? Do you have any figures on that? Since when did this happen with, for example, this contact? Was it short stay or long stay? What policy were the visas issued through this contact person? Why could it be for these people and for others who offered themselves in the same circumstances at the same embassy or anywhere else? Was the Secretary of State informed of these decisions by the DVZ? Which secretary of state were you or your predecessor? If not, should this not have been done, given the fact that this seems to deviate from the unwritten conditions? So was it a deliberate political decision? What role can contacts in general still play in requesting humanitarian visas through embassies and consulates? Can having a specific contact increase the chances of success?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic397x.u3	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is a very serious matter on the table. The fact that the State Security considered it necessary to communicate this morning, which is extremely exceptional, proves that. Everything shows that a theocratic regime, namely the Iranian regime, is trying to discredit a democratically elected representative of the people in our Parliament. That is an attack on one of the foundations of our democracy, namely the defamation of empty rumors. Mr Secretary of State, you have played a role in this. It's interesting to see what that part was. The reports that have taken place in the media about this have been made on the basis of "I repeat it and quote the Security of the State's "extremely nuanced report', which mentions the possibility and possible likelihood of influence by Iranian services of the news garage with us. You have confirmed to the media, in particular De Morgen, that you have passed the note to the judicial services. So here's what I'd like to know. What was your motivation to play a role in the file? Why didn't you keep your head down in relation to the media in this very picky business? I assume you know the note. Who in your cabinet knew the note? Was the note classified? What are the criteria you used to pass it on to the parquet? What are the criteria you use, in particular, to make public statements about this? Have you done so in similar cases in the past? Were you aware of the State Security Notice that there was possible influence by Iranian services? Did you investigate that yourself? Have you informed the Foreign Minister that there would be a possible influence of foreign services in our democratic process in this respect? What consultation has taken place between your services and any other services on the matter? What criteria does your cabinet use to pass on such notes to the parquet here and in similar cases? Mr Secretary of State, I repeat that the security of the State speaks of "extreme nuance," which is diplomatic language, to indicate that the thinner file is based on rumors. That's exactly what she's saying. Would it not have been wise if you had not facilitated the abuse of the media with superficial journalism by communicating the file yourself through a public communication to the media? Mr Secretary of State, I very much look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic397x.u4	Secretary of State, a few weeks after the verdict in the Kucam case, we are again confronted with suspicions. There is judicial information and it is not our role as politicians to move too far. The fact that these articles may appear in the press shows a lack of transparency and objectiveness of criteria. I know that your office is working on this transparency, but my fear is that if we do not structure a transparent mechanism of "criterisation" and objectivation of the granting of these humanitarian visas, these stories will be repeated. Mr Secretary of State, do you intend to respond to the many criticisms by finally proposing a rapid reform of the system of issuing humanitarian visas, promoting the clarity and transparency of the decisions taken?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic397x.u5	Mr Secretary of State, our group also has questions about the various reports on possible fraud involving humanitarian visas which appeared in the press on 4 March. You were informed about this by the Belgian Security of the State, which heard rumors from the Iranian community in Belgium about a certain S.B., who from 2020 acted as a contact person in certain visa files. Since the suspicions expressed by the press are not entirely unambiguous, I would ask you to clarify them. Mr Secretary of State, what is the precise nature of the suspicions? How many files are we talking about? What next steps will you take in the story?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic397x.u6	Mr Secretary of State, I would like to join in the debate. New cases are being mentioned today in the press on the issue, but in any case it shows that working with intermediaries is particularly vulnerable to abuse, which could lead to suspicions. Mr Secretary of State, could you clarify the allegations made in the press? Do you think there are any irregularities? Did you ask the Foreign Office to investigate the charges? More importantly, in order to make the system transparent again, what steps will you take in the short term? If individual intermediaries are no longer employed, what bodies should be involved in ensuring the objectivity of the procedure? When will you explain your policy in this House?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic397x.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. On Monday 15 February I received a letter from the Security of the State which was also addressed to the Minister of Justice, to the Adviser-General of the Directorate for Consular Affairs and Visa Policy and to the Director-General of the DVZ. It reported rumors that there would be abuses in the granting of humanitarian visas to Iranian opponents and that, in certain cases, money would have been requested. It would be a group of Iranian opponents who stayed in Turkey and came to Belgium with humanitarian visas. Two names of persons were mentioned, in particular Mr Saeed Bashirtash and his wife Darya Safai. I asked for an investigation at the DVZ the same day. The service confirmed that 14 Iranians requested a type D humanitarian visa in September 2020. These are opponents and journalists who were present in Turkey at the time. The visas were granted by the DVZ following individual analyses of the files and after having requested the advice of the State Security. The first element of the rumors was confirmed by the DVZ. In each of the files, the name of the person concerned appeared as a contact person and his address was given in Belgium. In January there were further applications for 12 other persons, in which the person concerned also acts as an intermediary. Those requests were immediately withdrawn from my question until there is more clarity about the rumours that are being made. For the sake of clarity, acting as a contact person in the context of visa applications is not in itself a crime. This is not a cabinet contact person to organise a rescue operation, but individual files, in which individuals can give up a contact person or sponsor. However, the rumours went beyond that and insinuated that money was required for the intervention. Since I cannot verify the information from the rumors myself, on 16 February, the day after that, I informed the federal prosecutor. For the sake of clarity, that is not an assessment of the content of the rumours, because everyone is innocent until proven otherwise, but on the basis of the information I have at my disposal, I have no choice but to mention it. It is up to the court to decide whether further investigation is necessary. I have every confidence in the services and the courts, but in the least millimeters of doubt, it is in everyone's interest to carry out an investigation. It is also necessary to clarify a few things. On 15 February, I received a classified note from the State Security Office. On 16 February I made an official report by letter of 'a rumor that reached me'. So I didn't give up the entire note or the source in my letter to the public prosecutor. However, I did stress to the parquet that it was about unconfirmed information. Meanwhile, a second unclassified note containing the information in question was requested from the Security of the State. I received that note on February 22nd and submitted it to the parquet, dislike the parquet. Mr De Roover, you are asking for the criterion of providing such information to the courts. When I am personally informed of possible criminal offences in my area of competence, I will not hesitate to inform the legal services in our country. That seems to me to be the duty of any member of the government who takes his or her duties seriously. It's what any good family father would do in the performance of a public office. To my senses, I even have a duty to go to court. In fact, past failures have shown us that non-action in the event of rumors is not an option. With regard to the measures taken in response to this case, please be aware that, although a procedure for dealing with these cases already exists, I have established clear guidelines for the Aliens Office in case my office should be contacted. I explicitly stated that if the name of a contact person appeared in several files, my firm would have to be informed. Previously, the category "contact person" was not systematically followed by the Aliens Office in the various cases. However, the processing of the latter shall always be carried out by the said Office. As Secretary of State, I have discretionary powers with regard to humanitarian visas. This does not mean that I examine and evaluate each case personally. It is necessary to objectify the work done by my services. Of course, I assume political responsibility for sensitive issues that are also the subject of discussions within the government, if necessary. I would like to make it clear once and for all that political arbitration in the granting of humanitarian visas is not acceptable. For this reason, the Aliens Office evaluates the granting of such visas on the basis of objective guidelines. These are always individual evaluations in which all elements of a file are taken into account. Everyone has the right to apply individually, and my firm does not work with intermediaries. Mr Segers, there are several reasons why someone can apply for a humanitarian visa. You have already informed us of the main ones. This can be done through resettlement, extensive family reunification, urgent situations that justify a short stay in Belgium, but also in some cases longer stays. In this case, the Department of Foreign Affairs considered that the persons were in a pressing situation in Turkey. At the moment, I cannot split up on the basis of the motives for the humanitarian visas C and D granted. My services are working to enable proper reporting to Parliament. At the moment, the Foreign Affairs Office, in cooperation with Foreign Affairs, is working on the adaptation of the ICT system and the forms. Does this file mean that the humanitarian visa system needs to be revised? This is an important consideration. Despite the risks, I still think it's an important tool to be able to provide rapid and individual assistance, in certain situations, to people at risk. In this way, we can sometimes really make a difference for someone, and give a very concrete interpretation of our international responsibilities for the protection of human rights. However, in order to avoid arbitrariness, as has already been discussed in this committee, there will be more transparency vis-à-vis Parliament with regard to humanitarian visas. I would also like to ask you not to carry out intentional proceedings on this dossier, not to play political games and, above all, to let the court do its job. As far as the role of the media is concerned, we cannot judge the sources, witnesses or information at their disposal. Journalists work in complete freedom, as it should be in our country. That is why we also offer protection to journalists who cannot enjoy this freedom in their own country. The question we do have to ask, and I should like to congratulate most of my colleagues on their question, to the extent that I have to do so, is how we deal with the information that is available today, but also over the past few days and over the next few days, on social media. It is not because in this case it happens to be a person who is active in the Chamber that this would be a reason to conduct intent processes à la bonheur. Let the court do its job and let the politicians do their job. That is not the spreading of rumors, the carrying out of intent processes or the committing of character murders, as unfortunately happens occasionally.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic397x.u8	Thank you, Secretary of State, for your clarification. You are right to point out that we must be cautious and cautious about rumours. And you are also right to say that we must take responsibility and take action to clarify certain situations. In this regard, I would like to welcome the fact that you gave your administration clear instructions quickly, particularly with regard to the follow-up of contact persons. Indeed, restoring the confidence of everyone, and first and foremost that of the potential beneficiaries of this system, is indispensable. We need an internal control mechanism and clear processes. We also need reliable intermediaries, because humanitarian visas are an essential tool, and the question of how they are framed is a strong one if we are to ensure that this cannot happen again, Secretary of State. We count on you to make proposals in this direction. If we use contact persons, as we had already mentioned when we took stock of the sad Kucam case, we must ensure that these people are also screened. More structured organizations appear to provide stronger guarantees, although the need to act on a case-by-case basis and quickly to save lives can also be understood. We are counting on you, Secretary of State, and we will not fail to come back with other questions on the evolution of the humanitarian visa process.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic397x.u9	Mr President, Secretary of State, Mr De Roover has used a number of harsher words. I also read a tweet from an N-VA colleague who says that anyone who asks a question about this case is a bloodhound. It's on the record. Mr Secretary of State, you have done what is necessary. If there are any stories about irregularities, it is normal for you to report them. More than that, it's your job. It is not for you to judge. That is why it is good to have this sorted out by your services and to transfer it, if necessary, to bodies that are competent to do so. It is even a pity to say that not all State Secretarys have had such reflexes. For the record, I don't feel at all touched by the harsher words of some people. I would like to see clarity on humanitarian visas. We need to get these humanitarian visas out of the grey zone as much as possible, without affecting their discretionary nature. For the classic situations, for example family ties, it is therefore necessary for us to always have a plan, a plan for each humanitarian visa issued in relation to guidance and follow-up. If there are situations that differ from the normal situation, for example Rwanda in 1994, there is obviously a need for very clear political coverage. If we know that humanitarian visas without proven family ties at the same embassy or consulate have always been rejected and that there have now been requests that are outside the criteria and that have been met, then there must be reason to do so. There may be good reasons, but I do want to know these reasons and above all I want to know what policy this fits into. As far as that is concerned, I still have a few questions to ask today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic397x.u10	Mr President, Secretary of State, it is said that you did what you had to do. In part, that's right. Of course, that everything is being investigated is obvious. However, you have done more than is necessary. You gave a slap to the rumor mill, and you did not respond to it in your reply. You should have been discreet. It's about someone who's been elected to this House. Which means there's got to be a discreet investigation into what her husband's doing. The insinuated involvement, for which there is absolutely no indication, is indeed a character murder. Mr Secretary of State, you have not been discreet. You didn't even answer my question. What do you think about your contacts with the press? Ladies and gentlemen, this is an attempt, perhaps by a foreign and not immediately democratic regime, to discredit a representative of the people. Mr Secretary of State, a complete discretion would have been appropriate here. You should have taken care of that. Do you not think that you have now allowed yourself to be abused as a pawn in a game of a foreign power which, on the basis of rumors, has damaged a people's representative's reputation? I don't understand why you don't even go into that and you don't have that self-reflection here. I am not talking about you providing information to the public prosecutor or informing him of a state security file. However, if you attach importance to these rumours, why do you not attach importance to the rumors that Iranian services are actively involved in the issue? Why didn't you inform your Foreign Minister of the fact that you were able to conduct an investigation into that part, which you seem not to consider necessary? You have not acted discreetly in this matter. You have given air to the spreading of absolutely unproven rumors, which I deeply regret. I am also very sorry that you have been riding around the questions here. You had the opportunity to strike somewhere culpa here, in particular because you have acted insufficiently discreetly, insufficiently collegial and insufficiently in order to safeguard the proper functioning of our institution. There seems to be no reflection on this matter that you share with the Chamber. You have missed an opportunity to make the appropriate decisions. I hope that in future you will be more discreet in dealing with such attempts by perhaps foreign services to discredit colleagues. It is not because it concerns a colleague from a party other than yours that you should not have acted on this issue. You shouldn't have fed the media to do what happened. Mr Secretary of State, you should have spoken here and explained what you did not do. I regret that very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic397x.u11	Mr President, I would just like to point out that we normally have time to speak in the context of the benevolence of our collective work. It is always interesting to respect the timing in order to improve the quality of our work. I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. There is indeed a duty of reserve and discretion to respect and, at the same time, it is up to us, as parliamentarians, to ensure that there is no more room for such suspicions. That is the objective of the action you have taken. You said that non-action was not an option. I think the border between silence and denial is very thin, as we have seen in the past. Some have chosen silence and denial, you have chosen action and I thank you for it. First of all, there are direct actions. I think that working on the basis of suspicion and ensuring that very clear instructions were given for follow-up of contact persons, without going through an intermediary, was the right thing to do. Secondly, there will be structural and transparent political work. As far as objectivation is concerned, I know that we do not fully agree on the need to apply criteria in order to leave room for manoeuvre, but I think that the objectivation can go through reliable partners, such as non-governmental organisations (NGOs) or associative and international intermediaries who know the ground, and that is the fundamental issue, in my view.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic397x.u12	I am trying to keep an eye on time, Mr Moutquin, but I am a little more flexible in a topical debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic397x.u13	Mr Secretary of State, I agree with you when you say that everyone is innocent until proven guilty. I therefore think it is important that the investigation should be carried out thoroughly. However, we have to note that the humanitarian visa system is repeatedly being called into question. Last week I read in De Morgen that Professor Ellen Desmet of the Human Rights Centre said that the current system of doubt is working and that there seems to be no line in it. I agree with her. Refugee work Flanders also mentions the lack of guidelines, which now leads to people with a higher level of protection falling out of the boat because they do not know how to get on a list. We are in favour of structural solutions. In order to avoid arbitrariness and corruption, objective criteria must be applied. We believe it is important to work with this and also to have a way of meeting exceptions to these criteria. Have I heard you say that objective criteria will be used? Or did I misunderstand that? You also say that we need more transparency, but that transparency will have to go beyond the reporting to Parliament on which you insist. It is not sufficient to rule out abuse.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic397x.u14	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply and for your explanation. You did indeed do what was necessary in this particular dossier. I agree with the other colleagues who have asked us to look at how we can increase the transparency of the system and how we can avoid abuse. How can we more objectify the humanitarian visa system? I therefore hope that we will be able to debate the criteria and the way in which they will be applied here in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic397x.u15	Are there any colleagues who wish to join in this topical debate?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic397x.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I note that not all Members agree on whether this dossier acted in good faith. What most colleagues seem to agree on is the bad role played by the media, in this case De Morgen, in this dossier. I even hear the words "character murder" and "absolutely unproven rumors." A colleague of the N-VA even talks about interference by foreign powers, which harm democratically elected representatives of the people. It is also stated that the Secretary of State has fed those rumours in the media. I do not wish to comment on that. We do not know enough about this. It seems to me that there was good faith, but that is not what I am saying. However, I would like to say that as far as feeding the media is concerned, all colleagues here have butter on their heads. After all, who is funding mainstream media, which offer such unproven rumors a megaphone? Well, your party, too, Mr De Roover. In that respect, perhaps everyone can look into their own bosoms. The heavy subsidies to mainstream media that spread such bad things must be questioned.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic397x.u17	Mr President, Secretary of State, UNHCR's latest report reiterates the growing need for resettlement for the most vulnerable refugees around the world. Those new estimates were worrying, while the health crisis had led to a suspension of resettlement programmes and the commitment of States to that durable solution remained too limited. By 2021, nearly 1.5 million vulnerable refugees will need resettlement. Of the cases submitted by UNHCR, 60 per cent concerned women and girls and 51 per cent concerned children. The first countries to receive resettlements in 2019 were Canada, Germany, the United States, Sweden, the United Kingdom and France. Mr Secretary of State, what about Belgium? Since 2013, Belgium has established a structural resettlement programme and is committed to hosting an annual contingent of vulnerable refugees. You have committed to the number of relocations set for 2021. Where do we stand in practice? How many people are included in this year's program? Which country will they come from? How are the arrivals of the resettled in 2021 distributed? At European level, the European Commission has published recommendations on asylum, in particular on resettlement programmes, in order to integrate health concerns. Have we followed these recommendations? If so, what and how are the operational resettlement plans adapted to the current health crisis?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic397x.u18	Mr President, Mr Rigot, thank you for your question. As I have already indicated in my policy note, I consider it important to respect Belgium's past commitments to resettlement and to further strengthen this programme. On 25 February 2021, 156 Syrian refugees arrived from Turkey. Further CGRA selection missions will take place in the coming months. The asylum services will do everything in their power to resettle another 1,307 people in Belgium by the end of 2021. This is the deadline set by the European Commission for commitments for 2018, 2019 and 2020. These include Syrian refugees in Turkey, Lebanon and Jordan and refugees of various sub-Saharan nationalities who have been evacuated from Libya to the Niger and Rwanda through the emergency transit mechanism, as well as Congolese refugees residing in Rwanda. The fact that the 2,000-seat quota was not fully filled by the end of 2019 is due to the sharp increase in the number of asylum applications during the same year and the constant high pressure on the reception system. That is why the then minister, Maggie De Block, was forced to temporarily suspend the implementation of the programme. In July 2020, the programme was relaunched and transfers were again organised under the impetus of the European Commission and UNHCR. Belgium has focused particularly on Syrian refugees in its resettlement programme in recent years, although a limited number of places have also been provided for refugees from the Great Lakes region, mainly Congolese. For the 2020 pledging (commitment), about 40 per cent of the quota is provided for Congolese refugees and other African refugees, some of whom will be evacuated from Libya to Niger and Rwanda. In this way, Belgium responds to UNHCR's diversification demand and aligns its quota as much as possible with the actual distribution of resettlement needs around the world. Following the relaunch of the Belgian resettlement programme in the summer of 2020, both CGRA and Fedasil have taken various measures to ensure that resettlement operations can continue both in terms of selection and arrivals and that this can be done under safe sanitary conditions. Thus the CGRA, in accordance with the first recommendation of the European Commission, has moved on to videoconference interviews in the context of resettlement. This procedure will be used as long as face-to-face interviews in countries of asylum are not possible or remain strongly discouraged. Of course, Fedasil, who organizes the trips, respects the health measures before and after departure to Belgium. Both CGRA and Fedasil actively participate in the EASO network for resettlement and admission on humanitarian grounds and actively exchange information with other national administrations to learn about their measures, experiences and best practices. There was also a very regular dialogue with UNHCR and the International Organization for Migration (IOM) in order to prepare the planned operations as best as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic397x.u19	Mr. Secretary of State, thank you for your comprehensive and accurate answers. I am pleased to see the resumption of the necessary resettlement operations as they are the most vulnerable audiences. We know the pressure our network experienced in 2019 and 2020 and it is always painful humanly to have to choose between vulnerable and distressed people in our country and vulnerable people and people in difficulty at the borders of our country. We must also ensure that we have this reserve of places to guarantee our commitments in resettlement programmes. Therefore, buffers must be created so that these painful choices do not have to be made. I would also like to thank you for ensuring the protection of those who contribute to this resettlement policy, all beneficiaries and those who will be in contact with the future resettled. Bravo for your work, I'm counting on you for the rest.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic397x.u20	Mrs Van Camp, you ask on which basis my statement is based on the number of people reaching the mainland, which is a fairly limited number, and from where that information comes. Well, I can confirm that this information was delivered to me personally during a diplomatic contact I had at the highest level. I'd like to say more, but you're just asking me what my source was. Now, the source of the information I have communicated to the Pallieterke, to which you refer in your question, is a diplomatic contact I have had at the highest level.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic397x.u21	Mrs. Van Camp, is that enough?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic397x.u22	No, you don't. Mr Secretary of State, I find it remarkable that you make statements on such an important issue, saying that the number is limited. By means of a written question, as you yourself suggested, I asked for the exact number. To that written question you did not answer what your source is, you replied only that you should remain guilty because you do not have any figures. Now you say that you have obtained information through diplomatic contact at the highest level. Can I conclude from this, when something is being said to you in, for example, European gremia, that you accept it immediately without checking any further sources? I think that's really weird. I would therefore like to know exactly who provided you with this information and why you assume that this information is correct or why you did not check it. You cannot report numbers, but you may have numbers if that diplomatic source has provided you with precise figures. In that case, I would ask you to provide this information to us in the context of public administration. However, with my written question, I have already requested the figures. I therefore believe that you cannot make such statements. It is clear that you cannot follow the policy of transparency and the correct provision of figures that you have set out. That disappoints me greatly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic397x.u23	The Secretary of State wishes to add a small supplement.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic397x.u24	Mrs. Van Camp, I'd like to give you that information. Actually, we're discussing your written question right now. You wanted to know exactly how many asylum seekers have moved from the Canary Islands to the European mainland, broken down by month, by nationality and by European country in which they are currently received. I can't give you those numbers. You also asked about the basis of an interview in 't Pallieterke, in which I said those numbers are limited. You have already submitted several questions about this source, the basis of that information. I have told you a number of times who I am in contact with from Spain. My sources are my Spanish colleagues, whom I talk to, and who tell me. We are trying to work together at European level. We are convinced that good international cooperation is the only way to address the challenges of asylum and migration as well as possible, and we are doing our best to do so. We are trying to rely on what is being communicated to us, assuming that we can also continue to cooperate on the basis of that trust. You will also have questions about how we are trying to work on the mechanisms of returned sponsorship. That too is based on trust. I can only say that I cannot provide you with the very specific information on how Spain handles its information. I would like to make it clear that if I say anything in a particular newspaper or on a particular website, this is based on contacts I have.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic397x.u25	Mr Secretary of State, I am really looking at this. It is not about specified information, it is about an important debate, where the Spaniards are also in trouble. We see very clearly that there is a problem there of a very important leaky external border. In that case, any kind of care must be taken. The Spanish then tell you that they have no problem at all, because they have been looking at it for a long time and that nobody is actually passing through when there are no figures. I didn't ask you for any specialized information. You said in the Pallieterke that we should not worry about these dreary migrants arriving in the Canary Islands, because they do not reach the European mainland. This does not seem to me to be specialized information, it is about large numbers and about important problems. You're saying it's not a problem, because they're not moving on. If they don't move on, can you give me some? That's not specialized information. You replied to this question and I quote you, I do not paraphrase: 'The figures requested do not exist either at Belgian or at European level'. You did not even say that you received those figures from a Spanish colleague. Now it is also clear that those Spaniards have just told you that they have no problem and that you should not worry, that they have seen that no one is passing through. I am very disappointed that you are putting your policy on that and that you are accepting what people are just saying to you and not going to investigate for themselves. You then pass it on in interviews and tell people that they really shouldn't worry about a leaky external border, because those people do not travel, that your Spanish colleagues have assured you that. They will not, of course, say that there is a major problem, because that is a whole part of it that passes to the European continent. It is clear, as you said in the answer to the written question, that there are no figures. It would be a good thing if you were still asking for the figures and perhaps a little more careful about dealing with such information, as you yourself had suggested.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic397x.u26	Mr President, Mrs Van Camp, thank you for your question. The Foreign Affairs Office shall examine in each file what measures are legally possible and appropriate. In the case in question, both persons were still in Dublin proceedings, making it legally impossible to deliver an order to leave the territory. I assume you agree with me that we must comply with the law. Moreover, in order to force someone to be removed, the person concerned should also be detained. Because of the limited number of places provided by the current covid measures, it is preferable to retain persons who are quickly removable, which was also not the case here, again on the basis of the Dublin procedure, which does not allow this at present.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic397x.u27	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for the answer, which is very disappointing. Either they are involved in a Dublin procedure or they can be effectively extradited to the country responsible for dealing with their asylum procedure and you do what you need to do. Either it is asylum seekers who come to riot on our territory and we can assume that you are doing something, such as at least issuing an order to leave the territory, continuing the Dublin procedure, an expulsion procedure or a detention order, to show that we cannot tolerate the rioting of illegal immigrants on the territory. You confirm today that you just left the case blue-blue. They are in a Dublin procedure and are now at large. You say that you will see when those concerned can be intercepted and perhaps extradited to the country responsible for their asylum procedure. It is extremely disappointing that you are so lightly dealing with illegal immigrants, who are also here to kick ass. We have also noticed in previous cases that you have overlooked the fact that asylum seekers come here to preach hatred. You say that you have done your thing and that you have issued an order to leave the territory for the Turkish imam's file. For asylum seekers who spit in the face of agents, you say that there wasn't really a way to intercept them and point them out. That is very disappointing and against the policy we have to pursue. I do not understand why you are so tolerant of asylum seekers and illegal immigrants who come here to kick ass and commit criminal acts. I really expected more from you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic397x.u28	Secretary of State, on 4 August 2020, 18 minors who had been in migrant camps on the Greek islands for several months arrived in Belgium. The crisis of the covid-19 has added urgency to the deplorable living conditions of these hotspots for refugees. We acted for 18 minors, but there are so many people left in these camps! Nearly 42,000 migrants live in infrastructure for 7,000 people, according to the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. At the beginning of March 2020, the European Commission had adopted an action plan to support Greece in its migration crisis. In particular, the plan provides for the relocation of 1,600 unaccompanied foreign minors (MENAs), most of whom are under 14 years of age and suffering from serious diseases in surplus. I know, Mr Secretary of State, that you are advocating for a structural relocation mechanism in order to reflect on legal ways of migration. Where are we in practice today? Belgium undertook to relocate 150 MENA. Where are we? Is Belgium engaged in other relocation plans? If so, which ones? For which target audience, for what number of people and in which hotspots?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic397x.u29	Mr President, Mr Rigot, first of all, I give you all the information about the framework and the relocation programme. Following the asylum and migration crisis in 2015, the Council of the European Union adopted two decisions establishing a legal framework for the relocation of applicants for international protection from Greece and Italy to the other Member States. This official programme was implemented in 2017 and 2018. In this context, 1,171 people have been relocated to Belgium. In 2019, Belgium did not commit to relocating people. In 2020, two commitments were made. The first took place as part of the plan to relocate 1,600 MENA from Greece; Belgium undertook to relocate 18 MENA. The second took place following the fire at the Moria camp; Belgium undertook to relocate 12 additional MENA as well as 150 applicants for international protection from Greece, with a focus on families and vulnerable people. It is therefore not 150 MENA as mentioned in your question, but 150 people with a focus on families and vulnerable people. The first commitment, the relocation of the 18 MENA, was finalized in the summer of 2020. The second commitment was partially fulfilled. All 12 MENA arrived in December 2020, except for part last January due to the coronavirus. The relocation procedure for the 150 people is under way. We have reached the stage of receipt of the list of candidates and we hope to begin the transfer this month. However, we remain dependent on the management of the case by the Greek authorities as well as by the European institutions. As regards future relocations, the proposal "Asylum and Migration Management Regulation" contains a compulsory solidarity mechanism, in some cases resorting to the relocation of persons from the Member States considered to be under pressure. At the moment, no agreement on this proposal for a regulation has yet been reached, but the negotiations in which Belgium is participating are still under way.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic397x.u30	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answers. The question of relocation will be discussed within the framework of the European Asylum and Migration package discussed at the Justice and Home Affairs Council on Thursday, if I am not mistaken. I will certainly come back to ask you about the results and whether, together with your colleagues, you will have been able to move forward with the activation of a more dynamic and rapid relocation programme in its reaction. In fact, the procedural delays are terribly long and affect people who are waiting, under difficult conditions, for a hand to be stretched out. I have no doubt that you will be attentive to it. So I'll come back to you in a few weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic397x.u31	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, according to the EUobserver news site, the European Border and Coast Guard Agency, Frontex, will suspend all its operations in Hungary, while Budapest continues to return migrants to Serbia. In a report published on 8 January 2021, the Hungarian Helsinki Committee (HHC), a Budapest NGO aiming at respect for human rights, accuses Hungary of continuing to refoulement to Serbia in order to limit asylum applications on its lands. According to Info Migrants, based on data from the Hungarian police, nearly 2,300 people have been deported to Serbia without judicial proceedings in the last few months alone. Secretary of State, 4 400 cases of refoulement of migrants to Serbia have since been relayed by the Helsinki Committee, in violation of a judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union in December 2020. Hungary deprives asylum seekers of their fundamental right to apply for asylum. You are calling for "a solution that strengthens borders but at the same time strengthens solidarity between countries, and therefore the countries of Eastern Europe must shoulder their responsibilities". Is there a European debate on this subject? What is Belgium's position? Let me stress that on 12 January 2021 the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) opened an investigation into Frontex following allegations of refoulement into the Aegean Sea. The investigation is also likely to involve possible faults on the part of Frontex leader Fabrice Leggeri. Does Frontex still have the confidence of the European Union? In the future, Frontex will also be able to support the Schengen States, including Belgium, in all aspects of the return of illegal residents. Do you maintain the choice of a collaboration with Frontex, as planned in the context of voluntary return? Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to apologize for the length of my speech, but this is a very important subject for my group.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic397x.u32	Mr Rigot, you spoke for two minutes. You have therefore respected your speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic397x.u33	Mr President, Mr Rigot, you could have even extended your speech by 30 seconds! But I will not encourage you to further develop your question, which was clear and precise. In accordance with the Treaty of the European Union, the Commission may initiate infringement proceedings against a Member State which does not implement Union law. The Commission has already initiated various proceedings against Hungary. The Court of Justice of the European Union has also condemned Hungarian return policy. Following these convictions, the European Union decided to suspend the joint patrols of Frontex and the Hungarian border guards until Hungary complied with the Court's ruling on its asylum and migration system. In a new European procedure concerning the criminalisation by Hungary of aid provided to asylum seekers, again yesterday, the Advocate General called on the Court of Justice to give the European Commission a new reason in an appeal against Hungary on respect for the rule of law. In addition, on Thursday 18 February the Commission sent a reasoned opinion to Hungary on legislation limiting migrants' access to the asylum procedure. The Hungarian authorities have two months to inform the Commission of the measures taken. There is, of course, a European discussion. At the end of 2020, the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) opened an investigation against the Frontex Agency following allegations of harassment and misconduct. In a short time, Frontex became a major agency. The number of employees and resources increased significantly. It is natural that the good governance and staff management of an expanding agency should be closely monitored. OLAF has proven in the past that it can conduct such sensitive investigations. However, when a complaint occurs in a department and an investigation is under way, caution should also be exercised until the results are published. Since Frontex's follow-up falls within the competence of the Federal Police, I would ask you to address your more detailed questions to the Minister of the Interior, Mrs Verlinden. Frontex helps the Member States of the European Union and the countries associated with the Schengen area to manage their external borders. The Agency has a very wide range of competences in various areas of the European Union which, since 2019, go far beyond border surveillance. In January 2020, Frontex began supporting EU countries in the new area of voluntary returns. Frontex assists national authorities by providing technical support for voluntary returns on scheduled and charter flights, including with the chartering of aircraft. Frontex will soon begin to offer reintegration services with assistance to returnees. I would also like to focus on voluntary return to my policy. My services, and in particular Fedasil, in the context of voluntary returns, use the European expertise available to help people who reside illegally in Belgium return voluntarily to their country of origin.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic397x.u34	Mr Secretary of State, thank you. As far as Frontex is concerned, I will of course turn to your colleague, the Minister of the Interior, since we must be certain that our partners are reliable while keeping the caution at the moment, as you say, in the current procedure. As far as Hungary is concerned, I would point out that we cannot be a little or a lot European. We must be passionately European. Whatever the Member States, solidarity is a pillar of Europe and, if necessary, Hungary must be compelled to show solidarity and respect for the basic rights, the very values of our actions and of our struggles and values in our Europe. I count on you to recall this Thursday in the framework of this Justice and Home Affairs Council (JHA) in which you will participate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic397x.u35	Mr Rigot, the reception centre in Liège (St-Joseph) is part of the public market for the private sector, in order to temporarily increase the reception capacity. Several sites, including the Saint-Joseph site in Liège, were approved by the Council of Ministers and were scheduled to open in early October 2020. The opening of the centre of Liège (Saint-Joseph) finally took place on 16 February 2021, a delay which is mainly due to the prolonged delays in carrying out the work necessary to obtain the permission of the firefighters. Fedasil has no contractual relationship with the owner of the site, it is the operator of the G4S center who has entered into a lease agreement with the owner of the site. The entry into force of this lease corresponds to the opening of the reception centre. Recruitment is proportional to the number of open places. The delayed opening did not have an impact on the recruitment of staff and did not result in the dismissal of staff members. The occupancy rate of collective reception has been stable for several months. There is currently a sufficient number of places available in the network. This was also one of the promises contained in the policy statement. I am still happy to provide you with this answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic397x.u36	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your clarification. It's clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic397x.u37	Mr President, Mrs Van Camp, first of all I would like to point out that there is a distinction between the supervision of families with underage children in their own homes and the supervision that is taking place in the FITT residence. As you may know, these FITT homes are already an alternative to the detention of families with children today. The guidance you are talking about relates to families who are not staying in a FITT residence. Of these, 2 returned in 2020, 1 on its own and 1 on its own. From the FITT homes, 15 families were forced to be removed in 2020 and 2 returned voluntarily. In 2021, 20 families were already present at an interview. From the FITT homes there were already 3 removals in January 2021, of which 2 repatriations and 1 voluntary return. As for your question regarding the cost of the assistance, this concerns staff costs for the escorts. The costs of the companions of the FITT residences are borne by European funds. For the period November 2019 to November 2020, wage costs for the escorts, including the end-of-year premiums and holiday allowances, amounted to EUR 508,91.20 for a total of 9 escorts. If a family refuses to respond to the offer of return guidance, their files will be analysed individually to assess what appropriate action can be taken. For example, forced removal can also be carried out through residence in a FITT house. Some families who do not respond to the invitation do not appear to be staying at the address indicated, so that a succession is impossible until the family is found again. In other cases, the supervisors go on the spot to try to convince the families to join the project. New elements need to be examined in a number of dossiers. There is indeed an alternative to the retention of families. That's the intensive return guidance. Additional escorts will be recruited for this purpose. Although the project is primarily aimed at self-employed or voluntary return, it does not stop there. A pressing policy also implies that if the stranger does not comply with the order to leave the territory and indicates that he will not or will not return, there will be a forced departure. For families with underage children, forced return is organised from the FITT homes. In addition, the evaluation of possible alternatives to detention will be ongoing and will consider on that basis which elements should be expanded and which new alternatives could be applied in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic397x.u38	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, thank you for updating this dossier. Unless I have misunderstood, and you can at least correct that, there are no claims in the file yet. You have said with this government that you will establish a moratorium on families and their return, and you say today that there are still no alternatives and that you are still looking at them. Last time, you said you'd be working with those families in illegal residence. You said the coaching started for 150 of them. I would now like to ask you for an update on the 150 families for which you started coaching. I don't know how many there were in 2020, but in 2019 it was about 2,700 families. You say now, if I interpret the figures correctly, we are still working, 20 have been interviewed, 3 have been deported and 1 has left voluntarily. If I understand correctly, it's about one voluntary return in about 2,000 to 3,000 families. Sort of, because you didn't mention the figures for 2020. I don't know when you'll decide for yourself that the coaching doesn't really work. I think that is a first important point. A second point of interest is that you said last time that some of the families you started coaching for, some 50 out of 150, simply refused to go into it. You are now saying that in these cases you will always look at them on a case-by-case basis. Then I ask you what exactly happened to that 50. You say it's often impossible to find them. So I have to say that in 2019 of the 2,700 families that were here illegally you tried to coach at the start for 150, that 50 said not to participate, some blue blue, and that of the 100 you started with had to return three times and one voluntarily returned. With those figures, but I can always have misinterpreted them or misunderstood them, I do not call that a success at all. One family has voluntarily returned while 50 refused and that out of a total of almost 3,000 families. I wonder when you will carry out that analysis and when you will come up with alternatives and, above all, when you will change your policy so that the impunity of the illegals stops here?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic397x.u39	Mr Secretary of State, over the last few weeks we have been hearing a lot about and about Afghan refugees. We are told that once they are 18 years old and are no longer protected, their asylum applications are usually refused. However, the situation in Afghanistan has deteriorated recently. On 23 February, the UN published a report describing an increase in civilian casualties. Although cases generally decreased by 15% in 2020 compared to 2019, this trend has been broken since the beginning of the peace negotiations. The last three months of 2020 saw an increase of 45% compared to the same period in 2019. Firstly, what is Afghans' provisional protection level in 2021 and how does it relate to previous years? Secondly, how many percent of Afghan young people's applications for asylum who are of age and protected by the Belgian State are assessed positively? Thirdly, can we have access to the way in which and on what basis the CGVS judges? Are there internal notes from the CGVS on the treatment of certain nationalities?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic397x.u40	Thank you for your question, Mrs Daems. Afghans' requests are not largely rejected. I suspect that this rumor stems from the fact that in recent weeks many decisions of inadmissibility have been taken for subsequent applications for international protection. The CGVS first assesses whether there are any new elements with regard to a previous request. If this is not the case, the CGMS shall declare the following application inadmissible. If there are any new elements, the CGVS will examine them in substance. The large number of decisions of inadmissibility taken by the CGVS is due to the fact that many subsequent requests have been submitted in recent months and are dealt with as a matter of priority, in accordance with the law. By 2020, the level of protection was 32.91 %. For 2021, this is slightly more than 31 % for the time being. This low percentage is largely explained by the large number of inadmissibility decisions in the case of a subsequent application. If we omit those decisions, the level of protection was 60.74 % in 2020 and 66 % in 2021. With regard to access to the handling of the files by the CGVS, I can be brief, as the CGVS is a legally independent body. As a result, the policies of the CGVS and of the Council of Foreign Ministers cannot be the subject of a political assessment. I intend not to change anything about this. The EASO guidelines can be consulted in order to gain an insight into the way in which they are assessed. For the CGMS, they form the basis for the assessment of applications for international protection.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic397x.u41	Thank you for the explanation, Mr Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic397x.u42	Mr. Secretary of State, on Twitter, attorney Benoit Dhondt spoke out about a bizarre case. An Afghan boy who was recognised as a refugee in 2019 still has to fight to be reunited with his family. In 2020, their visa application was first refused and destroyed. After this the parents had to make the journey to the Belgian embassy in Islamabad, while living in a war zone. These are really Kafkaian states. However, Mr Dhondt calls this dossier simple and obvious. It is not the first time that the negative consequences of an embassyless country have come to light. A few weeks ago, MO*Magazine reported on the life-threatening tours that someone's brother-in-law had to undertake so that his sister and her children would have a chance of family reunification. Of course, it is irresponsible to establish a physical Belgian embassy in Afghanistan, but it remains a laughable fact. Mr Secretary of State, the rights of refugees are being compromised because it is very difficult for Afghans to get in touch with Belgian representatives. A Belgian embassy in Afghanistan is too dangerous, but isn't there a better solution? Will you discuss this with your colleague Wilmès?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic397x.u43	Mrs Daems, I find it difficult to comment on individual matters, especially those that have Twitter as their source. However, from your question, I would like to point out that the reason for the multiple travel of those concerned is that the visa application was rejected. The application for family reunification is an objective procedure which is assessed by my services after they have evaluated the supporting documents. We cannot question that principle just in order to safeguard the rights of refugees and migrants in this country. In general, I can tell you that Belgium, as a country with a modest size and population, has about 120 embassies and consulates in all parts of the world. This is not bad for our country compared to other European Member States. The distance between Kabul and Islamabad is 470 km, which is considerable. However, even in countries where we do have an embassy, the distance between the residence of visa applicants and the capital can increase considerably. The problem of distance is therefore certainly not specific to the situation in Afghanistan. Unfortunately, there are still too many places where war rages. Unless we decide to open multiple posts in each country, which implies a significant revision of the Foreign Affairs budget, third country nationals will always be at risk of having to move to apply for a visa D that gives them the right to stay in Belgium for a longer period of time. Thanks to Schengen cooperation, we can work together with other European Member States on short stays, which is a significant advantage. However, the situation I have just outlined may create particular difficulties in specific cases. In the context of the planned legislative amendment to the rules on family reunification, we will therefore consider within the government what measures are necessary and possible. Opening and closing a post abroad is the responsibility of the Minister of Foreign Affairs. It will do so after a thorough evaluation of bilateral relations, economic and security motives, but also on the basis of the number of Belgians in the region. On the specific choice not to open a Belgian embassy in Kabul, I would like to refer you to Mrs Wilmès.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic397x.u44	Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic397x.u45	Mr Secretary of State, two weeks ago I asked you a question about the occupation of the Begijnhof church by sans-papiers, which continues continuously. You then said what you have repeated in the press on several occasions, namely that there will be no collective regularisation. That was old news back then, but what we found out is that you are not in favour of objective criteria for granting the right of residence. This raises serious questions about the policy you want to pursue. So you do not want collective regulation, which nobody in the debate is asking for, but you do not want objective and transparent criteria. In fact, you advocate the maintenance of the system as it is, while the occupation of the Beguinage Church is the main sign that the system you are defending is not working. The increase in resources promised by you and the recruitment of additional staff will not change the fact that a 51-year-old born and raised in Belgium cannot obtain a right of residence after several procedures. There is no shortage of resources, but too much arbitrariness. The only way to combat this is to be more objective and transparent. Mr Secretary of State, do you not agree with the way in which the current regularisation system works? Do you think that maintaining that system coupled with a voluntary return policy is adequate to improve the state of play and to provide a solution for sans papers? How do you reconcile that with the figures of the estimated number of sans papers? Why do you keep repeating the story of collective regularization when no one asks for it? The processing of those files is by definition individual. Finally, what is it that bothers you about the idea of objective criteria? Do you choose randomness and a different treatment for two identical files, because the law is not properly defined?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic397x.u46	As my colleague Daems has said, a hundred undocumented people have been occupying the Béguinage church in Brussels for the past few weeks. Most of these people live in a situation of extreme insecurity, exacerbated by the health crisis, which has led to a loss of employment for many of these people denied by society as they contribute to the dynamism of the social, economic, associative and cultural fabric of our country. There are many who report this situation, even within employers. You said that "this occupation didn't make sense" and that "it wouldn't make you sing". Personally, in terms of meaning, I think that the undocumented have already often highlighted their situation too often forgotten. This occupation has, therefore, proved its meaning and has once again highlighted the extreme precariousness in which these people have lived for a long time in Belgium, due to the lack of a transparent procedure with clear criteria and access to a residence permit. Migration policy in recent years has increased the difficulty of accessing a residence permit. You are not responsible, but your predecessors have a share of responsibility for having "created" undocumented people, while the procedures have sometimes changed. Today, more than twelve years ago, there has been no regularization campaign – not a massive and collective campaign, as some people like to say, but an objectified campaign based on individual cases. What concrete measures do you intend to take to respond to the social emergency caused by the presence of undocumented people in Brussels, particularly with regard to vaccination? Is the introduction of clear criteria set out in the law possible in the short to medium term? Are you in favour of holding a calm and objective debate on the fate of the undocumented, inviting social and economic actors and representatives of the undocumented collectives to come and speak in Parliament? They have things to say and it would be interesting to listen to them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic397x.u47	Mr Secretary of State, I will not go back to the many more than relevant questions that have already been asked by my colleagues. I agree with Mr Moutquin when he speaks of the meaning of this action, which highlights the difficulty and human distress in which the homeless live. What are the profiles of the applicants in this occupation? Do you have any information about the course of each of these cases as to the reasons that led to the negative outcome of their application for international protection? In addition to your statements, have any contacts been made by your firm with the persons concerned, with local authorities and with support associations? What exit do you intend to find in this file? I understand that you do not intend to give in, but it is imperative to provide a response to human distress and to a situation that must not become an arm of iron.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic397x.u48	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. I think it is a punishment in itself that it is claimed that no one is asking for collective regularisation. I would like to point out, however, the concrete demands of the activists, because it is indeed a question of collective regulation for all sans papers. I speak French easily enough to understand what needs to be understood when scanning 'régularisez tous les sans-papiers'. In recent weeks I have been constantly asked about it, not only by the media, but also here in this committee. Several parliamentary questions have already been raised and a motion for a resolution is also being discussed. Yes, to the extent that this is necessary, I want to clarify this: there will be no collective regulation. I also know that there is often a semantic discussion about the regularisation campaigns of 1999-2000 and 2009-2010, but if it is clearer to you in this way, then there will be no such campaign, no matter what word you use. The main reason why I do not want such campaigns is that they have not brought structural solutions in the past and will not do so now either. As long as such campaigns are conducted, people will continue to hope to stay here. This undermines the return policy and it is also unfair to those who do return. So I do not think there should be such a campaign every ten years. But I am not opposed to the possibility of applying for individual regularisation as such. Everyone is free to apply for regularization, as I have said on several occasions. However, the regularisation procedure is and remains an exceptional procedure in which the eligibility of the person concerned is assessed on a case-by-case basis. This is not a standard residence permit procedure. This makes the procedure different from the various residence permit procedures, such as asylum or family reunification, and this should remain so. I do not wish to create an additional migration channel. I have also proclaimed this on several occasions. In addition, these so-called objective criteria of the law are missing their target. There will always be people who will not fall under these criteria. There would then be no safety net for specific cases. I do not think this is an improvement and, if discretion continues to exist in parallel with the criteria, we simply have an additional migration channel. Suppose we register in the law that anyone who is illegally resident on the territory for ten years has the right to be regularized. We're not going for a collective regularization, but whoever's here for ten years can stay. What if we use that as a criterion? Then my sincere question to everyone here is: what will someone who is staying here illegally for eight years be told that people who have been here for ten years are being regularized? Will they return? Or will they wait two years? How can I expect my services to work on a return policy and start a return path for those people, as humane as possible, preferably a voluntary return, if they engage in conversation and find a lasting solution in the country of origin, if that is the criterion we would use? I am only giving it as an argument in conversations that can always be held on this subject. The most important thing is and will continue to be the existence of fast and high-quality accommodation procedures. Everyone must be given a quick answer to his or her question and the answer must be quickly followed up in the form of a residence permit or in the form of a return journey. That too is one of my priorities. This will make regularisation largely unnecessary, but not entirely. I stress that I am always open to dialogue. My collaborators and I have already had various contacts with organizations and interest groups representing the undocumented. We will continue to do so tomorrow and in the years to come. This is important because we often find that people involved sometimes have a different right of residence. This may be asylum or another procedure. The group of undocumented people is very diverse with a very diverse past. Some have already followed various residence procedures, others only stay here during their transit and have not yet followed any procedure. I don't know the background of every undocumented person. I can only get a glimpse of it when a procedure is actually initiated. I have also been in contact with local and regional authorities on several occasions for various dossiers, often on their request. We are always prepared to do so and will continue to do so in the future. My position on the dossier is clear and I will continue to make that point throughout the legislative period, but Parliament is naturally free to organise debates of its own that it considers useful. That belongs to your freedom, Mr Moutquin. I will never intervene in that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic397x.u49	Mr Secretary of State, it seems as if you are confusing a collective struggle with collective regularization. The struggle is collective, but not the procedure, collective regularization is not a real requirement. I have been to the Beguinage Church and I can only repeat the call of those involved here. That question is that you also come to the Beguinage Church to hear them and to engage in dialogue with them. So please go to the Beguinage Church and listen to their stories. You will find that the plaintiffs are all permanently anchored in Belgium. They want nothing more and nothing less than a fair chance based on collective criteria.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic397x.u50	Mr Secretary of State, I will make it clear that we do not agree. The opposition will cry out: "My God! Vivaldi's partners do not agree with each other!" But that's a good thing. I hope that between 86 Members, in a majority of seven parties, there are differences. For the moment, I do not agree at all with your analysis. I do not say this out of political interest, but in the interest of the tens of thousands of people who have lived here for a long time. The Netherlands has done the Kinderpardon. Joe Biden talks about a regularization of nine million people. The United Nations also recommended regularization of some undocumented persons. I think that in Belgium this debate may be stolen by political postures. I do not accuse you of that at all, but the situation in this debate in Belgium is very sad and it would be time to object to it. You said that objective criteria would not allow discretionary assessment. I think both can be combined. You have taken the example of one of the most complicated criteria, that of living ten years in Belgium. You explain it to us and ask us a question. I come with another criterion that was thought of in the Netherlands at the time, i.e. schooling. If we follow your logic, it means that if we announce that when the children are in school, it becomes a criterion, so everyone will go to school. I think that's good news! There are things on which we should be able to work like medical situations or a reflection around the 9ter. You have already been asked about families with sickle cell disease. A whole series of injustices can be resolved despite your positions on regularization on the basis of criteria. I know you're going to work on stateless people. The problem is that the exceptional character remains something subjective. That's what we should be working on. I have two seconds left, and since I made a comment on speaking time, I have to hurry. I think we are missing tens of thousands of people who can contribute to bringing this country out of this pandemic. They did so during the crisis and I think an objective debate would be urgent and welcome.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic397x.u51	Mr Secretary of State, you say that, in the past, collective regulation has not provided a structural solution. The question then is to bring structural answers. If you are not convinced of the previous solutions, you must find others; I know that the road to finding them is not easy. I would really like to hear what you are considering structurally for the present situations. It's a dramatic fact, humanly untenable. These people are there, in difficult situations that are the product of structural problems. We must break this dynamic which produces these terrible situations. I hope that in the future this is the direction you will take. I have heard that you do not plead for collective regularisation, and I understand that, because it is not on the agenda. I also understood – and it is, on the other hand, the positive aspect – that a dialogue was established for the examination of the files. I therefore hope that each situation will be examined individually, since, whatever the outcome, it is truly humanly dramatic.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic397x.u52	Mr Secretary of State, the answer to a written question I submitted earlier shows a decreasing trend in the number of Dublin transfers actually carried out. This is a remarkable development, especially in view of both the number of outside applications and the number of positive decisions received. While the number of positive decisions received between 2017 and 2019, before the outbreak of the corona crisis, increased from 4.004 to 7.058, the number of effective Dublin transfers decreased from 1.107 to 852. One year's decisions or transfers obviously do not necessarily relate to those for whom an application was submitted that year, but the figures do indicate a clear trend. There is a huge and significantly increasing discrepancy between the number of possible Dublin transfers and the number that is actually being carried out. The fact that the Dublin system is not working has been known for some time, but these figures show that there is also a great deal of difficulty in implementing it at home. Do you have an explanation for the significant and increasing discrepancy between the increasing number of positive decisions received and the decreasing number of transfers? What measures have you already taken to increase the number of effective Dublin transfers? Is it true that there would be a discussion on this matter between Fedasil and the Foreign Office? If so, what exactly is this dispute about and what steps have you taken in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic397x.u53	There are several explanations for the discrepancy between the increasing number of positive Dublin agreements and the decreasing number of effective Dublin transfers between 2017 and 2019. During this period, the then Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration decided to focus on the phenomenon of transit migrants. Many of them appeared to have already applied for international protection in another Member State after consultation of Eurodac. A Dublin procedure was initiated and an agreement was also reached from the other Member State. In practice, however, we saw that many of these people disappeared before a transfer could be effectively realized. During the same period, we also saw an increase in the number of applicants for international protection covered by the Dublin procedure. First of all, the Foreign Affairs Office used its efforts to effectively send the Dublin requests within the time limit laid down by law. However, due to a lack of staff, a transfer decision could not be written for each Dublin agreement obtained. The many applicants who do receive a transfer decision do not voluntarily comply with this decision. They appeal to the Council for Aliens' Contests. Many of them leave the shelter and then move to a private address. For the follow-up of these files, DVZ is dependent on police cooperation to carry out address checks. We see that applicants sometimes pass on multiple addresses or wrong addresses, which makes it very difficult to follow up on such dossiers. Due to the large number of files, the DVZ lacked the means to follow each file as closely as possible. A large group of applicants simply disappears before they can be effectively transferred to the responsible Member State. If there are elements that indicate that an applicant will not leave voluntarily and there is a risk that he will disappear, the Department of Foreign Affairs may take a decision on detention. A lack of places in the closed centres was a brake on the ability to carry out a forced transfer to the responsible Member State. Meanwhile, the Dublin unit of DVZ has been considerably strengthened. The number of file processors was doubled from 13 to 26, effectively taking a transfer decision for most files relating to the Dublin Agreements. In 2020, Belgium was confronted with the consequences of COOVID-19. As a result, the maximum capacity in the closed centres has been reduced. The implementation of the removal decisions is also affected by the measures in force and travel restrictions. I hope, along with you, that we will soon be rid of this virus. In the meantime, my services are continuing to work to maximise the implementation of Dublin decisions in these difficult circumstances. On my question, another structured Dublin meeting was organized between the Foreign Office, Fedsasil and my cabinet. It analyses, inter alia, what additional measures can be taken. For example, we are considering whether the allocation of a compulsory residence for asylum seekers residing in an asylum centre and receiving a Dublin decision could be a solution. For the record, there is no dispute between the Foreign Office and Fedasil. The DVZ and Fedasil work together on how to streamline the allocation of a mandatory residence in an open reception centre with what is possible within the legal and operational framework within which Fedasil operates. This measure could be imposed as a less restrictive detention measure if there is a significant risk of hiding. This could lead to a more efficient follow-up of the transfer decision, which should also lead to more effective transfers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic397x.u54	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for the answer. I hear some things have gone wrong because of the focus on transit migrants. That focus was not entirely unjustified, given the problem. A lot of those people disappeared during the procedure. In addition, it was noted that many people were likely to escape or disappear. However, the detention of these migrants was not carried out because of a lack of space. We all know what caused this, a huge structural lack of place in the closed reception centres, the closed return centres. Something must be done about this. My group believes that far too little is being done to increase capacity in closed reception centres, closed return centres. That really is a structural problem that needs to be solved. With regard to the lack of staff and the increase in staff capacity, including for the Dublin transfers, concrete steps have already been taken, which my group welcomes. If migrants give false addresses and manifest opposition in the procedure, I hope that this will also be included in their files and that they will be taken into account in the future when assessing those files.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic397x.u55	Mr Secretary of State, in connection with the Malika El Aroud case, on 1 March last, you advocated the introduction of visa sanctions for countries that refuse to take their nationals back when they are expelled. In this context, you also expressed a strong message from the EU, which concerns me somewhat. After all, however desirable a firm attitude by the EU in this area, the fact remains that the EU has never used its power to encourage unwilling third countries to cooperate to date. The promised improvement in return policy has therefore remained mainly in the case of announcements. Experience has shown that positive levers, more for more, are not enough to persuade third countries to fulfil their obligations and commitments in this area, simply because there were no sanctions for non-compliance, less for less. In short, the long-term lack of cooperation, or even the outright opposition, of certain third countries shows that it is not enough to give them a root, but also to be prepared to keep a stick behind the door. Morocco is certainly not an isolated case, because other countries, such as Algeria, have not been able to be caught willingly for years. Mr Secretary of State, on the El Aroud case and your response to it, I would have liked to have received an answer to the following questions. In the meantime, have you allowed this issue to be discussed at the forthcoming European Council meeting? Exactly how do you see the visa sanctions or visa favors that you have advocated? Which countries do you think are eligible for this? Do you think that only a stricter, or more flexible, visa regime will be enough to encourage unwilling third countries to cooperate more? Are you prepared to argue at European level for a firm attitude towards unwilling third countries and to provide for other sanctions, including the end of advantageous export tariffs, development cooperation and/or duty-free transfers of funds to countries of origin? Are you prepared to link development cooperation at Belgian level with the willingness of third countries to take back their illegal nationals, especially if there is no EU response?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic397x.u56	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my aim is to contribute to the development of sustainable and trust-based relations between our country and third countries. It is of the utmost importance to have a good understanding with other countries so that difficult dossiers can also be discussed. In the past, for example, a MOU was signed with Morocco. That was a good thing, but unfortunately it was only a temporary appointment and it was only about identifying nationals and not about taking them back. So it was a good first step, but I believe that we should be much more ambitious. Return is one of those more sensitive subjects that can influence the overall relationship in a positive or negative sense. As you know, the government agreement explicitly recognises that this aspect of our foreign policy needs to be better developed. I quote: 'The government will examine what incentives and levers can be used at national or international level to improve cooperation on return'. That's what we're doing. Of course, my research is not limited to visa policy, but it is a slope that I want to continue. Concrete measures can take the form of a visa barrier, such as longer waiting times on issue, or visa benefits, such as visa liberalisations, which already exist for a number of countries in the European context. The eligible countries are both those who cooperate well and those who cooperate poorly. I see opportunities at two levels: bilaterally, in cooperation with other government partners, and Europeanly, for the aspects of visa policy that have been harmonised. The new European Visa Code provides for the legal anchoring of the visa relief mechanism in Article 25a, which allows visa sanctions to be imposed on third countries which do not cooperate sufficiently with regard to return, but also to reward countries that cooperate well with visa advantages. I will put this mechanism on the table at the Justice and Home Affairs Council next Friday. Mr Van Langenhove, you have also asked a question about the instrumentalisation of development cooperation. I can be brief on that. We must ask ourselves what measures we can best sanction countries if we proceed with sanctions. I am convinced that the visa mechanism offers a greater leverage because it affects a particular group within the population, which may make countries more willing to cooperate. Mr Demon, as indicated, I am committed to strengthening our links with countries of origin. I do so both through diplomatic channels and through written agreements and informal agreements. However, there is an important comment to be made on such agreements. History teaches us that it does not make much sense to conclude agreements if they are not respected a few months later. Putting a signature under something isn't an end in itself. What I want to achieve is a relationship with countries of origin which in practice also makes the difference. Case by case, country by country is considered the best strategy and whether more agreements make sense. Since the beginning of the legislature, therefore, I have had an active dialogue with the ambassadors of the countries with which we have important return relations. This afternoon, I will speak to the Moroccan ambassador for the second time. Yes, this time it will also be effective about the El Aroud case.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic397x.u57	Thank you for the clear answer, Mr Secretary of State. My group and I think it is a very good idea and a very good initiative for clarity. I would also like to thank you for the clarifications you have developed. There can be effective deployment on different fronts. It is certainly an opportunity to do so on visas in the first place. I just hope it's progressing fast enough. You say you'll put it on the table on Friday. We will certainly come back to it in committee, including your discussion this afternoon with the Moroccan Ambassador on this specific case and the steps you are taking. If you can achieve results effectively, you have all our support.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic397x.u58	Thank you for your explanation, Mr Secretary of State. I agree with you about the past. If Morocco has only signed an identification, but not a return, what does a signature mean? It is also good that, on the one hand, you will discuss the specific case I have raised and, on the other hand, the overall return policy. I would also like to join Mrs Van Camp in saying that it is a good thing that you will put the proposal on visas on the table on Friday. It is effectively necessary that we monitor this together and come to results. You have said that you will have a second meeting with the Moroccan Ambassador this afternoon to perhaps reach clear agreements. After Friday it is also necessary to see which course we will follow and with what timing. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic397x.u59	The connection has fallen, Mr Demon, but it was all positive, I understand.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic397x.u60	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your comprehensive and in this case very concrete reply. You referred to the coalition agreement which does say that the return must be improved, but it is not very concrete. What we are talking about is a number of sanctions which are already excluded in advance. But we have already talked about this in the past, and I am, of course, not very satisfied with it. You are now saying that visa sanctions are a better lever. Well, that could be true. I hope for you and for us that it will be so in the future. But what if the EU's strong signal remains out? That is why it seems to me and my group that you are already on several slopes and that you are already looking at the possible alternatives, should the EU fail to send that signal. We will soon be able to assess whether these visa sanctions have actually been a better lever. I wish you every success in your meeting this afternoon. We will probably discuss the outcome of this next time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic397x.u61	Mr Secretary of State, I would like to point out that I have already asked several times what happens to migrants who commit, for example, facts of ascension and are arrested, but have to be released again. I hope that question, along with my other questions, will now be answered.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic397x.u62	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you are now familiar with the problem of migration in Zeebrugge. Together with Minister Verlinden, you already made a place visit to discuss the situation. It remains a problematic situation. Recently, migrants have been taking more and more risks, risking their own lives. This way they make more and more use of our marshalling station in Zwankendamme. On this site freight trains are split and assembled to drive towards port area. Transmigrenders are increasingly taking advantage of that moment to live up to their hopes of crossing to Great Britain. They often perform really dangerous maneuvers, to jump on and off trains. For example, there are transmigrants jumping from a bridge or a truck on freight trains and making a hole in the sail. Moreover, these people often do not know how long the containers stay there. It is therefore no coincidence that several emergency calls have already been received from transmigrants. In the last two weeks, at least four rescue operations have been undertaken. Our police services carry out additional checks on certain weak spots, the armies site of Domain Knaps is addressed by placing additional cameras and a new fence. We row with the belts we have. I fear that, given the current situation, this may not be enough. Did you have any contact with the mayor and the chief of police of Bruges about this issue? Will the Foreign Office always be informed of the presence of migrants by the police? What is the DVD's detention policy on undocumented people who are effectively disrupting public order? Do your services take any action to inform those concerned about the possibilities of a stay request in our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic397x.u63	Mr President, the number of interceptions of transit migrants by the police depends on police activity and does not immediately give a representative picture of the presence of transit migrants on the territory. Also, one person can be intercepted several times and thus influence the figures. Of course, it's the police reporting on the interceptions. However, the figures I receive from the police do not show a significant increase in the number of interceptions during the first two months of 2021. A person who is found in a lorry after climbing is, like another stranger without legal residence, detained on the basis of Article 21 of the Police Office Act. For the current public prosecutor's guidelines, please contact the Minister of Justice. In each file for which the DVZ is contacted, a decision is taken by the DVZ on the basis of the individual file. The possible decisions are either an order to leave the territory or a reconfirmation of that order and make it available or a detention at a closed centre. A detention is possible only if there is a prospect of a return for the person concerned to the country of origin or a country competent to deal with the asylum application. As you know, the places in the closed centres are limited, all the more so because of the sanitary situation. The DVZ therefore focuses on the detention of persons who disrupt public order. In 2021, a total of twelve transit migrants were detained in a closed centre in January and February. For 121 people there was a Eurodac hit that prevented the DVZ from delivering an order. Fifty of them declared to be minors; 32 persons received a reconfirmation of an order to leave the territory and 21 people received another decision, e.g. a transfer to prison. For the question of where transit migrants are dropped after release after notification of the decision, I would ask you to turn to the Minister of the Interior. The outreach team of Fedasil informs transit migrants about asylum and voluntary return. The team will be expanded in the short term, as has been clarified several times here in the committee. It is important that transit migrants make their decision on the basis of correct information and not on the basis of myths that circulate and which smugglers abuse. The Foreign Affairs Department, together with the Federation of Belgian Transporters, has also launched a prevention campaign to inform truck drivers about possible ascension of transit migrants. There is also cooperation with the UK Office. Once the new information leaflets are ready, they will also be distributed. The shipping police of Zeebrugge and the local police of Bruges will be involved. I also regularly discuss the approach to the phenomenon of transit migration with fellow Minister Verlinden. However, for the prevention of ascension in lorries by the police and the security of the port, please refer to her. Of course, I also keep in regular contact with the local authorities and will always listen to their concerns.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic397x.u64	Mr Secretary of State, you are referring again to Minister Verlinden. We put these questions to her last time, but she always refers to you, so I think you should sit down together at the table to agree on a sound approach, because this is really umbrella policy, which is not nice and, above all, does nothing to solve the problem on the ground. I hope that you will quickly sit together and come up with concrete solutions to the problem. Our group has already prepared legislative work in this area, for example on the climbing of lorries. I have seen that the liberal groups have copied that proposal, so that can be done quickly. I wonder what you are waiting for, because by pointing the finger at each other, the problem of transmigrants, which you minimize, will certainly not be helped.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic397x.u65	Mr Secretary of State, I welcome the fact that the truck sector is working on prevention, but I would like to point out that the figures and the reality are two different things. We see it: the transmigration is rising enormously again in Zeebrugge. Both from conversations with the shipping police and with the local police, it is clear that transmigration is increasing. Perhaps we should look at whether everything is being properly reported, because the figures are still a challenge. We need to consider whether we should not set up a task force with Justice, Home Affairs and Asylum and Migration to tackle the problem effectively. After all, there is not only a problem in Zeebrugge, but sometimes also in other places on the border. However, we have to deal with the matter. It is not a good thing that people who want to seek happiness in the UK and get caught are released again and try again. That is why we need to set up a task force to identify the situation and find solutions. Perhaps we should take an initiative ourselves, I do not know, but I would ask you to set up a task force anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic397x.u66	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I would like to know whether there are any thoughts about a re-evaluation of the 2007 host law with the aim of adjusting it, following the great wave of migration that we experienced five to six years ago. The management of reception centres by individuals has been pointed out on several occasions. I've already discussed the subject with you. Moreover, ethically speaking, I find it strange that private companies can "take advantage" of these humanitarian disasters. I wonder if it would be better for us to take better care of this and to better frame this management. Secretary of State, would you like to conduct an evaluation of this law? If so, is it possible to re-evaluate the fact that private companies make money on the back of migrants' reception so that the public sector can take up this management better? Could other provisions also be subject to adaptation?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic397x.u67	Mr President, Mrs Jadin, as you know, I intend to make the reception network more dynamic, more flexible and more resilient. Fedasil could count on the structural involvement of private actors in its overall management of buffer places in order to achieve this and to diversify the actors involved in the reception. The number of places managed by private partners accounts for only 5% of the entire reception network. I assure you that the reception which is organised by private operators is just as qualitative as that organised by Fedasil or one of its partners such as the Red Cross. The minimum reception standards shall be laid down in the specifications of the public contract. I do not intend to legally exclude the possibility of using private operators. However, the goal is not to replace federal centres with centres run by private partners. The organisation of a centre by a private operator is an option that will not become the rule. I would remind you that the various public contracts were published at a time when the host network did not have enough places and it was very difficult for the structural partners to create them. A similar situation could occur in the future. I therefore do not think it appropriate to exclude this possibility legally. As you rightly said, five to six years ago, we were faced with a huge increase in demand, and we do not know what the future holds. Overall, the host law will be analysed within the framework of the Migration Code. The legal text will be improved anyway. I cannot tell you what provisions of the law will be amended as preparatory work is still under way.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic397x.u68	Mr Secretary of State, I thank you for having been very interested in answering all my questions, although I realize that, as things stand, you cannot comment on the changes that are to come. At any rate, I encourage you to reinvigorate a new dynamic. And understand us well! I'm a liberal. I will never oppose private initiatives. That goes without saying. We must also, in an emergency, find original, humane and absolutely respectful solutions to the memoranda of understanding to which we are bound. I regret to note, however, that some consider the human tragedies that exist as a boon. Mr Minister, therefore, I can only encourage you to monitor regularly the companies that receive this trust from the public authorities, because it is also our responsibility, as citizens and certainly as elected officials, to ensure that all the commitments to which we are bound are respected within the framework of the rights to which we all wish to comply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic397x.u69	Mr Secretary of State, in the wake of the many concerns expressed by the local authorities regarding the installation of a new reception centre in Spa, the ULB School of Public Health conducted an impact assessment of the covid-19 in terms of the health consequences for the city and its environment, caused by the installation of the refugee centre. The result was recently passed on to Fedasil and SVASTA. Moreover, it is my responsibility that it is planned that the centre will only be open for 12 months, with the possibility of renewing the three-month lease twice. I came from this region. Spadois have become aware of this new information. However, they would like this decision to be acted upon. Mr. Secretary of State, have you read the analysis of the ULB School of Public Health? Will the result affect the installation of the centre? If so, which ones? Can you confirm that it will be open for up to 18 months? As I know you are attentive to this issue, I thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic397x.u70	Jadin, I have read the analysis of the ULB School of Public Health, mandated by the City of Spa. Fedasil's internal process for coronavirus risks is based on the guidelines and actions taken by the relevant regional and federal authorities, quite rightly. This study cannot provide a basis for Fedasil's health policy development. Moreover, this document is not limited to the perspective of health care, since the study goes in all directions. This includes an analysis of prevention and safety, as well as the impact of cultural diversity, economic consequences, etc. I understand that it is not always easy to see a reception centre set up in its commune. That is why I attach great importance to dialogue with local authorities. However, the plans of the spa reception centre cannot – and will not – be modified according to this study. The institution is part of the public market open at the end of 2019 to the private sector in order to temporarily increase the capacity. The framework of this public contract provides for an opening for an initial period of 12 months, with the possibility of a contractual extension of three months on two occasions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic397x.u71	Mr Secretary of State, you are therefore positive on the last question. You confirm to me that this will be done for a maximum of 18 months. I take note of that. I don't want to be misunderstood. I hope I'm not. I also hope that the local authorities in Spa will not be. Everyone is aware of the urgency that exists and of the contribution that everyone, including local authorities, must make in order to find correct solutions. I know you're paying attention to this case. That being said, I think we must also be able to ask ourselves the right questions. This health impact study seemed to me to be an important element to consider. I simply consider that we must have a correct answer to that. I take note of your answer and thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic397x.u72	Mrs Daems, I have already discussed the theme of girls fleeing genital mutilation and their families with civil society. In the short term, we are trying to eliminate the side effects of the current situation. This means a quick examination of the request for regularisation by the Foreign Affairs Office, a proper follow-up of the files by the Commissioner-General and the Foreign Affairs Office and the maintenance of the family. In practice, parents were generally already granted an extension of care during the 9a procedure. In the meantime, Fedasil has taken steps to streamline this policy in all reception centres. My cabinet is also considering the possibility for these parents to create a right of residence linked to the child's refugee status. The right of residence shall not be subject to discretionary powers, as is the case for humanitarian regularisation. I cannot give you any further information at the moment, as my cabinet will examine the issue in greater detail in cooperation with the administrations and the matter will also be submitted to the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic397x.u73	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your reply. The answer is quite hopeful to me; of course we think that the change in the 2019 asylum policy should be reversed. It is really in the interests of the girls who are at risk of genital mutilation in their country of origin, that their parents can get real protection here and that they can also be taken care of by Fedasil. Nobody deserves to sleep on the street.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic397x.u74	Mrs Van Camp, as I said at the previous committee meeting, I would like to explore various ways of promoting return cooperation outside the known formulas. Working on alternatives is necessary because old practices have not always produced the expected results in the past. My approach has always been to look for sustainable partnerships. My proposal to Spain concerns an experimental project, in which we want to develop all the procedures technically well. This therefore requires some time, but as you mentioned in your question, my Spanish colleague immediately responded positively to the initial question. Then I'll get to the effect. I am aware that many legal and practical obstacles await us, but that does not deter me from thinking about possible forms of cooperation out of the box and in a rather unusual format. Not everything needs to be short-term policy, as long as we are structuralally working for better solutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic397x.u75	Mr Secretary of State, your answer does not directly contain new elements. I have tabled this question as a follow-up request and you have repeated a little bit what you said before. You announced at the beginning of January, two months ago, that you would try to reach an agreement on this with Spain. At the moment, however, there is nothing concrete to report on progress. I'll just follow it through the committee. Perhaps you'll have more to report in a few weeks or months.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic397x.u76	Mr President, Mrs Van Camp and Mr Rigot, the roll-out of vaccinations in the care staff is in full swing. In addition, the staff of the Brussels asylum centres were already invited to be vaccinated from the Joint Community Commission. Residents of open and closed centres have not yet been vaccinated. I can't give you a date for the vaccination right now. We are currently awaiting a decision from the Task Force on Vaccination, both for residents of the open and closed centres and for illegal residents. We hope to hear about this decision in the near future. Vaccination will of course take place on a voluntary basis. Practical development will take place in consultation with the Task Force on Vaccination and Asylum Services as soon as a concrete decision is taken. It is up to the experts to assess the order in which the vaccination campaign is rolled out, in the public interest. I have always said that I think we should look at what the experts say in such matters so that we can all get out of the covid pandemic as quickly as possible. I hope that we will do so in the right way. I am confident that the experts will choose the right order and timing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic397x.u77	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. You are more confident than I am, because we are on the eve of the vaccinations, while I am told that instructions are still awaited about when and how exactly everything should be done, instructions that are indeed mainly a task of another department. I think those instructions are a little late. We are now halfway through March and the vaccinations are in full swing, but there is no concrete plan for this yet. I certainly hope that you will be given the instructions quickly and that they will be able to work smoothly in practice.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic397x.u78	Mr President, I would like to join Mrs Van Camp on the need for quick answers to the process; because yes, everyone needs to feel reassured. In large structures such as those in Mouscron, which accommodates nearly a thousand people, it is important to launch a vaccination policy that will quickly achieve a sufficient rate of membership among these people. It's essential. They are vulnerable people. It's community life. We must be careful in the future to activate rapid vaccination.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic397x.u79	Questions Nos 55015043C, 55015044C and 55015047C by Mr Moutquin are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic397x.u80	Mr President, Secretary of State, InfoMigrants has been able to come into contact with a former smuggler, who is now hidden in Europe. Thanks to the detailed information he has provided, the editor now knows more about the routes used by human traffickers who approach migrants passing through Libya. These highly structured organizations at regional, national and even international level surf the chaos of the environment and operate more or less freely in the country, especially in areas close to the Mediterranean coast. Using various documents, videos and audio recordings, this source was able to reveal the detailed operating methods of one of these networks. It tells of the cruelty of these groups and the dehumanization of migrants reduced to the rank of "goods" exchangeable to infinity. It lists the cities and – more rarely – the sites and buildings known to be forced passages on the tortuous route of these migrants. Mr Secretary of State, following this information on the precise functioning of trafficking in human beings in Libya, what action will be taken against this specific network by the European Centre for Combating the Smuggling of Migrants? It is estimated that smuggling of migrants generated a worldwide turnover of 3 to 6 billion euros in 2015, and more than 200 million euros in 2019 on maritime routes to the European Union. What measures will the European Union take to target criminal networks exploiting these migrants? In March 2020, the European Union launched the military operation Irini, which also contributes to the dismantling of the economic model of migrant smuggling networks. This operation ceased operations at the end of March 2020. Why? What will be put in place to continue this struggle? Secretary of State, I am aware of the complexity of my question and I suspect that you do not now have all the tools to answer me. I imagine that the subject will be discussed on Thursday during the discussions you will have with your European colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic397x.u81	Mr President, Mr Rigot, on the specific actions against trafficking networks in Libya by the European Centre for Combating the Smuggling of Migrants, I invite you to ask my colleague, Mrs Verlinden. The example you give shows, once again, that trafficking in human beings is a problem that needs to be addressed at European level. The fight against traffic, and therefore also the methods and routes used, must be considered in a comprehensive manner. In the framework of the Asylum and Migration Pact, presented last September, the Commission announced a new European Action Plan against the Smuggling of Migrants, Plan 2021-2025, which will focus on the fight against criminal networks in line with the Union's security strategy, in order to stimulate cooperation and support the capacities of law enforcement agencies. The new measures and enhanced inter-institutional cooperation will address the challenges in the areas of financial investigations, asset recovery, documentary fraud and new phenomena such as trafficking. The European Union Action Plan will stimulate cooperation between the European Union and third countries through targeted partnerships to combat migrant smuggling. Preparatory work is under way. The European Union will also improve information exchange with third countries and action on the ground by supporting joint operations and joint investigation teams as well as information campaigns on the risks of illegal immigration and legal alternatives. EU agencies should also work more intensively with partner countries on this issue. Common security and defence policy operations will also be able to contribute. The implementation of the ILO Regulation, Immigration Liaison Officer, will also strengthen networks, exchange information, provide support for joint actions in third countries and thus strengthen the fight against the smuggling of migrants. The European Union also supports information campaigns to raise awareness of the threat posed by the smuggling of migrants in countries of origin and transit. Finally, the Commission will examine how to strengthen the implementation of the Directive on sanctions against employers of illegally staying third-country nationals. Recently, Operation IRINI succeeded Operation SOPHIA and was launched in March 2020 to implement the arms embargo imposed by nations. It also contributes to the dismantling of the economic model of migrant smuggling and trafficking networks through the collection of information and the organization of air patrols. The training of the Coast Guard, a secondary task of the operation, was suspended because of the Libyan government's reluctance to the European Union maritime operation. On 18 January 2021, a working agreement was signed with Frontex to strengthen their cooperation and to support each other through the sharing of information gathered as part of the risk analysis activities as well as the data of its aerial surveillance and in order to coordinate their mutual capacity-building efforts. According to my information, in January 2021, the mandate of Operation IRINI was extended for two more years, until 21 March 2023.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic397x.u82	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for this very detailed information. We must indeed redouble our efforts to combat absolutely all this trafficking in human beings. Where there is misery, suffering, there are always men and women to take advantage of it and abuse it terribly. Mr Secretary of State, I have no doubt that you will be attentive to a firm and effective struggle to dismantle these traffickings, to have official, legal and organised migration corridors. At the same time, since the victims of trafficking and their behaviour are unfortunately hiding behind these traffickers, let us not lose sight of the introduction of protective measures against them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic397x.u83	Mr Secretary of State, we are in this same terrible field of human cruelty towards those who are suffering. I was particularly touched by the IOM communiqué, which stated that some 20 migrants had died drowned after being thrown into the sea by their smugglers 30 minutes after their departure from Djibouti. What world do we live in? A scandalous world: that of profit, of traffic! Survivors, treated by IOM in the Djibouti City of Obock, reported that at least two hundred migrants were piled in their boats. These dramas remind us that, even closer to us in the Mediterranean, men, women and children die under similar circumstances. In total, more than 2,000 migrants died trying to cross to Spain in 2020, compared to 893 in 2019, according to a study by the NGO Caminando Fronteras, which monitors migration flows. Europe cannot remain indifferent to the tragedy that is taking place at its doorstep. Mr Secretary of State, what are Belgium's solutions to these crossings before the European Union? Are you so that Europe can participate in rescue operations, with a clear mandate to rescue human lives on the high seas and the resources needed to do so? What are the significant actions taken by the European Union to save lives at sea? How does our country pay attention to the situation of refugees in the Bab El-Mandeb Strait?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic397x.u84	Mr Rigot, with regard to rescues at sea, I am in favour of the establishment of an effective rescue policy at European Union level. However, this policy can only be effective if it is carried out in a broader framework, including effective border control, combined rescue policies and a comprehensive approach, including resettlement policy and the development of legal migration routes. These aspects are present in the new European Pact. This is one more reason to do everything possible to implement it. In this regard, it remains extremely problematic for some Member States to continue to curb its implementation. With regard to the situation of refugees in the Red Sea and Bab El-Mandeb Strait, Belgium does not take any specific action. In order for a policy to have an effect in this area, it is necessary to implement it at European Union level. This is also clearly stated in the European Union Pact. In any event, I believe that the main point is not to thwart the activities of NGOs in the region.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic397x.u85	Mr Secretary of State, thank you. As you understand, a whole series of my questions referred to the European issues that will be on the agenda of your important meeting this Thursday with your colleagues. I will not fail to return to you in order to draw up an account of it. Thank you for all the answers given today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic397x.u86	Mrs Daems, the answer is rather short. It is not customary for us to deal with individual dossiers; I cannot do that either. There is indeed a possibility of submitting a regularisation application. All applications shall be assessed on an individual basis on the basis of elements in the file. I can't say more than that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic397x.u87	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for the answer. I knew you'd answer that. But by not giving Fatma humanitarian regularisation, you also judge her situation, in particular that she is not serious enough to intervene. That decision raises many questions and creates a real family drama.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic397x.u88	Mr Senesael, you will understand that I cannot comment on the issue of license plates or whether an electronic residence card is a condition for obtaining a license plate. On this subject, I invite you to ask my colleague the Minister for Mobility. The Aliens Office is bound by the time limit laid down by the Act of 15 December 1980 for making decisions on the residence of aliens. The issue of electronic residence cards by the municipalities after a positive decision by the Aliens Office is a matter for my colleague the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic397x.u89	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answers.
