ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip132x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip132x.u2	We resume the discussion of the government's statement. We shall resume the discussion of the Government's statement.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip132x.u3	We are starting the debate about the powers of Minister Verlinden.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip132x.u4	There's work and there are things that really interest you. I have to say for me that's such a moment. Why? You are not only the Minister for the Interior, but you, together with Mr Clarinval, are also responsible for the institutional, that is, the Community plans that are on the table of this government. I had doubts whether I would ask you about that, but I have decided to do so. After all, we do not have the chance to see each other very often. The Constitutional and Institutional Renewal Commission is simply being mismastered. This committee does not meet enough, which makes it impossible to organise enough debates. It is Parliament's responsibility to organise its work. The committee will meet on 27 October and 17 November and has not met since the recess. So we haven't seen the minister in our committee since July, just before the summer. That's actually not good. We have real work on the shelf. The agenda management needs to be improved. In addition, we are talking about a vote of confidence. The government is asking for the confidence to do all kinds of things in the coming year. We have already discussed a great deal about the socio-economic aspect, the budgetary table and figures, tax fraud and so on. It is logical that the debate should move towards figures, as the table is presented. The fact that a government does more than just a budget is sometimes less important. We also prepare things, we make legislation, we write about the future. Here we note that the government and you are asking for confidence to do everything in the coming year, including in the institutional field. I don't really know if we can give you that confidence, because I don't know what the government will do next year. In his first speech, the Prime Minister did not mention the institutional issue. I am glad that we have had the thematic debate with the group leaders. However, a number of institutional questions have been raised, particularly as regards the asymmetric policy that would be pursued in the field of work. We have held the debate among all the groups, including Mr Dermagne. That is where the institutional aspect has been touched, but not in the broadest sense, and certainly not in the interventions of the Prime Minister. That's very unfortunate. After all, your government announces all sorts of things. Your government will organise the dialogue platform, the online search, if everything goes well and it doesn't delay. That was originally planned to start in September, which was then postponed to November or December. Now we read in the press that it would be January or February earlier. I haven't had a chance to double-check that with you yet. We must go to the press for this, because the Constitutional Commission is not coming together, but it is going to do so this year. That online search is coming up. That dialogue platform is coming up. Civic interrogation is coming up. They put that in big letters: a team of 11 million. By the way, there is a lot of money being thrown into communicating about that. We therefore expect a great deal of this, except perhaps the Prime Minister, because he does not even find it worthwhile to say half a word about it in his policy statement. Nothing was said about that. There is a huge amount of pooha being sold on this, but we do not know what this will mean and how it will be dealt with. Nor do we know whether the Prime Minister thinks that is a priority. Apparently not really, because he doesn't talk about it. Madam Minister, can you tell us more about this and at least make it clear what the timing of it is? When will that online dialogue platform start? The second issue, which was announced in the coalition agreement, was that all kinds of things would happen, including at institutional level. One of these is that an asymmetric policy would be pursued. This means that powers are not formally divided. They will therefore remain with the federal ministers, but these federal ministers will fill in and apply their powers to Flanders, Wallonia and Brussels in a different way when it comes to land-based issues. So that's splitting up without splitting up. That's interesting. One can do nice things with that. This is widely announced in the coalition agreement. This was discussed in the debates on the Work theme, but my question concerns all other matters. You and your colleague, Mr Clarinval, sent a letter to all ministers, including Tine Van der Straeten sitting next to you, asking them how they would do this. They should answer all that. I asked you a written question on this matter on 20 July. You replied: as announced, after the summer, we will present a report with a state of affairs. I would like to know that state of affairs. It's a little after the summer, but we don't know that yet. A broad exercise on an asymmetrical policy is announced. The theme Work has already been discussed, but we know nothing about all other themes. What did we get? The budget table containing the notifications. Notification 26 on the labour market is slightly more extensive and refers to the place-based policies. There would be a lot of things there, but there is no budget for that, zero euro. So there are no expectations in that respect, no pennies, but we hear some promises. Madam Minister, trust is being asked to do everything with the government next year, but can you at least give us an insight into what will happen next year and what has already happened? If I am disappointed in something in the autumn, it is mainly because of the fact that corona has been mainly a health and safety crisis. You've had a lot of work. Minister Vandenbroucke has had a great deal of work. The other ministers have had less work than you have. First of all, it was mainly a health and safety crisis. I have assumed that all those other ministers, while you were already busy, were also very busy at work, that they would have prepared the restart and the relay and that they had also prepared institutional aspects, an important key to moving forward in the relance steps, which also confirms Minister Dermagne. However, I note that this simply did not happen. From the work that could have happened, we hear nothing. What would Minister Clarinval do to make economic policy more tailor-made so that Wallonia's needs can be met in a much more appropriate way? We don't hear about it. For example, there can also be a rail policy that connects more closely to the buses, so that trains and buses are aligned. We don't hear about it. However, Minister Gilkinet was not in the line of fire during the corona crisis. We have seen him several times, when it was decided that train passengers should only sit at the window. For the rest, the pressure was with you as Minister of the Interior and with the Minister of Health. What did Secretary Gilkinet do in the meantime? That is why I am asking you about the asymmetric policy. I didn't want to talk for long, but I'm interested in the theme, so I'm gonna walk a little bit. In my third question I come to a point that we have again not heard in Parliament, since the Constitutional Commission did not meet, but that we were able to read in the press, which appears to be particularly well informed on the French-speaking side, especially often La Libre Belgique. The MR likes to communicate, which is why we sometimes read something. La Libre is a very good newspaper with very interesting articles, it is the first newspaper I read in the morning. For anyone interested in what this government is doing, this is a reading tip: start with La Libre Belgique. Occasionally there is also some in other newspapers, among others in Le Soir. My third question concerns what was to be read in Le Soir about your institutional ambitions. In Le Soir of 6 October, from which I quote, it was stated that after Easter, but perhaps in a more realistic scenario during the summer of 2022, an internal political debate will be launched within your government, which will examine what is possible to do. Apparently, therefore, an institutional agenda with dates has been agreed within your government. To this end, concrete draft laws will be prepared, which are even specified in Le Soir. In the dynamics, you and Minister Clarinval are asked about what texts this is about and you are mandated to contact other groups and parties to see if a majority can be found. That's in a timing with a debate for next year. We are therefore being asked to express our confidence in what you will do next year in the vote. I'd like to know if the news in the paper is correct. Has your government indeed agreed to discuss institutional legislation during the Easter period? My fourth question is about accountability. Perhaps you have followed the debate yourself, perhaps your staff have informed you, and there has been a whole debate during this budget debate on how to respond to illness and the reintegration of sick people. Tables and notifications have been made. Essentially, the discussion is that it is not entirely clear how the notifications should be read. It's about this. There are people who are long-term ill and who need to be accompanied to the labour market. There are several routes, with the penalties of 2.5 %. However, that is less your store. Relevant for you to know that this would happen for a piece of asymmetrical. So there is an institutional part to it. We read in the notifications that the activation of people who are long-term ill would vary proportionally depending on whether the regions are already lagging behind or not. That's the situation. From then on, the storylines are different. A first interpretation says that it is not only the case that there is a different economic reality, but that there will also be a different response and that the regions lagging behind will receive more support. Understand, Wallonia will receive more support than Flanders. That is the first reading, that is the reading that we are making, but which was also made by Minister Crevits in the Flemish Parliament, hence Mrs Van Peel's speech just now. Another reading is the lecture by Minister Vandenbroucke. He says that it is not right that we should not look at the region that is lagging behind, that we should only look at the amount. There it would be that 4,000 euros per route would be awarded per activated and that it does not matter whether it is someone who happens to live in Flanders or Wallonia. I don't know if you know the answer. Which of the two lectures is correct? If the answer can be looked up later, it's okay. However, it is necessary to have clarity about this, because there is a difference in reading. It is not a deliberate strategy to misread things, the notifications are what they are. I didn't write them. I can only say that they give rise to confusion. That's the question about the response. The last question is about political renewal. That is a subject which has been dealt with only side by side in the debate. I always regret that, because politicians are best placed to set an example to those efforts of the population. If, for example, savings are made in departments, when additional taxes are introduced, what your government is doing for more than a billion euros, when things are decided that are not good or not very popular, then it is better to show as politicians that we are aware that it is difficult and therefore setting a good example. We see in the notification that there would be an effective demand for savings on the Chamber, the Senate, the political parties and the institutions entitled to donate. However, it does not mention that the government would also save itself, for example, that the cabinets would be smaller. There is good news, you do not have to answer that question, the Prime Minister has answered it in the meantime. The Prime Minister has made it clear that it is also intended that the government will do the same saving exercise. By the way, there's a little room for that. As a reminder, your government is 25% more expensive than the previous government, so you can get 1,11 % off it. Minister Verdeinden, a personal note, if you are looking for that saving from your own cabinet, I would ask you not to do so with the people who are in the process of institutional reform. After all, they're not that many, maybe you can make that exercise at another cell. Why do I mention this theme? You will say that there is no news, because the Prime Minister has already replied. The reason is that there's something else in it. It states that the number of employees per former minister will be reduced from 2024 onwards. Everyone, especially on the Dutch-speaking side, agrees that this system is no longer of this time. The fact that an ex-minister can keep two employees for an entire legislative period after that is really too much of the good and also feeds anti-politics. In Flanders, that system was adapted and completed a long time ago. We have tabled a legislative proposal in the Constitution Committee to amend it. That committee barely gets together, but we see that it can finally work out. I have two questions. First of all, why didn't it start from 2024? I know the answer, because the MR didn't want it earlier, because the party has a lot of ex-ministers. However, I would like to see that answer confirmed. The government could have given the signal to go further, to be more ambitious. The political parties could also take this initiative themselves. They're not obliged to include those employees. That could be an immediate saving. Unfortunately, the savings will only be made from 2024 onwards. Why couldn't we do that with immediate effect? Who's on the brake? Can't a little extra gas be given there? My second question is addressed indirectly to you, but above all to colleagues. Our bill is in the Constitutional Committee. We understand that the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance has also drafted a legislative proposal along these lines. That proposal has not yet been considered, but it would come. What's the coincidence? The Constitutional Commission does not come together much, but now it meets on 17 October. The priority legislative proposals, including ours, will then be dealt with. So it will be on the table there and it can simply be approved there. This is a question that I put to all the groups through you. I hope that you will all act immediately and vote in favour of the bill and that for once you will not see who signed that bill, which is the N-VA. We are very sorry that we submitted that a long time ago. We would like you to look at the content and say that it is indeed time that this was abolished. You could approve that bill. That was a number of questions about the institutional part. I see that colleagues are eager to discuss the issue of Home Affairs with you. Thank you very much for making some time available for your other competence in this important annual debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip132x.u5	Madam Minister, like Mr Loones, I hesitated to intervene in the discussion of your policy area. I do it anyway because I have to say that after 22 hours of debate on the policy statement, we have not yet spoken about police and security. Allow me to find that very strange. In fact, I do not find much of this in the Prime Minister's policy statement. We only read that violence against the police is not acceptable. The opposite would have surprised us and that 1,600 police inspectors are wanted, a whim that we have heard for several years now. From the budgetary tables, the notifications we are concerned with, we can only conclude that the NAVAP, the scheme in question with the police forces, must be of an extinct nature by 2023. Madam Minister, I must therefore insist on a few points, because I have to do so, because I want to keep you informed and also because I would like to ask you a few questions on these points. First of all, what about the recruitment of police inspectors? I read this week, in De Tijd if I am not mistaken, that this role would henceforth be reserved for the local police zones. Those 185 local police zones and the different branches of federal police now have to find their own candidates, so that the recruits are sure of a job after graduation. Madam Secretary, not everyone agrees on that. I refer, for example, to Mr Vandenput, mayor in Hoeilaart, chief of a rather small police area, who complains that he not only has too few men but is also very difficult to find additional recruits. They prefer to go to the Brussels police zones, which can swing with different premiums. I can also refer to Professor Jelle Janssens of Ghent University who expressed his doubts about the new system in the press: "The big zones will be pleased with that, because they have enough money and resources to recruit themselves; it is not self-evident for the little ones. You can bet on social media and try to stand out, but how effective is that if everyone does it? The reform is taking a step away from the integrated police." So, Minister, my question is how you feel about this criticism. Perhaps even more important is the question when this new recruitment plan will enter into force. Is it still open to adjustment? Secondly, the Prime Minister referred to the violence against the police. I do not need to repeat all the questions I have asked in committee and in plenary. However, I would like to reiterate my plea that, in addition to stricter penalties for the perpetrators and a lick-on-piece policy, on which everyone agrees, we should also carry out an evaluation of the Police Office Act, in this case under Article 37, so that policemen can once again develop their monopoly on the use of force when their physical integrity is compromised. You once announced that you would be a bourgeois party to any incident, any victim that would fall on the police side. In the meantime, I wonder if that's a daily meal for you? Are you also putting into practice the promise you made? By the way, it would be a good signal to the police if you really did. Thirdly, an important point of discussion is the financing, or rather the refinancing, of the local police zones. Madam Secretary, it's been a long time. I think there's a pain point coming up here. We have held interesting hearings in the Committee on the Interior. The colleagues who are here can also confirm this. We heard, among other things, a number of professors and agencies as well as people from the field. What emerged was that, above all, there should be a vision of how the police structure, local and federal, should be put together before thinking about funding the police areas. I found that a very interesting starting point. The impression is now emerging, Madam Minister, that you are not just putting it on the long track, but that you have not yet come up with a vision of what the restructuring of the police zones should be like. Madam Secretary, I know that you are working with a State General, with a number of working groups. What's the status? When do you intend to submit your homework to Parliament? Finally, I would ask you not only to support the police forces with words, as we hear enough of them here in Parliament, but also with financial acts. You know that the wages of the police have been frozen for 20 years. I hope that wage negotiations with the police representatives will be possible. In addition, I hope that the NAVAP scheme will remain in place. In fact, I wanted to question the Prime Minister about this in plenary last week, when you were apologized. He gave me an answer that there wasn't any. In other words, he didn't say anything. That is why I am asking you today, Madam Secretary. What about the NAVAP scheme? You know that this subject is very sensitive in political rings, it is not a piece of paper. As I said last week, it is an arrangement that has been established at KB, so it cannot and should not be the intention to throw them overboard, especially without involving the police's trade unions. If you do not do all that, I fear that you will have very difficult autumn days and that the police will remember you, above all, as a Minister of the Interior who unfortunately could not keep her promises, a minister of a government of broken promises. I hope you can give us some clarity, not just Parliament, but also the people on the ground. After all, we must have the greatest respect for our police forces.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip132x.u6	Minister, I will confine myself to a few questions on two fronts. The first focuses on the resources devoted to the police. I am basing myself on the Prime Minister's statements, on your policy brief for the past year, and on this government's speech to the police, particularly regarding the respect it deserves and the valorization of its work. But this respect does not translate into reality. With regard to the NAPAP file, police officers from the gendarmerie could leave at 56 years of age. This situation has been overturned by the Constitutional Court and is expected to reach 62 years of age. NAPAP therefore acts as a pre-pension non-activity scheme to enable them to leave four years earlier. Minister, you have been responsible for evaluating and optimizing this NAPAP system. The aim was to deploy the police officers concerned in appropriate functions, to discourage the choice of non-activity and, eventually, to abolish the regime. We have recently obtained this information from the trade union community. Minister, do you confirm that you are considering the removal of NAPAP? If so, do you find this compatible with the speech that calls for respect for the police? The police visited you last June to claim a salary increase. Have you planned a share of the budget for the salaries of these workers who have not changed in 20 years, excluding indexation? In your policy note, you commit to spending one third of the police budget on new commitments. In the budget table provided by the government, we do not see increases in personnel. Do you confirm that you started hiring the 1,600 agents as promised? You also stress the importance of fighting organised crime and say that you want to place particular emphasis on tax fraud and financial offences. What budget do you allocate to this position? How many new agents will be hired to devote themselves strictly to this struggle? You say, in the policy note, that you increase the number of specialized chief inspectors in 2021. What about today? How many new Chief Inspectors have you hired this year compared to last year? The second priority I wanted to ask you about is the security aspect for our citizens. Again, there is a gap between speech and action because the government is not putting the necessary resources in place to ensure the safety of our fellow citizens. You yourself say you want to commit 100% to ensure maximum security. In practice, there is a problem in emergency areas, particularly among firefighters. In terms of funding, the federal government is expected to fund 50 per cent of the relief areas. The remaining 50% are divided between the Region, province or communes. In fact, the federal government finances only a small 20%, leaving the entire burden to the other entities. Is this ensuring the safety of our citizens at 100%? By failing to respect the funding that the federal government should provide for the operation of the relief zones? In the Regions, especially in the Walloon Region, some provinces can no longer finance relief areas. It's everywhere, in every province, actually. They can't afford it. I correct: it is not that they do not have the means to finance the relief zones, but they do not have the means to pay instead of the federal! This is especially so, because the federal government must fund up to 50%. For the time being, however, only 20% of this funding has been allocated. Is not respecting this 50% a way of ensuring the safety of citizens at 100%? I come to the question of the victims who are abandoned by the political world. I do not know if you are aware of Mr. Collignon's last statement, who is Minister of Housing in the Walloon Region. It decided to cut funding and subsidies for victim assistance in police areas. He believes, and I think he's right, that it's federal jurisdiction and that it's the federal government that has to pay. In these two cases, we find that there is a policy in which we refer to the hot potato, from one level to another and, during this time, the safety of the Belgians in general is not ensured. I take the example of the floods that have revealed the flaw and absence of our country. We're busy beating each other up to figure out who has to pay what and, in the meantime, we're giving up people. Is that what we mean by "100 percent commitment to ensure maximum security"? Minister, since you and this government are committed to ensuring the safety of people, as announced by Mr. De Croo, what are you going to do to strengthen our civil protection? Are there any plans for additional staff? The Prime Minister said that yesterday, but he did not provide any clarification. Do you have more precise information? What is the budget for civil protection? How many more jobs are planned? Do you intend to reopen the four barracks out of the six that were closed and buy the equipment that was sold and missed us well during the floods? Will you assume the share of federal funding in the funding of relief areas? As I told you, in Wallonia, Minister Collignon cut off the two million euros that were spent on victim assistance in police stations, arguing that this was a federal jurisdiction. Will you take charge of these two million euros in order to follow up the victims and give them the information they need so that they can get the help they need? What is the federal government's provision for victim assistance? Will you ensure this support that the Regions no longer want to assume because it is not within their competence but yours? Where does it appear in the budget tables in terms of victim assistance? I have not seen anything in this regard. Is there a budget? For the past year, it has been said that this is a priority and that we must inject means in this direction, but I have found nothing in the picture. Maybe I wasn't paying attention. If an amount exists, could you let me know? What is the investment in disaster reduction? We talked about it during the flood commission. In particular, mention was made of the fact that there was no disaster plan, no evacuation plan. What is the situation? Is there a federal evacuation plan? What about the strengthening of the risk culture that you spoke about following our meeting? My questions are factual. They seek to know the means that have been made clear because it was not clear either in the picture or in the Prime Minister's speech. I hope, Madam Minister, that you will be able to provide the necessary answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip132x.u7	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have also listened very well and for a very long time today, almost 23 hours, and I am beginning to feel it, but I would like to pick up on some of the things I have heard about concerns that we share, but which I may be more positive about than I have heard so far. It's all about the police. I'll start with the recruitment. Every year there would be 1,600 recruits in the police force. It is also about the role of the local police zones and the tasks of the federal police. Of course, it differs from one police zone to another, but my own police zone is very enthusiastic about this because it has much more say. I am also very excited about the number of recruits we should be able to get. We always see an increase in the figures for people who can start training every year. In 2017, 971 people were selected, in 2018 1,010 people and in 2019 1,134 people. For the year 2020, I have not yet requested the figure. In 2021, the year hasn't even been over, 1,261 people have already been selected for basic training. Moreover, since 14 September, the new selection procedure has been introduced, which means that the procedure will be much shorter in the future, and its duration will fall from 11 to 13 months to 4 months, so I have every hope that there will be a good inflow. However, it is very important that I should like to point out that we are not only looking at the selection procedure but also at the training itself. We have already had a lot of interesting hearings on the refinancing of local police. These hearings have at least the merit of opening a good debate. As the professors said, there must first be a good vision of the police structure. We have started the States-General for this and there are a lot of working groups on this. You have also often said, Madam Minister, that you want Parliament to be involved in this very regularly. I therefore hope that we can come to a very good debate on this. That can only improve the entire police force and its refinancing. Finally, I would like to say a few words about the NAVAP scheme. It is true that this is a very sensitive item. I feel that myself as mayor of a city in a police zone, because police officers in my area also speak to me about this with their concerns. It is good that we have again provided funds for this in 2022, but it is even more important that we provide a structural solution that can provide people with peace of mind in the long term so that it does not come back every year. I am counting on a good plan from you, Madam Minister, and I have no doubt that you will do your best to do so. Come on, you'll be happy to support that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip132x.u8	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to congratulate those with perseverance for being here for almost 24 hours, to get the most hot topic on the agenda, as Minister for the Interior. Mr Loones, you asked important questions, which are also close to my heart, about institutional reforms and democratic renewal, which indeed belongs to my competence, together with Mr Clarinval. It is the case, and this also applies to the debate on the other subjects, that we are, of course, talking today about the budgetary conclave and the figures. The debate on the direction to be taken has not ended. You rightly said, about ten times, that the committee agenda is determined by this Parliament. We will have an extensive opportunity to discuss the content of this direction, including at the committee meeting on 27 October, which is no longer an eternity. We can then discuss this at that time. We do indeed have a policy paper in preparation on institutional and democratic renewal. Despite the fact that the cabinet and the administrations involved have been very busy managing a number of crises over the past few months, not only corona but also the floods, Jürgen Conings and the cyberattack, we have not been idle in institutional reforms. Important steps have been taken, fully in line with the commitments we made last year. This is not just about the online platform. I'll talk about that in a minute. We have also set up a joint parliamentary committee to evaluate the past state reforms and discuss the possibilities for division of powers and the like. We have taken the initiative to question the federal but also the sub-state administrations and to ask them for bottlenecks and fact sheets in relation to the division of powers so that we can take this into account in the debate. The Consultation Committee decided to proceed with an interfederal task force on state reform. These are all initiatives that have been put on track and with which we are absolutely moving forward. Indeed, we want to set up the online platform as part of the dialogue platform as a step towards further substantive debate. I want to confirm that this is a puzzle piece in the great exercise we're making. This is not the end of the story. The necessary budgets to launch the online platform have been made available.What we do, we want to do well in terms of content as well as in terms of communication so that everyone has the time and opportunities to participate in it in an informed way, because this is an important theme. For example, the information process of the population, civil society, academics and local authorities can proceed in a good way. For the guidance of the content we have launched a government contract. That is what that timing applies to. I can confirm that this online survey will be held at the beginning of 2022. It'll run for about six weeks. The results will be taken into account in the further decision-making process. It is important that we do this in a good way, rather than moving too fast and overlooking certain things. The government also decided, just before the recess, to provide a budget of EUR 1.1 million for communication and content, to know how to present issues to people in such a way that they can give their findings and suggestions in a sound way. That step has been taken, too. The necessary preparations are being made for this. Your second point was about asymmetric policy. It is true that we have taken the initiative of asking all the relevant ministers about their areas of competence, but also to encourage them to look for opportunities for an asymmetric policy. I am not going to take back the duties of my colleagues, but there are plenty of opportunities and moments to question them about this. The government agreement focused mainly on an asymmetrical labour market policy. Meanwhile, steps have been taken to respond to the outstretched hand of Flemish Minister Crevits. As you know, in the Flemish Parliament, about fifteen themes were set out in which an asymmetric policy would be possible. Yesterday, Minister Crevits said in the Flemish Parliament that the asymmetric policy was put in place for many themes. This is also made possible by Mr Dermagne when it comes to the mobility of workers, the availability of job seekers, the combination of benefits with training or work, the possibility of combining benefits with work so as to enable long-term sick people to resume partial work. Many of these 15 issues have been addressed. This will enable an important step to be taken in terms of asymmetric policies in the labour market. These place-based policies, which were announced in the coalition agreement, were also confirmed yesterday by Minister Crevits in the Flemish Parliament. You also asked a question about the ambitions of institutional reform. As I have just said, we will have the opportunity to discuss this extensively at committee meetings this month and next month. What you read in Le Soir is correct. We will have a political debate after we have the results of the online survey, on the basis of the bottlenecks sheets collected from the administrations and on the basis of the evaluation by the Joint Parliamentary Committee of the last six state reforms. I am sure you know better than I that we do not have any timing on this, as if it could be completed in the summer of 2022, but I would be surprised if there could be no debate on institutional reform in the summer of 2022, in any forum or in any way. With the initiatives we have launched for 2022, we are more determined than ever to continue doing so. Your last question was about political renewal. I saw your comment about my cabinet and the number of staff involved in the state reform coming a long way. I am always surprised that you are always talking about numbers, but not about quality. You stick to the question of quantity, but perhaps we disagree or I did not understand your question. In any case, I have the honour to be surrounded by the best staff on institutional reform, who are already working hard to set up and follow up all the initiatives, so quality is guaranteed. The agreement that was made on the number of employees for ex-Ministers will enter into force in 2024, which also seems to me no longer to be an eternity. Allow me to say that this question always surprises me, especially if that question comes from someone who has always used it extensively. It seems to me to be a good and logical decision to revise that regulation. Of course, this is not the only answer to the questions of democratic renewal and the restoration of public confidence in politics, but it is an important step in this direction. It will be a great pleasure for me to continue the institutional debate in committee. Mr Depoostere, you say that not much has been said about police and security. I have heard things here and there, including in the speeches by the group leaders and in the reactions to them, your first question was about recruitment. Mr Boukili also asked a question about this. I was somewhat surprised by your intervention. It seems that what is in De Tijd has hit you harder than what we have discussed repeatedly in committee, Tuesday. The recruitment is by no means entirely left to the local areas. However, provision has been made for a system of matching supply, i.e. aspirants, with demand, i.e. the demand for capacity in the various services. That's not only in the local areas, but also in the federal police services. In this way, it is possible to ensure that there is a faster commitment, that one can be registered, that one can also be employed in workplace learning in order to ultimately function in the function one is intended to perform. It's obvious that everything is aligned. Many experts have confirmed that this ensures a faster matching, a relationship between the aspirants and more enthusiasm to start. This is only conducive to the number of aspirants and the number of inspectors who can actually start after their training. Under the old concept, many zones already carried out certain recruitment campaigns. It is not new that local zones and federal police services are trying to communicate their model and activities to aspirants so that they can get people into their corps. It is not wrong that there is active communication about what the job content is. There are perhaps a thousand different tasks in the police. It is obvious that the service itself communicates about this. You say it's left to the local police zones. That's a lot of bridges too far. There is a recruitment concept that applies to everyone. The aspirants can only better adapt to the demand that exists from the different services. You also asked when the new recruitment plan was launched. I did not have to dig far into my memory to know that we also announced this and discussed it in the committee last week. The plan was launched on 15 September. We have campaigned and communicated a great deal about the plan. A lot of people have come for it. The new concept is now running. It has been well communicated with all the parties involved. I believe that the fact that we have been able to limit selection time, which is far and far shorter than before, will have a positive impact on the lead time and on the number of aspirants. As Mr Moyaers pointed out and although the figures vary from day to day, there are already around 1,400 aspirants in the pipeline in 2021. This means that, if everything goes well, we must always speak with two words, the proposed number of 1,600 aspirants will be reached in 2021. It is the determined will of everyone involved to continue the project in the coming years, so that the movers are compensated by new start-ups. In addition, an additional fill-in of existing deficits can be ensured. Mr Boukili, you asked how many new agents were going to be engaged in the fight against organized crime. I can confirm that we will hire 400 new candidates for the federal police and some of them will fill the deficit in the Federal Judicial Police. Your second question about the violence against the police, Mr Depootere, was not very surprising either. Many initiatives have already been taken. You always focus on bourgeois parties, but I do not think that is the only story. We have made sure that their reporting can improve, that police inspectors are better aware of their rights: what they can do, what assistance they can get, etc. We have agreed with the Minister of Justice to optimize that punishment. I think I can answer yes to the question of whether I kept my promise around the bourgeois-party stand. I can't do that for all the members of the police force, because for the members of the local police, the local government has to do that. Two weeks ago I said here that in the event of serious incidents I am trying to keep in contact with the local authorities, such as recently in Molenbeek and in Ghent. The local directors have confirmed to me that they will take the initiative for the bourgeois election. We do that ourselves for the federal police. As we have always said, we do so where and when indicated. If there is no reason, because there is persecution or because the victims see it differently, we will opt for the most appropriate approach to criminal proceedings. We do not just do that, but we want to ensure that the perpetrators of these serious acts are punished. And we do that in a proportionate and adequate way. A third point concerns financing. Mr. Boukili also referred to it. I think it is a good thing that there are as many hearings as possible. I fully share your view that we need to have a vision of the structure and what we expect from the organisation of the police. It is precisely for that reason that one of the spearheads of the States-General of the Police with which we want to prepare the future of the police organisation and operation. You have rightly said that many people have bitten their teeth on the financing of the zones. We have brought this issue together in a single debate with the ideal size, because these things are related: how can police zones organise themselves properly to ensure that the various tasks they have to carry out today can be provided to the population? So it is certainly not the case that there is no plan and that we do not know how to work with that vision. We launched that State General this spring and will continue to do so in the coming weeks and months. We have already announced on this, I repeat myself, that we are going to carry out a mid-term review next spring on the basis of an interim event, and that vision will continue to roll out by the end of next year or early 2023. That is a very important question. You're right to say that nothing has been done about it for 20 years. I think we can say with some optimism that that is a glove that we take in and that we are working on it. We do this together with an external partner, to ensure the necessary objectivity of the analysis and of our project. I think there was also a question from Mr Boukili about this, but it focused on the relief areas. As far as the wage agreements are concerned, you said they've been frozen for 20 years. Mr Boukili, negotiations on a new sectoral agreement have begun with the trade unions. We have made proposals. The expectations of the unions were obviously even higher. It wasn't a surprise. Yesterday, however, I had a positive and constructive meeting, thanks to the position of the trade unions, on the sectoral agreement but also on NAPAP. It is important to know that local authorities are also involved. I therefore do not want to negotiate a sectoral agreement and send part of the bill back to the local authorities. It wouldn't be very smart to do it like that. We have therefore agreed that we will continue the negotiations at a pace appropriate to the situation. It is clear that all the actors involved must be involved. We agreed with the unions on this scheme. We will therefore do our best to improve the inspectors' position. As far as NAPAP is concerned, it was also an important item on the agenda during the discussions on the budget. This year, we managed to have clarity on the means available in 2022, unlike in previous years when these discussions took place during the control of the budget. This means that for both the local police and the federal police, the budget for NAPAP will be set. I also discussed it with the unions yesterday. But if this system exists, I do not think the aim is to take up his pension as quickly as possible. In terms of the capacity of police officers, we need to find ways to ensure that police officers continue their work. They have experience and expertise. The goal is not to be pensioned as quickly as possible, but to provide for supervision, a context where police officers can continue to work. I believe that this is already happening today. Half of those who can go on NAVAP will continue to work longer. There's more we can do. We need to have an important debate on the framework, on leadership, on the organisation of the police to promote workable work. I understand very well that it is difficult for certain interventions at a certain age after a long career to continue to carry out these interventions in the same way. This does not mean that we can no longer have any added value for the police. On the contrary, there are still many possibilities and we need to find systems to extend the career. Mr Boukili, this is a matter of respect for the police. As you said, it is necessary to discourage the choice of non-activity not only with money, but also through supervision and a context that encourages police officers to work. That is the subject of the discussion that we are going to have. Mr Depoostere, you said that this should be cancelled from 2023. The agreement that has been made is that we will look at the system against budgetisation 2023. An extinguishment that is already provided for, because it is not an everlasting system. It is a system for people who were in a certain position at some point, so that is an important nuance that we need to apply. With regard to the relief areas, Mr Boukili, it is true that the federal ambition was to provide funding of 50%. It is true that the question of this 50/50 distribution is difficult and sensitive. We are well aware that there are many elements involved. Investments that can be decided by the relief zones themselves also involve the budgets of the areas. In addition, the 50/50 distribution also depends on the organization of investments that local relief areas decide. But what is certain and certain is that we continue to invest more in the relief areas. This year too, an additional 10 million are planned for relief areas, as was done last year with an additional 25 million. The evolution towards the optimal balance between the funding of local and federal authorities is taking place. That's positive. As far as security is concerned, what you are saying is somewhat reducing. You say that the government is not doing everything it can for the safety of our fellow citizens. For example, in relation to the floods, there is still a presence, with all the relief services, the police and the federal support cell working with the special police station for the reconstruction of Wallonia, to coordinate, see what can be done, to hire the Civil Protection for the clean-up. We do what we can with the current means. In fact, other initiatives are being announced for flood victims. It is not only the loan granted by the federal authority to the regional authority, there is also the rate of VAT that is reduced for reconstruction, etc. As far as civil protection is concerned, we are going to make sure that investments are increased. As you know, the statutory personnel executives were not filled in previous years. We'll make sure they are now. Finally, you asked a question about civil protection reform and the organisation of our crisis management structure. We have already discussed this on several occasions. You know we're going to set up a learning commission for the lessons learned from the floods. As for Civil Protection, we have already launched a market to evaluate the reform, to determine whether we need forward-looking posts or adjustments to the reform decided a few years ago. Thus, we are following up on a resolution by Parliament last year. It is normal, logical and intelligent to carry out this work in a thorough manner. If the structure or organization were to be changed, the decision will be taken after consultation with all stakeholders and a thorough reflection. Don't wait. I am completely convinced of this because we cannot prevent new natural disasters from occurring.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip132x.u9	Are there any reactions and replicas? Mr Loones has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip132x.u10	Madam Secretary, we've been busy for a while. We've been debating for a day and I thought I'd keep it in fact, good and cozy. I'm a little surprised at your style of answers and the personal sneer at the end of your speech. I'll get back to you later. It is, by the way, a sneak that does not correspond to the facts. But if that's the style of your answer and you want to keep talking, I'd be happy to go along with it and talk in my reply. What do you say in your answer? Mr Loones, we better do it right than want to go too fast. As far as institutional matters are concerned, no one in this Parliament has the impression that you are moving too fast. You're not at risk there. I'd like to go over the examples you list. You put the glove ready, and I'm happy to take it. You say that you are available to answer in the Constitutional Commission and to hold the debate there. In August, I will ask the services of the Chamber when the Constitutional Commission meets? I repeat that question in September and on 6 September the services reply that they only get two dates fixed by the ministers to come to committee together. We are looking for a third date because we see that the agenda is too heavy. I get the answer: 'We are currently looking for the extra date that would suit both ministers.' On 6 September, therefore, both your cabinet and Minister Clarinval's cabinet were contacted. I repeat that question and on 15 September I get an answer: 'No additional date has yet been found.' Two weeks later I repeat the question and on 6 October I get an answer: 'No date has always been found. Indeed, you can now easily say that you are at the disposal of Parliament and that the Parliament organises and organises its work. That's right. That is why we need to discuss the organisation of the Constitutional Commission. There is also a responsibility for you, Madam Secretary. You could take the issue of institutional reform to heart and take proactive steps. You could offer yourself to Parliament to take this issue very proactively. The institutional has been put on the market as the trophy of the CD&V. It's your trophy and your party's. Instead of waiting for you to be invited by Parliament, you could also be very proactively available. You could say that you are clearing your agenda and that you will do everything possible to be available to Parliament as soon as possible. However, I note that the services tell me that they are looking for a third date and that they are not getting the two Cabinets in line. Of course, it may also be that the mistake is with Minister Clarinval. That could be perfect, but you might still be able to offer yourself. As far as I'm concerned, come to the committee alone. However, moving all responsibility to Parliament is a bit easy. Secondly, you are referring to the fact that a joint committee on state reform has been set up. This is not about you, but about the committee. This committee is a joke, isn't it? That Joint Committee on State Reform has already met four times and we have still not done anything in substance. Now Friday, for the first time, the committee will have a hearing on the subject of health care. For the first time, something substantive will happen, after the fourth or fifth meeting. It is ridiculous how little serious that exercise is taken. At the time when the agenda had to be set, we said that we should seize at least the current opportunity and also talk about labour market policy. Why? The Flemish government is asking for asymmetric policy and the federal government seems willing to allow it and Minister Dermagne is doing so. We would have liked to have heard the consensus of this purple majority in this joint committee Chamber-Senaat? But they don't want to talk about it. Labour market policy must be dealt with later. We now want to focus on three themes and the labour market is something for later. That's how little serious that exercise is being done. I find this unwise from the purple-green majority. Thirdly, that's a bit more about you, Madam Minister. You say that you have asked the administrations to make sheets on what is not going well institutionally and what can be done better. There too I read in the press and I know from a number of other contacts that the decision to produce the sheets was taken in April. However, the instruction to make these chips would only have been given very recently after the summer. If my information is wrong, I'd love to hear it. At least it was in the press reading it. It was in Le Soir, I think. You said about Le Soir just now, about another press article, that that newspaper is well informed. I would have liked to ask you in committee, but since there are no meetings, I ask you here. I know that the Flemish administration has been working on this for quite some time. The fourth example is the dialogue platform. I'd like to outline the framework. This would start in the spring of next year, beginning of 2022. You said there too, let us do it well and not too quickly. Well, it's not going too fast, is it? It would be before September, then November and now spring. The article in Le Soir even said that it would be left even further behind. What does it turn out to be? We need a delay because only one person has submitted a tender. We'll read that again in the press. That offer would also be irregular because there was a signature or something missing. Is that information correct, ma'am, and why is that? After all, it is a huge project and there are a lot of budgets attached to it, but apparently only one person is sufficiently capable or interested to submit a tender. I find that very special. These may all be coincidences, but there are a lot of them together. It's five coincidences together. The last point is that you accuse me of always talking about the Cabinets about quantity and not about quality. I know very well the quality of the lawyer who works in your cabinet. That's one hell of a talent. You may kiss both hands that someone like him wants to be active and pull this file. The fact remains, however, that you have a cabinet of everything including 42 employees. I just recounted it again and it's on the federal website. But you only have one substantive officer for the state reform and on top of that you have a coordinator for political renewal and democratic reforms. I rely on the information on the official website of the Belgian government. If that information is not correct, I would advise you to amend it, Madam Secretary. The information that's on it has to come from somewhere and it certainly doesn't come from me. If it's wrong, you don't have to blame me, but you have to instruct your Cabinet Secretary to ensure that that information is passed on correctly. It is public information and it is common for it to be published. I read what it says. You have a cabinet of 42 employees and actually only one lawyer working on it full-time. You will notice that I did not sleep last night and that you responded a little too directly. Secondly, the asymmetric policy. You rightly refer to the fact that there has been a lot of debate on the subject of work. I have also referred to the fact that this has been the theme of the day. But in addition, my question was what happens to all the other themes and all the other ministers. You reply there that there were enough opportunities for me to ask every Minister of Industry. I saw that reply coming from a long way, Madam Minister, because I had already received this answer once. That's why I've been asking all that Minister of Commerce. I have done so and they have told me that this is for coordination with Mrs Verlinden. I also put that question in plenary to the Prime Minister, who actually gave the same answer. 'I refer to Mrs Verlinden', the Prime Minister said. I then asked you that question again and you informed me that it belongs to the trade ministers. What have I done again? I have once again asked Mr De Croo, Prime Minister of your government, to ask what is really going on here. Who's gonna coordinate that because I'm being sent from the locker to the wall? But unfortunately, also Prime Minister De Croo will not be answering questions in this Parliament. This has to be done in the Committee on the Interior, but that is very rare. I see the chairman of the committee nodding. This means that we will soon be able to welcome Prime Minister De Croo. I hope that the delay in the questions is not such that my question will no longer be addressed. There too my reply is the same, Madam Secretary. The CD&V trophy, in particular the institutional. Get your hands on that! Everyone's looking at you. We're not looking at Secretary Clarinval. We know he's in there to stand on the brake pedal. We're all counting on you to push on the accelerator. I assume that the whole government is counting on that because it is in the coalition agreement. There's a deal on it. All the Minister of your Vivaldiploeg want this to be done. I can't imagine the coalition agreement being concluded before the show. If that's what's in it, it's the ambition to do it. My appeal to you is truly sincere, Mrs Verlinden. Grab that! Don't walk away from that job. Just walk towards it. Embrace that! Take that challenge and go for it! Encourage your trade ministers and not just by sending a letter and asking what they are doing. Take that very actively and set up enough people in your cabinet to follow it. Make sure you have people at your disposal to do so. After all, you have a huge disadvantage. After all, there is no administrative institutional reform. We have already had that debate in detail, including Mr Verherstraeten at the time. That was one of his absolute analysis points after the sixth state reform. He thought this could be set up. We even offered to do that. It was included in our proposal for a coalition agreement and I am particularly sorry that it did not reach the final version of the coalition agreement. As far as asymmetric policy is concerned, I can only repeat what I get in response. One says it's with that one and the other says it's with someone else. I can only hear what I hear. On the third point, it is correct that legislative proposals will be prepared and a political policy agenda discussed, as mentioned in the article in Le Soir. I found this the most important answer you have given. You said the information in Le Soir is correct. That's pretty interesting. If journalists are listening, that's very interesting. The article in Le Soir says that there will be a real political discussion within the government to set the agenda and to make it concrete what will happen institutionally. The final point, and I will conclude with that, is the staff of the former ministers. This explains, after this sleepless night, my somewhat existing agitation. Why am I disappointed in your answer? Firstly, I refer to the fact that the deal within your government is to abolish that system. Those two employees would be abolished, but only from 2024, so the next legislature. However, you say that 2024 is early enough. But here too, your government could be voluntarist. Why don't you show the people on the street that if it's difficult and you need to be spared, you'll do the same as a government? Is that really so difficult to convince the former ministers of the MR to cancel those employees? Is that really so hard? I really don't understand that. I also do not understand why you think this is good enough, Madam Secretary. Should you have replied that you would prefer to go a little faster, but that there is no compromise within the government, I would have preferred to have heard it as an answer. However, you do not answer that. You answer that for you 2024 is early enough. Then you close with a personal sneer to me. I have indeed been Minister, albeit for a short time. However, I was a minister. At that time, however, we made a fundamental choice to leave the government. Now you are suggesting that I personally have made extensive use of the system. I would have made extensive use of the system personally. Madam Secretary, what is the system? Firstly, the system is that as an ex-minister I could get a retirement allowance of 38 000 euros. I refused them immediately. I didn't want a dollar. I wanted zero euros. No job is not a paycheck. We have left the government for reasons of principle, and for reasons of principle I have refused that compensation. Secondly, the system is indeed that I could use two employees, in my case for a period of sixteen months. I've been using that for three months. The first few months after my ministry, I didn't use that opportunity. Then I used that opportunity for three months in the run-up to the elections, but not the sixteen months I could use. Madam Minister, I now hear that I have made extensive use of the system. I'll ask you the question. If you stop as a minister after the current policy period, after the current period or whenever, will you refuse the retirement allowance? Will you not want to use your ex-workers for three months or only for three months? If you answer yes to that question, you may give me personal sneering. If you answer no, it would please you, should you apologize to me personally.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip132x.u11	Madam President, Minister, I will keep my reply shorter than Mr Loones' reply. After all, I can see Mr Francken sitting here and Mr Van Langenhove is here somewhere. It seems that there will be another debate on Asylum and Migration. This also deserves due attention. Madam Minister, I must begin with the same words as Mr Loones'. You've already started very hostilely, although that was not my intention at all. That was not the thrust of my speech either. On the contrary, I have tried to ask you a number of pertinent questions. On the question of the recruitment of police inspectors, for example, I know that there are also good points and that there is a smoother flow within the training, that recruit aspirants can decide much faster and get a decision on the place where they can be employed later. I have absolutely nothing against that. On the contrary, it is a good thing. What I would like to bring to the attention of the House is that perhaps we can also think about other slopes. What do I mean by that? Professor Janssens, among others, wonders why we cannot think about the Irish model, a model that ensures that police officers are just not employed in the place where they are housed. This has a number of advantages, especially when it comes to intervention shifts. I do not need to remind you of the police inspectors of the intervention service who have often been victims of violence against their individuals, just because they were recognized on the street as members of an intervention team. I am not saying that the Irish model is a wonderful idea, but I would ask you to think about it and perhaps take it with you and to make a mid-term evaluation of the new recruitment system you have introduced. Moreover, you have not contradicted the fact that there may be a degree of competition between local police areas and that certainly smaller police areas may suffer, just because the larger police zones can offer more benefits, more premiums to the prospective police officers so that they are more inclined to move there rather than to a smaller, local police area. That was certainly not a reproach, and I am sorry if you would have taken it that way. It was an appeal to study other visions there and to include them in the evaluations. By the way, you told me that this would have been discussed on 15 September, but I checked my committee agenda. We held a committee meeting on 1 September on the floods and hearings on 21 September on the financing of police areas.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip132x.u12	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip132x.u13	September 15th.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip132x.u14	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip132x.u15	Good. Secondly, as regards violence against the police, I am sorry to repeat myself, but this is a topic that lives and unfortunately does not disappear. It's almost daily. Police officers, especially in metropolitan areas, have become almost walking targets of criminal gangs who do not like to physically attack not only cops, but also almost not to be punished. I would like to hear you say that you have agreed with the Minister of Justice to punish these criminals more quickly and more severely, but I do not yet see it in practice. I only hear signals from police officers on the premises that this is not yet the case. You're telling me you're hammering the bourgeois stand. Okay, but it was a question. I've only asked you if you've already done that. I also know that you are right to call for opportunities there, so I can fully follow you on that, but that is not the only way. I know that, too. It is precisely for this reason that the Flemish Interest has submitted a number of legislative proposals, for example to take action in the event of violence against aid workers, as they equip with stabbing clothing. We have also tabled a bill to impose bodycams on police officers so that they can use those images for their own protection as an additional burden of proof if it comes to trial. Finally, as far as the NAVAP is concerned, I read what I read. The notifications say: "The NAVAP gets an extinct character in 2023." You confirm that here, but I am pleased to hear that you are negotiating constructively with the police unions. That is not the signal I have heard, but of course I wish you every success. Here's what I want to ask you. If you change anything about the NAVAP system, provide at least equivalent alternatives. One cannot change an arrangement overnight, especially if it is already part of the system that police officers already rely on. That is like changing the rules of the game to half the match and no one knows what or where. There are good negotiations with the police unions, but I would urge you to look for equal alternatives, together with the representatives of the police. Madam Minister, there is certainly enough substance to continue the debate in our committee meetings. You know I always welcome you there.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip132x.u16	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. With regard to specialized inspectors, the hiring of 400 people was a good thing, but it would be necessary to know how many of them would be assigned to financial crime. This must indeed be a priority for this government, especially after the Pandora Papers. However, this priority is not reflected in the Head of Government's speech and other speeches since yesterday, as 40 agents have been engaged in the FPS Finances to combat tax fraud, which is largely insufficient. I will therefore ask you a written question to have the exact number of inspectors who will be assigned to financial crime. With regard to NAPAP, Madam Minister, you have expressed more support for the activation option than for the cessation of activity. However, when you are 58 or 60 years old, leaving the pension does not mean becoming inactive. I think many pensioners have a lot of activities. To leave the pension means to avoid killing oneself at work, especially in a job as difficult as that of the police. When you do a hard job: being a policeman, working at the factory or being a cashier, at the age of 58, you're already broken. It is therefore normal to leave at the age of 58 or 60 and to work until the age of 62, 65 or 67 is not normal. Personally, I met colleagues when I worked at the museum who died the year they were going to go to the boarding house. I have a colleague who died the year he was on the board. Does that make you laugh, minister? [[(...):...]] It's not funny, actually. So we're in a society that kills people at work. There are 500,000 long-term patients because of a labour and pension policy that kills people at work. I don't know if you've talked to the people on the ground, the unions, the workers or the police, but they're furious. I don't think this project will pass. If you continue in this direction, you will awaken something that you will not control afterwards. I'm telling you, for once, all the people on the ground, all the unions, whether they are on the left or on the right, are united to think that something is going to happen if you touch NAPAP. I'll give you the message. On the issue of relief zones, you mentioned an investment of EUR 10 million. The only NAGE area (Namur – Gembloux – Andenne – Eghezée) has a total budget of twenty million euros. There are 34 areas in Belgium. When I do the calculation, I think you understand that ten million are peanuts and that it won't solve anything. This will at most allow one rescue zone to be upgraded. Ten million, therefore, does not meet the current needs at all. With regard to the financing of relief areas and 50%, there is no need to think about how 50% is done! That's the law! The federal government must pay 50 per cent of the cost of emergency areas. It's a legal obligation. Moreover, the State was condemned for this. Madam Minister, you have nine months to respond to this conviction on pain of 1,500 euros a day! You are not asked to find a mechanism: the state has not paid 50% for 14 years. Today, he is condemned and has to pay them. We're not negotiating if we put 30% down there. No! It is a legal obligation in the head of the federal government to put 50% in it. We're just asking you to respect the law. That is my reply, Madam Minister, of the ten million for the relief areas which are completely inadequate, 50 per cent of the funding is a legal obligation. It's still crazy to be the state, the one that governs the laws and doesn't even respect them! It's not normal. To conclude, on the NAPAP issue, minister, take a walk on the ground! Believe me, if you're going to go in that direction, you're going to have problems with the law enforcement. They're already having pay problems. They have been asking for an increase in wages for 20 years, while they have not been increased for 20 years, and today you are receiving their pension while they are doing a job that imposes a high pace, tension, and daily stress on them. When you're 58 years old, when you're a policeman - or when you're working hard - believe me, it's not a privilege, it's a right! These people should not be considered out of business. They have the right to have a decent life at 58 because they have worked hard all the time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip132x.u17	Minister, to come back to NAPAP, I have often been questioned in recent weeks by police officers, trade union organizations as well, who stress the fear of this reform. This does not mean an obstacle to reform, but the fear of seeing a regime that allowed them to envisage an end to a decent career in terms of their investment in the police for so many years and in terms of their hard work, to see this career development replaced by a situation that would harm them. What is important is to have a concerted structural reform. In this regard, I welcome the fact that you have understood the importance of this issue from the outset, since you have begun the dialogues that are imperative for a measure that will not disadvantage the police, that will take into account the length of the work and that must be good for the police and good for the communes. It is not possible for any reform of any kind to be carried out by the municipalities which today have so much difficulty in managing the reforms of the relief and police zones. Therefore, a decision taken by the federal government must be taken by the federal government, which is important. I'm a municipalist. I want to. The second element for the communes is that whatever decisions are made, care must be taken to ensure an end to the career of our police officers, who have given a lot of money, but also to ensure that we always have as many police officers on our streets, or even more. What would be crazy would be to have an extension of the duties of the police officers in administrative tasks, and to find themselves unable to recruit police officers and have them in the field, where we need them most for prevention, but also - when necessary - for repression. Second point: Civil protection. We never stopped hammering him from the beginning. Even before the Jambon reform was activated, we predicted that it would be a considerable failure. And today we regret it, but the fact is clear: this reform is a considerable failure. It has undermined the very functioning of Civil Protection; it is endangering our fellow citizens because we no longer have the living forces - as the cadres are not full - or areas sufficiently close to the whole territory in which we must intervene. It is therefore essential to review Civil Protection quickly and speed up the audit you have requested on this reform. We had the chance, in the province of Liège, to have the Civil Protection of Kemexhe which was nearby to intervene. I dare not imagine the situation we would have had had this post not been present. It is therefore essential to work quickly to review this reform, which was an aberration. Thirdly, infrastructure. As I have said on several occasions, we must provide our teams, our police officers, with the infrastructure to enable them to carry out their work in the best possible conditions. In the province of Liège, we are faced with a big problem in Vottem, with the masterplan. I know that this competence is the responsibility of your colleague Mathieu Michel, and I have already asked him. It is also important at your level too, since it is your men, these men who depend on your skill, who today are not in good conditions to work. Just 48 hours ago, the Labour Inspectorate decided to close the buildings of the Vottem Federal Police. Today, it is aberrant to see this situation. It is therefore necessary to provide a short-term solution to the situation of the Vottem police as well as to activate and accelerate the masterplan so that it is implemented within five years maximum. In this regard, you must work in consultation with Mathieu Michel, whom I will not fail to question also on these elements. Minister, I very much hope that you will be attentive to the three points I have just mentioned with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip132x.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes the subject reserved for the competences of Mrs Verlinden, Minister of the Interior. We will address the thematic discussion of the competences of Minister Van der Straeten.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip132x.u19	Madam Minister, we have, of course, already had some of this debate. You will all remember that we raised this issue about 23 hours ago. There have already been speeches from both the Minister and me and other colleagues. We discussed the choice, as far as energy prices are concerned, to protect only the group with the social tariff and not the remaining 82%, or to a much lesser extent. We also had a wide-ranging debate on the choice between gas plants and nuclear power plants. So I would like to pick up the debate where we left off. There were still a few things that were not quite clear about the resources you want to use. I would like to start with the budgetary resources that you yourself have put forward. I think that a Twitter post mentioned EUR 760 million, specifically for energy in all forms and sizes, which is, of course, divided into a number of elements. We have to note that a large proportion of these funds are intended to be spent this year. That is a bit different from what is customary in a budget debate, because usually such debates relate to funds spent in the following years. For example, you have subscribed some 220 million to spend this year, or to charge at least this year. That amount is made up of several parts. A first element concerns the EUR 100 million for the additional costs of extending the social tariff. At least I think I can tell from the notifications. That is the part that has been added as a result of high energy prices. We ourselves brought that amount out a while ago, as we came up with this on the basis of energy prices. I have to note that the CREG, which naturally has much more accurate data, also accounted for this amount, namely EUR 21 million for electricity and EUR 79 million for gas. The question then is, of course, how you deal with it. After all, we all know that not all funds must be paid effectively by 2021. You said last time in the budget debate that I was a little dumber than I am, because the money has to be paid only when the energy suppliers' claims come in. If I have understood the CREG documents correctly, it is assumed that it will be even more widely distributed. It states that the energy suppliers would be reimbursed for 40% in 2022 and 60% in 2023 for the social tariff of 2021. However, I also asked you a while ago whether it is desirable to try to speed this up. In our neighbouring countries, a number of suppliers have already gone overboard and you yourself warned in the committee about the possible snowball effect of bankruptcies that could have far-reaching consequences. Is it your intention to accelerate some progress on the part of suppliers with this EUR 100 million? Given that you are already providing the budget for 2021, I would not consider it unwise in itself if you look at what is possible there. Our families and companies are under very heavy pressure, but a number of suppliers are also under pressure. Are you planning on doing that? There is a second element in the same discussion. We are now discussing the extension of the social tariff which has been deliberately included in the budget, but the basis of the social tariff, for the initial target group which has been in existence for many years, has always been settled through the federal contribution so far. Those resources were provided for. How will you deal with that from now on? We had a debate on this yesterday. We are not aware that those rules would have been changed, but you have already indicated that what I am saying is wrong and that you will do it in a different way. Can you explain how much you are short for the basic target group, so that it does not have to be included in the rates of the federal contribution for next year or the following year? The basic target group is about the same size or even slightly larger than the extended target group and, according to the CREG, has a deficit for about the same resources. That seems to me to be an important aspect. At the same time, you also provide the famous energy check, again for the same target group. The calculation of this is fairly clear in the notification. You are counting on the extended social rate with 880,000 right holders and an energy check of about 80 euros, which will bring you to the quoted amount of 72 million euros, also to be charged in 2021. I suspect that it is the intention to publish this in 2021. That check is specifically linked to the winter period. So I can understand it if you choose to re-serve the same target group, but I would like to know if there are any changes in the target group today. It has often been said in the debate that about 1 million people are eligible for this social rate and therefore for this energy check. The CREG mentioned 871,000 families. However, in the figures of the RIZIV the target group seems to be getting smaller. I am referring specifically to the figures on 30 June 2021, because they want to partly translate the recovery of corona. My question is whether you have a concrete view of the size of the target group as it exists today. The CREG is currently still working with a comparison between the first quarter of 2020 and the first quarter of 2021 to determine the size of the target group. I think that's interesting. I believe that the evolution of the target group may be to your advantage in budgetary terms, but that you may be serving fewer people than you originally intended. I'd like to hear your views on the matter. 16 million euros have been taken into account to strengthen the Gas and Electricity Fund. I note that it is not just about strengthening that fund. It is not merely a question of additional resources that will be placed in that fund, because it is specifically commissioned to ensure that this fund is used as a priority for those people who cannot avail themselves of the social tariff. This is how it has been incorporated in the notifications. Then, of course, my question is: how do you wish to do that? You know that until now the Gas and Electricity Fund is governed by what is still called the Vande Lanotte Act, the law of 4 September 2002. Is it your intention to amend that law? That law is, of course, written in a different time frame than the current one. The powers to intervene may therefore have been changed, given that matters have been assigned only in the 2010 circular letter and not specifically in the law itself. So I'd like to hear about that. What measures do you consider possible there? To be honest, the 2010 circular is a bit of a kid of his time. There is still talk of energy-saving lamps, drafts and refrigerators with an A+ label, which all sounds a bit like the beginning of the 21st century. Do you intend to revise those measures? If so, how do you wish to revise it? I've read some of your suggestions in the press. You mentioned, for example, the possibility of leasing energy-efficient appliances and having certain audits carried out. How do you wish to deal specifically with these suggestions? For 2022, the budget will again include a very specific amount of EUR 207.9 million. I can imagine that you have a specific calculation for that amount in order to see what practical results can be achieved. However, the amount mentioned seems to me to be very high, knowing that energy prices have risen seriously. I'll explain that in more detail. Let us take the calculation that the CREG also uses. In the first quarter about 45% of the gas is used. For electricity, that's about a third. That's the same calculation the CREG made. In the meantime, however, the social rate is rising, and I would like to point out that we know that there is a ceiling in the system which will allow social rates to rise again by 8% to 10%. Unless there are still very strange things happening on the Gazprom side, which is not entirely excluded, there will in principle be a smaller margin between the real cost price and the cost of the social tariff for the people who make use of it. Where exactly is the money going? Is it true or not that it is your intention to recover part of the cost for the basic target group with these amounts? There is no doubt that you can tell me more about how it works. At the same time, we know that the CREG warned us in March 2021 that a fairly large package of green electricity certificates and support had to be settled in the field of offshore wind energy. It was about EUR 100 million, which actually belongs to the year 2020, but had to be settled in 2022. In what way exactly will you do that? I do not see any means for this for the time being. This brings me to the whole concept of flexible excise duties and the energy standard. To date, there is not much clarity as to how that concept will work. When I see the amounts that are being taken into account, I wonder how people will feel about that. I'm declaring myself. It has been indicated at some point that this would have an impact of EUR 50 per family on an annual basis. A little later we talked about EUR 30 per family on an annual basis. However, when I look at the funds, EUR 156 million, and see how they are to be distributed to both families and businesses, as it says in the notification, you seem to lack resources. After all, if you only calculate the impact for nearly five million families on the basis of that 156 million euros, you will amount to 30 euros per family per year, while these funds should also be distributed to SMEs and other companies. After all, it is your intention to incorporate not only the offshore levy, but also the federal contribution. The question then is how to get EUR 156 million per family to EUR 30 per family. Can you deepen and clarify this system, especially since the system is becoming structurally cheaper over the years? EUR 156 million is foreseen for 2022. If 5 million families share that, they will receive about 30 euros. The following year, it is suddenly only EUR 120 million. If you have to redistribute that amount, the cake will become smaller again. The year after that, it will be spectacular, because you will need 60 million euros. If you have to divide EUR 60 million between 5 million families and a large number of SMEs and other companies, the question is how people will feel about it at that time. Where exactly did this drop come from? If you collect certain costs from the invoice via that system, if you convert them from a tax to an excise duty while charging less excise duty than you need to pay certain costs, then those costs must be paid elsewhere, but also structurally. The costs of offshore windmills will not fall dramatically over the next two years. Most of the other costs, such as those for the CREG, for example, other than those for the social tariff, will most likely remain. I do not see them immediately decreasing by more than half in the coming years. So I'm interested to know exactly how you got those numbers, because otherwise, of course, it's a ending story. The initial explanatory statement by Mr Van Peteghem in this regard states that this will make us more flexible. If energy prices are high, we can reduce excise duty and at low prices it can rise. The question is, of course, how much of that you will not charge in the energy bill. So the big issue is what you are going to do with it. In addition, the question is how you will handle the advance invoice. The MR has always referred to the introduction of a cliquet system. This is more or less copied from the fuel price system, but with the suspicion that at fuel prices the current amount is paid to the pump each time. That is different in the case of electricity and gas invoices, because fortunately we all pay advance invoices for that. Otherwise, we would get huge amounts of money in the winter when we would pay relatively low amounts in the summer. We have already read that if the measures were to be introduced, the advance invoices could no longer be increased unilaterally. The customer must always give his consent. I'll come back to that later. If you reduce excise duties, will you also oblige suppliers to reduce their advance invoices? If you want to increase excise duties back to take account of the energy price, will you at the same time oblige suppliers to increase their advance bill? The question is what will be the cost of that. If 5 million families require advance invoices to be adjusted, I can imagine that this does not happen in one-two-three. Today, that goes more systematically. In the context of higher prices, there are several suppliers who have done so, but if we have to adjust the advance invoices for 5 million families several times a year at the same time, I do not know whether this is as free as we think it is. I wonder where those charges are going. I believe that it is necessary to consider how you intend to apply the flexible excise duty system in such a way that it is also relevant to the final customer. I understand the system perfectly when it comes to the big companies because they don't work with advance bills, but for the families that's a whole different story. I wonder where exactly you want to go with that. These are a number of very specific questions and I feel that there will be a very concrete answer from my left.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip132x.u20	It may be because I haven't slept very much and because I'm a little impatient today, but I hear you express a lot of concerns. I think you are the first speaker to express his concerns about the energy bill today, but this concerns the energy suppliers. First of all, I am concerned about the families in this country who are awake from their invoices today. There is perhaps a lamp burning at the energy suppliers today, but I find that remarkable. You're from a lot of technical concerns about these advance invoices. These are all matters that need to be properly organised. I agree with you on this, but I would particularly like to know what you think of the measures being taken now, such as the extension and extension of the social tariff, consumer protection, which includes the advance bill, and the system of excise duties for the price increase and its impact on our families. I agree with you that all this needs to be worked out technically well, but I do miss a few comments in your speech. Is that because you don't care about the families? At Flemish level, they were only shot in action this week. I'd still like to get some feedback from you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip132x.u21	Mr Verduyckt, I began by saying that this is a debate that we are continuing. Yesterday we told the Minister, you and half the hemisphere in detail where the problems are facing us. In particular, it is the fact that 82% of the population is not in any good for this measure of the social tariff. We notice that it is not used and that the group that can make use of it is small and can hardly work. Those who work full-time are almost never eligible, as Mr Francken has shown quite clearly. There is a problem for us there, and that is a criticism we made yesterday. There was a great deal of discussion about this and that was also why it was not necessary for me to repeat the debate we had with the same people in the same room less than 24 hours ago. Maybe you like to do that again, no doubt we have new viewers today that we didn't have yesterday, but I don't think this is the essence. Today is still the same story as yesterday. If you say that we are concerned only with the energy suppliers, then you have not listened carefully. I have made it very clear that there is a problem for families and for our SMEs, but we must be careful not to push families and SMEs further into problems by letting some suppliers go bankrupt. That is what I said, and that is what the Minister warned us about in committee. If at some point a number of suppliers give up and go bankrupt, this is certainly not good for families and businesses, who then in some cases end up in systems that they do not want. If one ends up in a domino effect, with fewer and fewer suppliers remaining, they all end up with the network operator. You also know that the network operator's tariff is generally not the cheapest rate on the market. That is even a rate that has always been relatively high, and that was designed in that way at the time. I was sitting in a different chair, namely in the cabinet, when we, together with Mrs van den Bossche, formed that arrangement, specifically to ensure that those people would return to the market as soon as possible. To say that those suppliers do not interest you is to say that you are not really interested in those families or SMEs, because they will be the victims. You will say that the Flemish Government has not done anything yet. Excuse me, since 2017, 137 euros per family have been removed from that energy bill, for 2.8 million families. I'll be a lot higher than the 156 million euros you want to bet. That, of course, means that these people are already paying a lot less. However, if it is your call to bring that down further, with great pleasure. That is what we are still doing. If you say that Mrs Demir is only now coming up with measures, these are measures on top of last year's measures, and on top of the previous year's measures, and on top of the previous year's measures, every year. That is why these invoices have of course been falling since 2017. Only now the federal government is starting to fall. Madam Minister, you say that it is not your fault that these offshore wind certificates are increasing, because this is the policy of the previous government. In that respect, quite frankly, we must know what we want. At the same time, the Prime Minister says that we are the second country in the world when it comes to offshore wind energy per head.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip132x.u22	Mr Wollants, we agree, taking the charges out of the invoice must be the institution of every government in this country. We all know why, when we have to do this energy transition, electricity becomes more important. You know that, I know that, we all know that. However, we must also have the necessary honesty. You say here that Mrs Demir has withdrawn EUR 150 million from the invoice. That was because the VREG had to. Let's be honest, she had to do that from the VREG. Now she likes to unpack, but the moment the VREG came up with the story of the solar panels, it was that annoying independent regulator. We must therefore be correct in this respect. She has now announced the 200 million euros. That's announced policy, it's not a definite policy. I hope that she will do so effectively, because that would be a good thing and go in the right direction. Let us be honest, however, that EUR 150 million had to come from the VREG. And you also know how the municipalities feel about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip132x.u23	Mr Verduyckt, I'm not an expert on energy. Luckily, we have a classmate like Bert Wollants in the house. I went to rest, he hasn't yet, but he still sounds like he doesn't need rest for the next few hours. I'd like to take a look at this with political glasses. I see two things. Firstly, I believe that the whole energy debate for the government, and certainly for Green, is a complete loss-lose situation. Either these gas plants are opening up, they are going to have to pay a lot of money for that and they are having to deal with the CO2 problem. I once experienced it with the People's Union when the Flemish People's Movement came to our party secretariat De Barricade to load'stop giving and admitting'. If, therefore, an organisation such as Tegengas is to find out what happened at Ecolo/Groen this week, then I think that there is a problem and that it will be very difficult in terms of credibility. If the nuclear power stations remain open, Engie will charge such a high price that it is difficult for you to explain it. It's a very difficult file. That is why nothing has been decided on this so far. From a political point of view, in my view, as far as I have experience and judgment, this is a very difficult dossier. A second element that I also think is a loss point is that with the inventing of a social rate and giving a one-off premium you want to show your social heart, of course, the lower layer of the middle class cannot even be compensated or helped, outside of a meaningless 2.50 euro. I find that problematic, too. I wrote a piece about Deborah, but of course it's not about that person himself. I have seen that your party chairman has reacted extremely toxicly and even called me an alien hater in response to what I wrote about the energy premium, but I really do not understand what that is necessary. I find that very vile. He responds by saying that Deborah should not be abused, which of course he does because I use an example he initially launched himself, the example of a cashier. That example is so interesting because everyone knows a cashier, so that's a very strong picture. In the use of images, your party chairman is very strong. That's okay, that's okay, and I'm trying to be strong at it, too. However, the ball bounces back in my example, because everyone knows that cashiers are not rich people. The cashier has to work hard, but gets nothing. That's extra painful. That is why I believe that extra attention should be paid to this issue. The middle class is also made up of segments. An advisor at Deloitte also belongs to the middle class, but it is a very different story for a single woman with a job as cashier or coiffeuse. That's what I was trying to prove. If we had worked out such an arrangement, I think you would make exactly the same remark.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip132x.u24	Mr Francken, the debate on electricity production is separate from the debate on the social tariff, which you mention in your last point. First of all, I'm going into the social tariff, where you have questions at the border we're drawing. From my years of work at the local level, I know that there is discussion in every subsidy regulation where a limit is drawn, because people always fall just above and just below that limit. We have drawn a line where one million families, two million citizens of this country, are protected from higher energy prices. I don't think that's a small beer, it's quite an effort. We are talking about families that have the least chance of protecting themselves from higher energy prices. Those families do not have budgets to isolate or renovate their homes. Often they also live in a rental house, so the property is not their property. It is therefore particularly important to focus on that target group. As far as isolation and related matters are concerned, you are aware of my criticism. It belongs to the jurisdictional material of the Regions. Not 1 % per year is achieved, so that score is simply far too bad. Perhaps you and your Flemish colleague could look at how that can be done up. In addition, I believe that you are far too light about the additional measures on consumer protection. It may not be in writing in the government's table, but there are effective consequences for families. For example, if we provide a clearer invoice, it will also have an impact on the family budget. Yesterday I gave the example of the law on dormant energy contracts, which could mean up to EUR 700 for a family. That is also in the measures, and that is the 80% of the families you are talking about. So you're being too light about that, and I'm sorry about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip132x.u25	A single cashier who earns 2,130 euros gross per month also has no money to renovate her property. If he lives in Leuven, she already has to pay 1,000 euros rent. That is, of course, another debate. But also in my village that is at least 600 to 700 euros. Then there won't be much left for a renovation. We try to make a difference with the social rent, but that doesn't always work out. There has been a fight for compensation measures, but you should not underestimate the feeling in the middle class. In Flanders, and perhaps also in Wallonia, they feel that they always fall out of the boat. That lives very strongly, even though it may not actually be. We must all pay attention to this, including the Flemish Government. That same debate always comes back. The more you give people something, the more expensive it's gonna be for the state treasury. And there's not a lot of fat left on the soup either. With the tax shift we have tried, but there has always been more for the lowest incomes to increase the difference between work and non-work. Personally, I think that the essence of the debate should be deepened: the gap between work and non-work. I see that since 1 July 2.5 % has been added to all benefits, that they get the index adjustment by 4 %. Then it is not about large incomes, because a benefit is low. But it looks like that gap is getting smaller again. The National Bank or the Monitoring Committee should find out. Of course, people who do not work should not be pushed into poverty. We are not saying that the unemployed and small pensions are not important to us. But it must be worth getting up and going to work in the morning. That's the only way to get that 80 %. I also don't know about the story of the long-term sick if it's gonna work. I did not intervene at that time because it is such a sensitive and difficult debate, because every story is a story in itself. As mayor, I know so many of them. But I doubt it will actually be activated. I want to see the results first. So you're gonna have to go get it from all the other inactive people, and there you are with a lot of unemployed people. One final point. As a result of this debate, I have called a number of employers in my municipality. André Celis, a large construction company, is one of the largest employers, who has participated in the new NATO building in Evere. He told me he currently has 17 vacancies, of which 10 are for low-skilled. He said he's at his wits' end because he can't find it. They should not even be able to do anything, fill shelves, for example, very simple tasks. They should not even be able to speak Dutch, because he also works with Poland and Bulgarians. At the same time there is an unemployment rate of 40% for young people in Saint-Joost-ten-Node, which is not far from Lubbeek at all. There are hundreds, thousands of unemployed there. Then why don't they come to work, he wonders. At the same time, I see measures being taken in favour of benefits, such as energy compensation. I don't think that's gonna work at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip132x.u26	Everyone realizes that there's a group above the social tariff limit that's having a hard time. Everyone feels that's not right, but nothing's gonna happen to it. At first, the Minister also thought of a different ceiling. Actually, the Minister felt that it shouldn't really be about the ceiling of the increased concession, she wanted an increased concession plus 30%. Only she couldn't enter that immediately with automatic assignment. This reinforces my idea that everyone in this hemisphere feels that this arbitrary border is being done something for the group of 880,000 families who enjoy increased benefits and is not as good as anything for the group that is right above it. The people on the street also feel that's not right. That should have been taken into account. There must be some trouble adjusting that ceiling. That cannot be done without getting into trouble. After all, that cannot be rolled out in a few weeks to a month. It is not right to include them in the other measures at all. There must be some attention to that. Perhaps it is necessary to consider how this can be done within the government, so that it can be looked at. After all, this is a bit out of proportion. The EUR 16 million for that group is not really very big at the end of the journey. If a refrigerator is replaced by a more recent model in each family, the impact of an 800 euro more expensive gas bill will not be covered. As for everything that has come into the tariffs in recent years, let us be honest: it has always been the same debate, always. Every time a government has wanted to intervene to get things done, especially when it comes to green electricity - I remember the Flemish government wanting to do something about it because we were even in a government together, Mr Verduyckt - Green and Vld said that we were doing predatory work on the sector. We couldn't get it out because the sector needed that money. Afterwards we always think with retroactive force: if we hadn't made that mistake, we would have stood somewhere completely different. If we had dealt with solar panel subsidies in time, we'd be living in a whole different story. But to be honest, no one was working on that at the time. It was about few solar panels and it was not such a great problem that someone who laid solar panels and had an extra cost of 200 to 300 euros got 450 euros in cash for that. Only now everyone is looking at each other, but what the Flemish government has done in recent years, Mr Verduyckt, is really not a bitch. That's about hundreds of millions of euros. You are only talking about the EUR 150 million from the VREG, but in the years before, things have been done. Time after time, year after year. For example, the fraud committed with wind turbines was also removed. The adjustment of the support that went to onshore wind energy, because it was simply too high, which was the same problem as with the solar panels, was also removed. There have therefore been absolutely good steps forward, but the work is indeed not finished. No one here will be able to claim that the work is done. But I think that something must be done in this area at federal level too.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip132x.u27	It is, of course, easy to always point to the past. That's how we'll always find something. I know that you like to get rid of the green certificates, but there is also a policy that needs to be implemented today, albeit on the basis of things that have been decided in the past. What I see today is that the green electricity certificates are indeed in the public service. On the other hand, a family pays 54 euros per megawatt hour, while a large energy-consuming company pays only 0.36 euros. So a family pays 150 times more than a company. Those are things that can turn Mrs Demir into one fingernip, she can immediately adjust that ratio. That is what we also charge at Flemish level, in addition to the fact that you use climate money to bring down energy bills from large companies. These are choices made today by the Flemish Government, choices where families are not spared.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip132x.u28	In reality, of course, it is also a choice to ensure that our industry remains competitive. If, tomorrow, the companies give up because of too high energy prices - the Minister referred to BASF, which stopped production - will they still produce tomorrow, if you raise the prices for industry to save the families? Will all employees become temporarily unemployed? That's not the best solution either. I have read in the notification that the degressivity and exemptions are maintained at federal level. You do not reject that and I also know why. This would have very far-reaching consequences for that chain and for employment. We are also concerned about this. That was one of the reasons why we felt that post-Coronapandemic employment should be restored. The miracle solution to save families by sending all the burdens to industry and then saving industry by laying all the burdens on families does not work and will never work. Moreover, I suspect that there is no support in your government for the families to be completely spared and put everything in the industry.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip132x.u29	I always appreciate your technical arguments, my dear colleague, member of a party that is a partner at the Flemish level and former government partner in the previous legislature. It is clear that energy policy must be geared not only to climate policy, but also to affordability and security of supply, in line with the government agreement. This is not an easy exercise, especially with the very complex division of powers in the country. I think we are all right to pay attention to the energy bills and the role of the different players, but one cannot see that separately. The government has always said that it would intervene, but the bill will eventually have to be paid. I believe that we can only get out of the vicious circle through a coordinated and coherent policy. We wanted to stimulate the energy transition at different policy levels - you are or were part of it too - by encouraging suppliers with certain subsidies and by encouraging consumers with financial incentives. Now we're in a situation where the bills are all coming up and we need to clean them up. I see that even the PVDA advocates not only doing it for the 20% that are struggling, but also for the remaining 80%. That is, of course, a system that will in the long term be deadly and damaging to any policy. What I'm missing here is attention to the cost. How can we strike a balance in a responsible way? Philippe De Backer then negotiated as Secretary of State to bring down the bill for the wind farms by 4 billion. Should we not find a common solution in harmony, not only in mutual respect but also in cooperation, to tackle the whole problem? The discussion is partly also cyclically determined: what goes down, goes up. You also know that energy prices fell sharply in 2018, so that they were at a low point in 2019. We are comparing them now, but historically, most prices, apart from gas prices, have remained at the same level. Is it not the right decision of the government to ensure stability through these levies and excise duties, and can you also count on your support?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip132x.u30	I think the most important question is how far you want to go with excise duties. The mere replacement of duties by excise duties does not change much. It depends on what one does with these excise duties. If we are to achieve a structural reduction in the revenue from excise duties than we have received from the levies, then of course we will have to compensate them somewhere if we want to continue to meet the commitments made for offshore wind farms, for example. That's where the whole problem is. In the past, all kinds of agreements have been made. Initially, these windmills even received permanent support at sea; there are still a number of parks that receive such support. However, this also means that for those who support very high prices is exactly the same as for very low prices. That was no longer the case for the last wind farms. We have for the first time made a trend break during the previous reign to ensure that there was a link with the electricity price. That was, of course, a sensible move. It has been said many times in this hemisphere, every time we talk about nuclear power plants: the difference between production price and selling price is getting very high. Of course, this also applies to offshore wind farms, provided there is no link to the electricity price. There one must certainly dare to take steps forward, and see how things are getting out. To be honest, we are all talking about commitments that we have entered into in periods that have long been behind us. In the previous legislature, huge sums of money went off. I fully agree with you on that. We strongly supported that in the government at the time, but even then we heard in this hemisphere: 'We are not in favour of oversubsidisation, but do not exaggerate, because then there may be risks for the offshore companies themselves'. That makes it a difficult matter, which, depending on who sits on which seat and when, is looked at differently. That should be completely different in the future, and that is why we almost all agreed together on the CRM and the gas plants last year. The cost of this was no longer allowed, as in the old culture that existed then, to be stacked in the invoice each time. That wasn't supposed to happen again, it was never meant to happen again. It was therefore expected that the government would come forward with proposals to ensure that it did not happen. Those proposals were supposed to be at the end of last year, but today they are not there. They are also not mentioned in the government declaration. There's actually no one who knows what's gonna happen to that. The Minister said that she would find a solution by November and that she would come forward with proposals. It is not yet November, but we are close to November, and I am very curious to see what steps it will take so that we can finally have the debate on it. There is always reference to studies: according to the EnergyVille study, it does not really save so much between gas plants and nuclear power plants. While the author of the study says: I did not include the subsidies. If we do not do anything about these subsidies, then we will still be stuck. Maybe we should start that debate. In view of the gas crisis, we have not yet had that debate. I would very much like to put it into practice, but I have the impression that the proposals will not end up on these tables today and that I will have to wait a few more weeks for them. Maybe the Minister can surprise me today and put all the proposals on the table? We've been asking for that for some time. I'll be a lucky man if she eventually does. Those were my punctual questions, in addition to the bigger debate that we had yesterday and that we had again for the sake of completeness today. Everyone thinks that this is a pleasant debate, but it is really poignant that we should have it over and over again. I hope that we will come up with measures to ensure that the invoice is not passed on to final customers. They must be protected and the invoice must not remain there forever. I have just asked Minister Khattabi if she intends to participate in gas heating and the interconnection with the emissions trading system, specifically for buildings and transport, but there was no very clear answer to that. I am therefore curious to see what that will give, but there is a potential new cost for families and SMEs. If we do not handle this wisely, we will soon be having another debate again, which we would regret, because that is really not the way to go. Our position is relatively clear, Madam Secretary. There are a number of specific questions on the table on which I expect concrete answers. You have set very high expectations, because you said that you will answer all my questions for the last year today. I'll take note of it and I'll listen very carefully in a moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip132x.u31	Thank you, Mr Wollants, you've been at it for an hour, an hour. Other Members asked to speak: Mr Van Lommel and Mr Warmoes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip132x.u32	Mr Wollants, I have a question for you. About 45 minutes ago, you rightly mentioned the problem that people who are dropped by their commercial energy supplier end up in the distribution system operator and receive a fare that is far from cheap. That's interesting, because just today at 5:34 a.m., the VRT posted a message about this. Let me read it out for you: " Middle-class families who can no longer pay energy bills pay much more in one municipality than in others. Middle-class households who are not entitled to a social tariff for energy bills are faced with payment problems with the so-called social suppliers. A strangling system: for electricity, invoices are tens of percent more expensive than in Brussels and Wallonia. These invoices may be the most expensive in Europe. Moreover, there are great differences between them. If you live in the wrong village, you pay almost 20 percent more than in your neighborhood." That is not the case in Brussels. If one is dropped in Brussels by the commercial energy supplier, the social rate is practically automatic. I would like to propose to the Flemish Government that I use your presence here to do the same. First of all, give the people who are dropped, usually because they have payment problems, automatically the social rate. Secondly, make sure that there is a universal distribution rate and that the rate does not differ from one village to another. Why don't you? I know why. After all, the article says why you do not do that. It may be Fluvius speaking, but you will confirm that. That's because you want to send them back to the commercial suppliers. You want those involved to move to another supplier, but the fact that they have been dropped by one supplier is because they have a problem. Mr Wollants, that is a suggestion for you, but you will undoubtedly have something to say about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip132x.u33	Madam President, Mr Warmoes, I am well aware that you do not mind markets and commercial suppliers and private companies selling energy. You don't have it for that. What you want is that all suppliers drop their customers massively and that there will be a low rate at the distribution system manager in the hands of the government. That's more or less what you stand for. However, I have to say that such a system has not led to the best rates in the past. It didn't make the rates cheap. After all, there was no competition. That's just the advantage. Competition between the different suppliers creates a better situation. I do know that Brussels has complained about this, so that we can make some improvements here and there. You should look up how many commercial suppliers in Brussels still want to deliver and hire new customers. There's four of them. Four suppliers still want to do that. In that case, do you believe that you will be given the best conditions through competition? That is absolutely not the case. However, that is not your problem. You are not, after all, a great supporter of competition in this area either. In your world, none of that matters. In addition to SNCB, we also need to establish a National Energy Company, in which a number of officials can be positioned, that day by day do nothing but make energy. However, I do not believe that such a system is the cheapest way. SNCB is not now the most efficient company to get everything sorted out. There are still a number of things to do in terms of efficiency. Let us use the market to ensure that we can reach the cheapest prices. Last time we supported Mr Verduyckt's proposal, just to remove excesses, so that the abuse disappears and so that people can objectively make a choice, without getting lost in tariffs which, to be honest, probably do not get five people decently calculated here in the hemisphere. That is why we have always said that this simplification of the energy bill is important in order to ensure that competition can play as much as possible, because if we do not do so, we will create an obstacle to the free market. We are not in favour of obstacles to the free market in this area, because they are to the detriment of consumers. That is why we are better off doing so than making a national energy supply company for which comrades can sell member cards.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip132x.u34	Mr Wollants, that of course requires a response. I wonder what world you live in. You are now saying that, thanks to competition, there are cheap rates. Are there cheap rates now? Is that a joke? There are no cheap rates at all, they have increased by 700 euros for an average family. You are indeed in favour of the free market, as is Mrs van der Straeten. I believe that all the parties here, who have, by the way, supported liberalisation, are effectively distinguished from us in this respect. After all, we assume that energy is a right and that electricity and gas is actually cheap. That will not be possible if the free market solves it. With regard to SNCB, I would like to refer to privatisations in the Netherlands and, above all, in England, where they have been referred back to. We do indeed have a different view on this. For us, these things are so important that they need to be national and public, to ensure cheap rates and to effectively achieve an ecological transition. We have indeed supported Mr Verduyckt's initiative, but that is actually messing around in the margins. You say you want to get the excesses out, but you've been messing around in the margins for 20 to 30 years. In the meantime, the problem of people in energy poverty remains.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip132x.u35	You're not for the market, and all the other people here are. It has to work well, of course. If you had set up your own energy company with the government, where would you have purchased the gas? That's what I'm wondering. You say that all of this will have to be paid through taxes and that a millionaire tax will have to be introduced so that someone else can pay it for you. That fits in with your ideology, I know, but it's not real. That is why we should stay within that market before we blow the whole thing up.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip132x.u36	Madam Secretary, as a green minister, you undoubtedly like birds and you probably like to hear them too, but I do not hear them. You've made people happy with a dead sparrow, and then another animal with one leg and one wing. In the last few hours, days and weeks, a lot has already been said about the electricity bill. It's keeping everyone under wraps. An investment of EUR 760 million is indeed substantial and the extension of the social tariff was a necessary measure. However, if 1 million families have to make use of that social tariff or have a right to it, then that is absolutely a sign that there is something structurally wrong with the electricity bill in Flanders. It's a good thing you're trying to protect the people. That's what's good for you. The pendulum, however, is going crazy. Meanwhile, 80 % remains empty-handed and you let them knock on the chin. I was just talking about a dead sparrow, and that is the case, because the 80% must be between EUR 30 and EUR 50 a year. This is calculated at 2.5 to 4 euros per month. One can buy another pint for that. The working class is therefore not eligible. For the ordinary Fleming, who also pays 1000 euro more for electricity and 1500 euro extra for gas, you do nothing. You're gonna push these people into poverty like that. They will therefore think very carefully this winter when they have to turn the button of the heater 1 or 2 degrees higher, if they are not already in the cold. Madam Secretary, you often say that we have certain market conditions for gas and electricity. That's true. There is an economic revival, so energy prices are rising. It is then up to us as a government to take the necessary measures. I also understand that there will be a shift in excise duties from electricity to gas in the future. Would you mind explaining that? Those who rely at home on gas to heat the home we have warned, after all, a shift from taxes or excise duties on electricity to gas is announced. Where is the time when the government called on people to heat up massively with natural gas? We can reverse the government statement twenty more times, but the energy bill remains a tax bill anyway. The general discussion did not reassure me at all on this point. There are too many elements in the energy bill that do not really belong there. This is also a message for the Flemish Government, which must also make efforts. Over the past few weeks, I have seen ministers from different levels of government shoving the blackbird at each other, but that is of no use to the public. Therefore, I often notice that attention is distracted, for example by saying that energy consumption should be reduced, that there should be isolation and that too high advance invoices should be looked at. All these elements are necessary, we fully support them, but attention is distracted by them. The essence of the whole story is that the energy bill for only one third consists of the charge of electricity and that the rest consists of taxes, levies and related items. That task is for the government. The EUR 30 alms will not change that. Energy is 35% more expensive than in our neighbouring countries. I can only hope that the energy standard will be implemented quickly. The main news in Today's Time is that companies are slowly reducing their production due to rising energy prices. I should like to warn against this, because if companies reduce their production, then the scarcity of raw materials will only become stronger. This makes life more expensive, which increases inflation even more. Your fellow Minister Dermagne has denied inflation, but topicality contradicts him every time. I understand earlier that you say that gas reserves are covered for this winter. I am reading something else in the newspaper today, because the European gas market predicts a shortage and says that Belgium only has a gas supply for 12 days. I wonder whether you share that concern or whether you maintain the view that people should not fear this winter. I'll be back on the energy bill. Where is the time when a VAT reduction from 21% to 6% for the socialists was a breaking point to participate in a government? That was a breaking point for them then. Now come to say that there is no majority in favour, not only shows little self-respect but also little political power in the majority. You guys should see red with shame and I don't know if King Connah can keep his mates friendly like that. After all, you promised the socialist emblem, a rose garden, but I can only conclude that your roses have faded. The fun going to be on TV is one thing, but doing something for people and making them entitled to affordable energy, for example, is something else. This VAT reduction is simply a question of justice that everyone should be able to enjoy, including the 80% that is now falling out of the boat. It is a question of logic, because energy is a basic right. It's just a matter of pushing people in the back. It is incomprehensible that this government did not support a reduction in VAT and that Minister Van der Straeten even came to the media to say that not everyone needs it. Madam Minister, explain to those 80% of the people who will pay thousands more for their energy bill, that they do not need a VAT reduction. As you know, the CRM auction is now over, and we also discussed it in committee last week. This means that the gas plants can be fully subsidised in the future. This will not only mean an expensive joke, at the same time wealthy CO2 will also be blown into the air. I can only say that the government is firmly in favour of fossil fuels, and I wonder whether the Minister will be able to sleep on that at night. That hypocrisy also became clear during last weekend's climate march. I referred to it yesterday. Countercurrent has occupied Green's offices because they are concerned about CO2 emissions from the gas plants. Mrs van der Straeten, your party chairman has given a very enlightening answer. Mrs Almaci said that we should open gas plants because otherwise we would have to import expensive energy from abroad. However, you have been saying for a whole year that importing green energy from abroad is cheap. You must explain to me how you reconcile your statements here in Parliament with your party chairman's statement. This hypocrisy with the gas plants is fueled by the fact that you are massively focusing on the electrification of commercial cars, which will have to run with electricity from fossil fuels in the future. So I can only say that your policy is closely linked and that the sense of reality has to be replaced by dogmatic thinking. The whole declaration of government did not mention D-day in November. Remember last year's debate in the Chamber of the European Parliament on the two nuclear power stations which may need to remain open for longer. There is no mention of that now. Next month it will be this far and that choice must be made. I know you didn't choose to extend your lifespan. If you had, fewer gas plants would have been needed. Whatever the turn or turn, nuclear energy is green energy. If we know that nuclear power generation emits only 12 grams of CO2 per kilowatt-hour while gas is 490 grams of C02 per kilowatt-hour, that says more than enough. Yesterday it became clear once again that a European front of ten Member States has emerged which advocates green nuclear energy. Moreover, there are more and more voices in favour of recognizing nuclear energy as green energy. In fact, it is said that nuclear energy is needed to win the so-called climate battle. These small modular reactors are safe, reliable and flexible. If we are talking about nuclear energy, I can only say that Open Vld has gone flat on the belly. Wasn't it Prime Minister De Croo who, when he was Minister of Finance, in full government formation in the newspapers and on the radio said that a lifetime extension was an absolute necessity? I therefore found it particularly ludicrous yesterday that President Lachaert came to say that the nuclear power stations are 40 years old and that we should close them. How quickly can one change one's mind? Former Minister Marghem of the MR is also a cool lover of your policy. That may well be said when I hear the explanations here. Just yesterday, an hour before the debate began in this sitting, Georges-Louis Bouchez, chairman of that same party, called you a dogmaticus. Madam Secretary, what is the matter with your government? Politics is about making choices and not turning around. You are firmly opting for gas plants pending a further roll-out of alternative energy. I am also in favour of renewable energy, but we certainly need to look at its reliability and its dependence on sun and wind, a particularly important factor for this reliability. Furthermore, we should pay particular attention to oversubsidisation. I therefore believe that we should have the courage to think very carefully about the energy mix of the future. Solving everything with the sun and the wind is a trick to people, because I fear that you will still have to import a lot of expensive energy from abroad to use the words of your party chairman. I can only conclude that Vivaldi has failed to meet three essential core values in energy policy. The first value, affordability, is problematic, even though you say that green energy is and will be the cheapest, and because what you do with the energy bill is just a drop on a hot plate. The second core value, reliability, does not satisfy you, as I explained earlier. Thirdly, your policy is certainly not conducive to the environment. I think this has not escaped people's attention, but I fear that we have lost five long years.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip132x.u37	Madam President, Minister, I would naturally like to discuss rising energy prices here. In order to put this into perspective, I would like to repeat what it is about. According to CREG figures from the end of August, an average family will pay 1,000 euros for electricity, an increase of 40 to 65%, and 1,600 euros for gas, which is 100 to 300 % more, depending on the contract. In total, it is an increase of EUR 714 compared to last year, a figure that the CREG issued this week. To date this price has been enormous: yesterday it was 118 euros per megawatt hour on the annual market. In the policy statement, the Prime Minister announces a number of measures, which we also find in the budgetary tables. Thank goodness, I'd say. Madam Secretary, I would like to put five points to you. Firstly, the most important measure you are taking is the extension of the social tariff for people with increased benefits, an additional three-month extension, after the previous extension until 31 December. That is a good measure which we naturally support. Its cost is estimated at 208 million euros. According to our rough calculations, that amounts to half of the extra revenue that the VAT will generate for the State. After all, the increased price automatically increases VAT. We estimate the additional VAT revenue at 580 million euros. You may have a different calculation, if so, we would certainly like to hear it from you. As has already been said, 80% of the population can benefit from the social tariff. These 80% are not all high incomes. Some of them are even low incomes. Take for example a couple whose husband works at Colruyt and the woman in the cleaning, or cashier Debora who has an income of 2500 euros for the family. They're not exactly rich people. So they're out of there. Another point about this social tariff, which you always forget to mention, is that the cost of that social tariff has increased, because it follows globally the cheapest commercial rates. Since January, an average family, according to the CREG chart, has increased that social rate by 308 euros. That is half the increase in the commercial tariff, but EUR 300 is not nothing. You're going to compensate it with a check of 80 euros. So these people get a discount of 80 euros. But that still means that people who enjoy a social tariff are now paying 228 euros more than in January if they are entitled to the social tariff before your corona measures. For them there is still a serious increase in their invoice, and they are already people with little resources. So even for the less fortunate, you are not able to undo that increase for something essential like gas and electricity. My questions to you in this connection are the following, Madam Secretary. Do you acknowledge that this measure is insufficient? What will you do about it? Are you still considering additional measures? What if the price keeps rising? That's the expectation, isn't it? Will you still not do anything extra? My second point has already been raised by Mr Wollants and concerns the energy standard. We have a lot of questions about that. You want to turn the charges into an excise duty. We do not know very much about this yet, but we will find EUR 156 million in the budget tables for 2022, EUR 120 million in 2023, and EUR 60 million in 2024. Plus your promise of 30 euros per family. At some point there was EUR 50, I believe, but that was probably in the first reports. Of course 30 euros is a ridiculous amount compared to the 714 euro increase in the invoice. So I have a lot of questions, but first I want to express my indignation. Yesterday there was a debate on the social tariff, but you left. At that time you went to the patronage, to the VBO and to the Voka to explain the energy standard. So you're the one who's going to explain to the patronial organizations before you explain to us. By the way, Voka reported a scoop. Effectively, Voka had a scoop on us. The VBO found you an example of transparency. In any case, they were very satisfied. I hope that you will be as transparent with us as with them. I would ask you for more information on this. As you know, charges are currently degressive for large-scale users. Will you lift that degressivity? What do you intend to do with that? Why is there a reduction in the budgetary impact in 2024, as Mr Wollants has already pointed out? Does that mean that you will gradually increase excise duties? What about the shift from excise duties on electricity to excise duties on gas? Will you introduce a cliquet system, as requested by the MR? In particular, what is the distribution of EUR 156 million between businesses and families? The companies must also enjoy this and you come to 30 euros per family. Mr Wollants has made the same calculations as me, and if we share EUR 156 million by the number of families, we will indeed get around EUR 30. If there is a part for the companies, then it is no longer EUR 30 per family. How much is it real per family and do you guarantee that you might have another explanation for the 30 euro reduction for the invoice today for the families? Finally, I would like to talk about the energy standard. You have certainly also taken note of the study by the FORBEG, the forum of Belgian Energy Regulators, in which it is widely stated that there is in fact no handicap with regard to energy prices in relation to neighbouring countries, except for a few exceptions. In general terms, therefore, our energy prices would not be a handicap for companies, as is often claimed. I come to my next point, Madam Minister: the Gas and Electricity Fund. It has been announced that there will be an additional EUR 16 million for the Gas and Electricity Fund. That is, of course, positive news. We were the first in this legislature to demand that the Gas and Electricity Fund be given more resources and tabled a resolution which you voted on as a Member of Parliament at the time. However, you have done something with it, because you have increased the budget by unindexing the non-indexation. That was just one of the things the Platform asked for against Energy Poverty, but we naturally agreed with that with great pleasure and pleasure. However, we do not find the announced EUR 16 million for the Gas and Electricity Fund in the budget table. I'd like some more information on that. Is that money under the additional measures higher energy bill or under the other item? What else is the EUR 16 million based on? How did you get that figure? Why, for example, is there no EUR 30 million requested by the Platform against Energy Poverty? Another demand from the Platform against Energy Poverty concerns a review of the indexation mechanism. Indeed, it is particularly clear that gas and electricity prices are rising much more than the normal index and that the OCMWs need more staff. Finally, I would like to address the chairman of the committee who is still in the Chamber. We have been asking for a hearing on the affordability of energy for two weeks. I will come back to that next Tuesday, but I hope that we will soon be able to hold a hearing on this in committee, as we did at the beginning of the legislature. My fourth point is brief, Madam Secretary. It is about the overall picture of the government's current budgetary effort. If we put everything from the budget table from 2021 to 2024 together, we will get EUR 760 million. I would like some clarification on the EUR 220 million additional measures for 2021, which is item 56 in the table. Is that the $80 check, and that's all? Then where is the EUR 16 million from the Gas and Electricity Fund? Finally, I did not foresee this, but Mrs Khattabi herself referred to it a moment ago about biofuels. That is outside the budget, but we are also discussing your policy, of course. As a green minister and former Green MEP, you know that biofuels are particularly bad for the climate due to direct and indirect deforestation. They emit more CO2 over the whole life cycle than fossil fuels, they exacerbate the global food problem by reducing the availability of agricultural land for food and by increasing the price of food crops. They also contribute to the loss of biodiversity due to deforestation, but due to monocultures and pesticide use. Moreover, they push small-scale agriculture in the South. Other consequences include illegal land robbery, forced labour and all kinds of inhumane conditions, which have been sued by various human rights organisations. In your power, you are responsible for transposing the RED II Directive. I would have liked to have heard more about this. As I understand it, all you want to do is phase out food and fodder. I do not know how far you stand with that in the government, because it is not because you want it to be done in the government. Is it true that you are simply allowing energy crops to continue to exist and that you are maintaining or even increasing the share of biofuels? So much for my questions, with a critical note, of course. Overall, we consider the government's measures against rapidly rising energy prices to be really inadequate. Many families stay in the cold, are in trouble and are facing a cold winter.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip132x.u38	Mr Warmoes, I have one more question for you. Some time ago, the Vlaams Belang Group tabled a legislative proposal for a vote in committee on the reduction of VAT on electricity. Why didn't you vote in favour of this proposal?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip132x.u39	We did not do that because we have prepared a proposal for it ourselves. We naturally support our own proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip132x.u40	Our proposal passed many months before yours, on 19 November in plenary. That was even last year, and you did not support it. That's a little weird.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip132x.u41	We in the committee are trying to get all the debates started in an efficient way. Extreme left and extreme right seem to find themselves more and more in the same themes. That VAT reduction is nice, but eventually someone pays the bill. My question to the two parties is, then, who will pay the bill? The total cost must be under control, but there must also be transparency about how we now distribute, subsidise, recover and who ultimately pays the bill when. We are now well in the process of passing that on to the next generations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip132x.u42	Mr Leysen, if you had read our programme and if you had listened to my speech yesterday, you would know that people should not be fooled to scratch crumbs in the margins of money. This government chooses to provide an additional 1.5 billion in taxes in a country with the highest taxes in the world. That's your choice. That is the choice of the liberal government which has been raising the tax burden in Belgium for 22 years. Our choice is to save on matters that do not end up with our own people, the sacred houses that we do not want to touch here. I haven't heard any ambition to limit migration influx. You can make billions out of that. Social security can be shielded from those who do not contribute to it, resulting in 1.1 billion. The political system itself can be saved. Things can be saved in all kinds of ways without their own people paying for it. I am pleased that you are touched that what you call the extremes, PVDA and Flemish Interest in this, share the view that a reduction in VAT on energy from 21% to 6% is a good thing. We have been advocating this for a long time. However, you should be concerned about the lack of consensus within the government, rather than being surprised at the opposition's agreement. In most cases, it is significant when a prime minister himself, in his government statement, has to put a lot of emphasis on the diversity within the government and on the connection. It's usually used to cover up that there isn't one. During the discussion of this declaration of government, I read that a liberal party chairman, not to mention Mr Bouchez, is addressing the Minister for Energy on Twitter. He says that Minister Tinne Van der Straeten has no answer to the CO2 impact of the nuclear trip. Worse still, I quote: 'She says that the reduction target does not change despite the gas plants. This means that citizens will have to compensate for some of the dogmas." Instead of worrying about the unity of opposition parties, you should be concerned about the lack of unity in your own government.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip132x.u43	Mr Leysen, I know that as a liberal, you like numbers. I'm going to give you concrete figures. Mr Pas has already mentioned that a number of sacred houses are not touched: the migration bill, the transfer bill, the billions to Europe, the millions in the political system. However, I am going to give you a specific figure. According to this government, the reduction in VAT from 21% to 6% costs around EUR 1 billion. Where would we get that money? In the run-up to the elections, we had calculations made by the Planning Bureau. A calculation that we have made, and that will sound good to you as a liberal, is that we can create a separate social security for newcomers. We had that calculated according to Danish model, so seven out of eight years lived here and contributed three years. Such a separate social security for newcomers will generate €1.5 billion in the budget according to a calculation by the Planning Bureau. That means you have half a billion left to do something about the price at the pump, because this government is not doing anything for the price at the pump. If we create a separate social security for newcomers, we can both lower VAT on the energy bill and lower the price at the pump by reducing excise duties. It is a simple calculation, which you, as a liberal, will certainly hear well. We simply find that this government is afraid to take such measures. There is not even a debate about it. Throughout the budget debate, such matters, which are obvious and which are government policy in other European countries, are simply unspeakable in this country. That is also why citizens pay blue in taxes. This is the result of 20 years of liberalism in the government. The tax burden has only increased. That's the conclusion and the crushing palmares of your party.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip132x.u44	I do not think I have really heard a question from Mr Vermeersch and Mrs Pas. So I am going to answer Mr Leysen. Mr Leysen, you're asking where we were going to get the money. For starters, the cash register already rings with the state. According to our calculation, VAT now raises 580 million euros extra for the State. So that money's already there. Perhaps Mrs Van der Straeten will come up with another figure later? There is also the question of the usury gains that Electrabel makes with the nuclear power plants. They sell electricity at the price of a gas plant, but their nuclear plants do not have higher production costs. I am not going to go on ice here, because I am not a lawyer and Mrs Van der Straeten is, but we are bored with a contract that Mrs Marghem, the previous minister, concluded with the producer. It is said that this contract cannot be touched. That is the responsibility of Mrs Marghem and not of your party, Mr Leysen, but of your political family. I also did not hear Mrs van der Straeten say that we are going to discuss this, because there is, of course, the legal aspect, but we would like to tax these usury profits, Electrabel bringing in more than a billion euros. That's gotta be the point. That is also what the Spanish Government has decided. Of course, that's not the same contract. VAT has been reduced and the money has been obtained from the profit of the various producers, because that is what hydropower is about. More fundamentally, VAT was introduced a long time ago, in the 1970s. We were against that at the time. VAT is a tax on consumption. That's an unfair tax. We believe that the state's income should come from income, so that the rich contribute more. Those who have the means to do so must contribute more and those who have few resources less. It is not for nothing that two rates have been applied at the time of introduction. If I'm not mistaken, there used to be a third. Champagne and caviar, for example, receive 21 %, the luxury rate. Water gets 6%, because it's a basic commodity, Mr. Leysen. I still don't understand why anyone can say that electricity and gas, to heat, cook and have light, aren't basic needs. There are two rates, why do you place these basic needs at the expensive rate? That's just inexplicable. Of course, we are more fundamentally opposed to this because energy is 'non-elastic'. A person who has a lot of resources will not necessarily warm himself up anymore, perhaps a little, but he will also have a better isolated home, while poorer families often sit in a less isolated house. It is therefore not necessary that they consume much less. So you find these people much more with the VAT. I think I have answered your question, Mr Leysen.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip132x.u45	I'm not worried, but I would advise you to consult with your friends on the other extreme side. You have an agreement on VAT, but one wants to get the money from the migrants and the other from the rich.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip132x.u46	Is anyone else asking for the floor? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip132x.u47	The Minister will ask for a break. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 14 October 2021 at 11.41 a.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, October 14, 2021 at 11.41 a.m.
