ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u2	Madam President, Prime Minister, this Tuesday, in the Committee on External Relations, we had to hear from academics, journalists, representatives of non-governmental organizations (NGOs), but also a survivor of the genocide that is now taking place in Xinjiang province of China with regard to the Uighurs and other Muslim minorities. These people have taken enormous risks to come and testify in our Parliament. Today, all over the world, but also in Belgium, MPs are blacklisted because they defend the rights of these minorities. So I dare not imagine what this Chinese government is holding for these whistleblowers, these survivors and their families right now. I dare not imagine what they risk by courageously denouncing what looks like the darkest pages of our history. Except that these hearings, like all the other proceedings of this Parliament, have been cancelled. As everyone knows, this is a cyberattack that hit Belnet, Parliament's Internet network, but which also affects 200 government organisations, universities, research institutes and sites such as Tax-on-web. An investigation will obviously have to determine whether or not a cyberattack of such magnitude, on the day of such a crucial hearing in such a sensitive case, is a coincidence. Nevertheless, it is our democracy and the functioning of our State that have been affected in the heart of it. Therefore, Prime Minister, can you tell me if we know more about the origin of this cyber attack today? Would personal and sensitive data have been stolen from databases? What are the means currently being put in place by the government to combat cybercrime? Finally, what diagnosis do you make about the security of this internet network? Can it be strengthened? If not, what other solutions do we have today?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u3	Prime Minister, the world is becoming more and more dangerous. Moreover, the danger remains invisible for a long time. Our digital connections are a great asset, but they also make us very vulnerable. Is Belgium, our State, sufficiently armed for the dangers of the 21st century? Colleagues, there was a test two days ago, for which we failed. There was a DdoS attack, not the most difficult type of hacking. The result was huge. Vaccination centres were not safe; universities were not safe; our work here in the Chamber was not safe; students could not take lessons; telework was difficult. It was an attack on our way of life. It was an attack on our democracy. Let me be clear. We could see that attack. As a shot at the bow, we got the signal that they could hurt us if they had to. I therefore have two concerns. First of all, what happens if it's really serious? Secondly, what is happening now that we are not seeing today? Prime Minister, our hospitals depend on the Internet. Our intelligence services depend on the Internet. Even our vaccinations depend on the internet. Today people very often choose a job in a company instead of a job in our security services. However, safety must not suffer from competition. First of all, how will you attract the right profiles? Secondly, how safe are we from invisible attacks? Is that going to be on the agenda of our secret committees? Shall we learn lessons from last week's incident?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u4	Madam President, Prime Minister, our government was attacked through the network of 257 000 places in 29 countries. Belnet, the Internet provider of our government, was the victim of an organized cyber attack on Tuesday. Websites and servers were deliberately targeted with useless requests to block them. The network of 200 public administrations, universities, colleges and also our Parliament was shut down for hours. Online courses dropped out. Employees didn't have the Internet. Online meetings could not take place. In these corona times we have become more dependent than ever on the internet. Young and old, large organisations and local non-profit organisations, all take a digital step forward over the past year. This attack is therefore a very important wake-up call and warning to us. Cyber safety is crucial and requires an integrated approach. Both Internet providers, citizens and businesses and our government will have to step up their efforts. Even more investing in cybersecurity will cost money, but hundreds of organisations and their thousands of employees experienced or couldn't even work at all on Tuesday, and that also brings with it a huge social cost. You know that CD&V always strives to be one step ahead of crime. We must also be one step ahead of Internet crime. What do you think is the estimate of the impact of the damage? How many employees and students couldn't work? Are there any indications that crucial data has been stolen or that cybercriminals have been able to infiltrate our networks? What steps will you take to make Belnet more robust? [[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u5	Prime Minister, this Tuesday, as we were about to start our afternoon meetings here in the House, we learned that these could not take place as a result of a malicious computer act, a cyber attack. It quickly became apparent that this was a DDoS-type cyberattack, based on the principle of massive data sending to a server in order to render it inoperative. It was directed against the Belnet network. The consequences have been significant, as more than 200 organizations depend on this network. Not only the Belgian public services, but also the universities, the research centres of our country, and even our House of Representatives. Although the consequences were fortunately limited and temporary, this event raises many questions in terms of security. As we know, cybersecurity is a key area for the future. The development of our knowledge and skills in this area must be a top priority. This was again recalled this morning by the military intelligence boss. Prime Minister, is the situation under complete control at this time? What information do you have about this case? It is known that following a complaint from the Federal Computer Crime Unit, an investigation by the prosecution is under way. Do you have a vision of how this is going? How long can the conclusions be drawn? Do you have any evidence to raise suspicions, or, on the contrary, to rule out leads, with respect to the authors and their motivations? More broadly, how is our country preparing for the possibility of new cyber attacks on an even wider scale? I am thinking in particular of military services, of our hospital services, and I am moving on. Does this matter have the priority status it deserves in your government? Finally, I would like to draw your attention to the breakdown of competence in this area, in the hands of several ministers. This is a Belgian reality in all areas. The matter is in the hands of your administration, but it is also in the hands of the Minister of Defence and the Minister of the Interior. What is your vision on this point when the cyberattack file is absolutely crucial? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u6	Madam President, the cyberattack we have witnessed this week was of an unprecedented magnitude. As you point out, Mr De Maegd, more than 200 organisations experienced problems with their operation or considerable delays in their services. Here in Parliament too, Mrs Rohonyi, some work could indeed not continue. This also applied to administrations, colleges, universities, hospitals. We also saw that............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. That is indeed quite challenging. But I would nevertheless like to emphasize the professionalism of the Belnet teams who have made every effort to restore connections as quickly as possible. In addition, the cyberattack could be identified very quickly, which allowed us to take the necessary steps to deal with the situation we were facing. Unfortunately, cyberattacks have become daily not only in our country, but also in other states, with consequences comparable to those seen this Tuesday. The private sector is also involved. In Belgium, three out of four companies saw their computer system infiltrated this year. The incident we have experienced is an opportunity to remember that today we are living in a world that has to face a new reality where this kind of crime has an impact that can have a lot of impact on our daily lives. It is also an opportunity to remind us of the importance of investing in infrastructure and its security. What's important? We have not waited for this attack to become aware of the fact that cybersecurity must be part of our policy. The government, like the previous governments, has invested in the services to organise cyber security. In part, this is done by the government, partly through public and private cooperation. In this year's budget review, additional resources have been made available for cybersecurity. Cybersecurity was also an important component of the investment plan that we submitted to the European Commission last week. It is clear that in the coming years we will continue to invest in the quality and protection of the crucial infrastructure. In concrete terms, on 20 May, as already planned, we will be discussing an updated cyber strategy in the National Security Council, which has been developed by the CCB in cooperation with the intelligence services and the security services. We were already working on this, but the cyber attack shows how pertinent it is to come up with an updated strategy, which should also tell us whether our investment path and policy model are adapted to today's situation. As far as Tuesday's case is concerned, the analysis is under way today to try to understand the origin of this attack and the damage and consequences, such as data thefts, that could have taken place. So far, nothing has been confirmed. The analysis is still under way. A complaint was filed with the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office to investigate the case. This is a new reality almost daily. The government's priority for management and investment in this area is therefore justified. This new strategy will be debated, and more may need to be done, as developments in this area are fast and we must be sure that we are up to the challenge.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u7	Prime Minister, thank you for your answers, but also for your investment in our fight against cybercrime. The problem is that we have a considerable delay in this regard. It was therefore urgent to inject the budget that you recalled earlier into our workforce, in particular by filling the cadres of both the Federal Computer Crime Unit (FCCU) and the Regional Computer Crime Units (RCCU). As you rightly pointed out, we must constantly update our cybersecurity strategy. It's fundamental. Since you have not replied to me in this regard, I would also like to point out that your government agreement specifies in particular a legal framework to "avoid any malicious foreign intrusion into our critical infrastructure". Irrespective of the results of the current investigation, it is essential to look at this legal framework both to protect our institutions and all our businesses and to protect the right to privacy of our citizens, but also to defend fundamental rights and freedoms in Belgium and elsewhere in the world.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u8	Thank you, Prime Minister, for the answer, but I must conclude that the approach to cybercrime is too fragmented. A solution at the moment is not enough, a structural change is necessary. How do we put all these responsibilities together? The division of powers makes it far too easy for our opponents. I'm glad you brought this case to your attention immediately. Cybercrime is one of the top three crimes committed in our country. If you draw that towards yourself, it is the best guarantee for a longer-term solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u9	Prime Minister, I am pleased. You speak of an updated cyber strategy and I have already heard Mrs Crevits say this morning that she wants to invest in additional resources for businesses. Mrs Verlinden has already said that she wishes to recruit additional IT profiles from the police. In my view, it is important to look now, together with the government, the states, the companies, the citizens and the Internet providers, to see whether a master plan can be drawn up that will bring all aspects together. I fear that crime through the net could become the most important crime of the future. I would therefore ask you to draw up a major master plan for this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u10	Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this is a very sensitive issue. It must be measured, because it is the heart of the state and democracy that has been reached and paralyzed, but also public administrations, universities and research centres. Prime Minister, you are telling us that three out of every four companies are affected by cybercrime. Who tells us that tomorrow it is not crucial software from hospitals or military centres that will be targeted, with the consequences that we can imagine? Like you, I look forward to hearing the findings of the prosecutor's investigation. You're talking about the strategy that will be updated. I welcome this, of course, since, as I was telling you, this competence has broken out between your administration, the Defence and the Interior. Perfect integration is obviously desirable in order to better combat this phenomenon. The recovery plan foresees investment of EUR 79 million in this area. It is important to maintain the effort. That's a good signal. Prime Minister, our country is home – and this is an opportunity – to particularly successful actors in this field. I am thinking of the European Centre for Security and Space Education (ESEC) in Redu or the global figure of RHEA in Transinne. Therefore, as the saying states, the shoemakers should not be the worst-fitting ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u11	Mr Prime Minister, if even the United States supports the lifting of patents on covid vaccines, then the question arises as to what Belgium is waiting for and what Europe is waiting for. Yesterday was the day. The U.S. was plunging under the global mobilization. Similarly, global support for the lifting of patents is growing. I brought the map. This card colours greener every day, but Belgium and Europe still color red, red of shame. Belgium is still in the club of countries that puts the profits of the pharmaceutical industry above public health. Last week we heard this also here because of our interplay. We'd send in our leftovers and do charity. Mrs Kitir literally said: 'I have not said anywhere that I want to abolish the patent'. Farma.be could go to sleep quietly, because in the morning it had been announced that people would listen very carefully to what the Belgian government would explain in the afternoon. So the pharmaceutical companies could sleep on their two ears. Prime Minister, I think our position has become untenable today. This morning, many statements went in the right direction. The European Union has also expressed its willingness to discuss the proposal. I think the time for talking is over. It's time for action. It's time to scale up production and lift the patents. Prime Minister, I want a concrete commitment from you today. I want to know what Belgium's position is. Will we finally support the lifting of patents or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u12	A few weeks ago, Prime Minister, on the eve of a European Council, I asked you about Belgium's attitude to the problem of the accessibility of vaccines to as many people as possible. Your answer was positive: you committed yourself – and you kept this commitment – to defending the position that access to as many people as possible in the world must be guaranteed. Today the question of the lifting of patents arises. Important actors inside the country, including mutualities and NGOs, have sent an open letter to plead for the lifting of these patents. Minister Kitir was also specific about this in a debate last week. Prime Minister, at a time when the United States itself, under the presidency of Biden, is saying that it wants these patents to be lifted, what attitude are you going to defend to ensure maximum accessibility of these vaccines for all people around the world? It would be a demonstration of our solidarity. Finally, Belgium could then also play the leading role it has always played when it comes to solidarity at the global level.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u13	Prime Minister, yesterday we learned that the United States was going to support the temporary lifting of patents on covid vaccines in the WTO. Finally! They finally heard the appeal of civil societies from both the South and the North. They have finally heard the call from more than 100 countries to the WTO for the lifting of these patents. Finally, they heard the appeal of the 175 Nobel Prize laureates and other political figures who stress the fact that the lifting of vaccines is a vital and necessary step to put an end to the pandemic. Yes, it is a vital and necessary step! Why? Because we lack vaccines to effectively vaccinate the world's population. There are already 3.2 million deaths worldwide and today 50 countries have not yet been able to vaccinate even 2 per cent of their population. This is also vital because the distribution of vaccines is very uneven worldwide. As we know, rich countries have made a low hand on the available doses. It is also because the more the virus circulates, the more the risk of mutation increases, so we take the risk of losing all the gains of the efforts made for more than a year now. Finally, it is vital because the pharmaceutical companies that hold these patents have huge benefits over the pandemic, while they have been supported by public money for research and development. Therefore, yes, the lifting of patents is both a moral and a strategic issue. Yet the European Union is still holding back, even though doors have been opened. Mrs von der Leyen explained that she was now more willing to lift the patents. However, the federal government has still not clearly positioned itself on this issue. But it's not for lack of having asked for it. Already a year ago, the federal Parliament defended a motion for a resolution drawn up by environmentalists calling for the lifting of intellectual property rights in vaccine patents. Mr Prime Minister, my question has remained the same for months: will Belgium finally plead within the European Union for the lifting of patents on covid vaccines?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u14	Madam President, let me be clear: the government's position has always been that we are open to considering the status of patents on covid vaccines. I've reported this before. Let me be equally clear: the principle of a patent cannot be questioned. A patent is a protection and rewards innovation. Making this innovation public is what is essential to a patent. A patent is made public so that it can be used to obtain further innovation. A patent is a very important link in order to continue to gain innovation. However, these are exceptional circumstances, and in exceptional circumstances one should also dare to think about exceptional measures. It seems logical to me that we should sit around the table with the sector and that we should talk about two things. What it is ultimately about is availability and affordability. In the end, these are the priorities. Let me be clear, they need to be drastically improved compared to today. Indeed, it is estimated that people in low-income countries will be able to be vaccinated in 2023. Today, only 0.3 per cent of the population in these countries are. This is not fair from a human point of view. But it is also not a good thing from a personal point of view. If the spread of the virus continues with the risk of mutation that this implies, we will face a new problem. It is clear that we will not be safe until everyone is protected globally. What is our guideline? We are ready to discuss this with an open mind, but pursuing a fair goal, namely faster production at a lower cost. If this measure can help to achieve this objective, we are ready to discuss it. But we still have to prove it. The question arises here as to whether this measure will make it possible to produce more quickly. For now, things are not clear yet. But I repeat that Belgium is open to discussion. With regard to international solidarity, I honestly believe that Belgium has no lesson to learn. Indeed, 70% of vaccines exported to Europe are produced in Belgium. That we do not come here to teach us about international solidarity. It's our knowledge, it's our investments, it's our people, who produce today for the whole world. I think that makes sense. The knowledge we have in our country must be made available to the rest of the world. However, we must not forget that Belgium's position is due to the fact that innovation is rewarded in our country, that we have invested in innovation and that we have an environment in which innovation can take place, for example on the basis of the talent we have in our country. In other initiatives such as the Covax initiative, Belgium was one of the pioneers in this field. I will sit with my colleagues in the European Council on this, absolutely with the aim of ensuring that solidarity can play. More and faster production must be priority number one. If it can be demonstrated that this measure would help to produce faster, more and cheaper, then we need to talk to the sector about this. Let us also remember that this medical breakthrough is unseen. A year ago, people knew with difficulty what kind of pandemic they were talking about. A year later, we have vaccines that were developed, that are safe and that are produced on a massive scale. Nothing like this has ever happened before. This has been done thanks to innovation in the private sector, but also because the public sector has worked together. We have managed to do so with a joint effort. It therefore seems logical to me that if further steps can be taken, in view of the elements I have put forward, we should do so in partnership. We're not gonna do that with drawn knives facing each other. I am convinced that, together with the private sector, we can ensure that more is available, faster and at a cheaper price than is the case today, so that everyone in the world can have access to vaccines.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u15	Prime Minister, what a disappointment! You keep running behind Big Pharma and defending his interests. Don't you see today what damage around the world is caused by keeping patents protected? Half the world, many associations, many countries are asking for patents to be lifted, and today you say that we still have to consider whether this is a good proposal. I can't accept it. I still feel you're very chilly. You weren't clear at all. However, I can tell you one thing: a breach was opened yesterday. For months, we have been fighting around the world for patents to be lifted. I see that Belgium is not taking a clear position. Yet you could have done it today. You have the choice to say that public health patents must be lifted. I see you still don't. So, we're going to continue the struggle to put pressure on you to change your position.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u16	Prime Minister, I heard your answer. In exceptional situation, exceptional response. I believe that, indeed, if Belgium's example, in terms of solidarity, is not to be called into question, we must use this example to act with a lever on all decision-makers, in all possible consultations, to ensure that international solidarity can manifest itself. It will certainly be necessary to ensure that this sector agrees to lift these patents on vaccines. If he doesn't accept it, he'll have to be forced to do it. It is a question of global solidarity and social justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u17	Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. I want to hear you open the door. This is a very good thing and we will accompany you in this direction. I would like to react to some of your comments. Indeed, in exceptional circumstances, exceptional response. If this patenting mechanism is provided for by the World Trade Organization, why not use it? If not today, when? Why was this device invented first? Then you talk about the need for innovation. Of course, companies need to be supported in order to innovate, but let's not forget that a lot of public money has been invested in these patents. The whole population must therefore benefit from it. Let's listen to those who've been growing for months. Let's really be careful and keep trying to find the best solutions. We want to hear that all the efforts we have made in recent months and years are not useless. We want to hear that the words "international solidarity" are not in vain. We want to find an effective and efficient solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u18	Prime Minister, the corona numbers are falling and we feel the temperature rising outside. After more than a year we have walked more than enough in small groups. We are eager to be able to play again in group. Sports does us both physically and mentally good. It is therefore extremely positive that from Saturday we will be able to play outdoor sports again with 25 people. However, there is a catch: sports competitions are still prohibited, although they can take place outside perfectly in safe conditions. Minister Weyts referred yesterday in the Flemish Parliament to the federal rules, but that statement does not reflect his responsibility. In fact, in the notifications of the Consultative Committee, we read literally that the competent Community ministers decided to suspend amateur competitions for adults and that they subsequently also decided not to allow competitions. In my view, making it possible to compete for outdoor sports without an audience is a logical consequence of the relaxations that take place on Saturday. In addition, there is also the sector of indoor sports. This is an underexplored and forgotten sector, which is of course also very important for physical and mental well-being, not only for the athletes, but also for those who teach. They want to be allowed to work again. Think about personal trainers or fitness and dance instructors. Those people have no perspective so far. Measures and facilitations must be considered at sport level. They must be formed through the necessary protocols, to which the Communities also contribute their expertise. Prime Minister, what is the federal government's position on sporting events? Will the ban on sports competitions be lifted at next Tuesday's Consultation Committee for permitted sports? Are you prepared to have the Communities investigate sport by sport where relaxation is possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u19	Mrs Verhaert, the covid figures are indeed falling. I agree with you on that. Whether the temperatures are rising today, I haven't felt it yet. This will probably be the case in the next few days. You're right. Sport is an important aspect in the lives of many people. Especially outdoor sports today is an outlet and allows people to meet other people and get some relaxation. The Committee's reasoning has always been that we should consider how we could safely allow a restart of activities. A number of relaxations will take place in the coming weekend; from Saturday 8 May 2021, organised sports activities can take place up to 25 people. There is still a ban on amateur competitions. The federal government is loyal to what has been decided in the Conciliation Committee, whatever you indicate. At the October 2020 Consultation Committee, there was an agreement between the relevant regional Sport Ministers to cancel all amateur competitions. In January 2021, the competitions were not recommended by the community ministers, as confirmed in the memorandum on extracurricular activities. But more important is the way we look forward. To your question about the Consultation Committee next Tuesday 11 May 2021, I can answer that the Consultation Committee will consider whether the prohibition of competition can be lifted. The matter is on the agenda of the Consultative Committee. After all, competitions cannot take place today. I am convinced that we can find ways to ensure that competitions take place safely. As you point out, we need to consider how we can safely allow indoor infrastructure and fitness activities to take place. This is also the new philosophy on which our strategy is based: we allow as much as possible and see how this can be done safely. In this way, we can ensure that people can practice their beloved sport, including in competition.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u20	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answer. We must care about both the physical and mental well-being of our citizens. That's where, for everyone here, the focus should be. It doesn't do us any good. People expect solutions. I am very pleased that you are working on this. After this very difficult year we are eager to be able to play again in group and to participate in competitions. Not only the athletes but also the teachers of the indoor sports are jumping to start again.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u21	Prime Minister, this night's agreement shows that negotiations are working at the government table. Granted, I was a little more sure this morning than I am now. I shall now give some thought to my words, because I have already heard reactions from several colleagues to the agreement this morning. CD&V is convinced that a balanced agreement is on the table here. It takes into account what lives on the ground, because our economy is bleeding and it will be an incredible challenge to be able to pay that rise in wages by 3.2 % this year. At the same time, this agreement also allows companies that do well to share their employees in profits. I don't feel euphoria today because the road is still long. There are still important dossiers on the table, such as minimum wages. The agreement makes a good move towards further negotiation. I am particularly sorry that in 2018 no agreement could be reached on the increase of 1.1 %. As a result, 250,000 people are still contributing 300 euros today, because a certain union was talking about 'crumbs' and could not agree to that. That's very unfortunate. There are also the important files on runways and overtime. I hope that the social dialogue will seize this opportunity to conclude agreements on this subject. Prime Minister, I have two questions. Do you have a timing for the third phase? If there is no immediate clarification, will the government take the initiative by royal decision to deliver the EUR 500 as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u22	Madam President, Prime Minister, Minister, it was a relief to hear this morning that the government has reached agreement on maximum wage increases for the next two years. The corona virus creates a lot of economic uncertainty and it was important to show leadership and cut the buttons so that employees and companies know where they stand. The employees in the few companies that have managed well despite corona can receive an additional reward. At the same time, the economic recovery after corona is not mortgaged by derailing wages. The agreement contains three main lines of action which are extremely important to us. Firstly, the wage standard is not affected. If we want to stand up quickly after the uppercut that Corona gave our economy, we must ensure that we can continue to compete with neighbouring countries. Secondly, within that framework, the workers of companies that have done well can also be rewarded. Thirdly, the social partners are asked to continue working on several important dossiers, including the increase in the minimum wage, the harmonization of supplementary pensions for workers and employees, overtime, the end of their careers and so on. Now the agreement has to be worked out within the government and by the social partners. We think it is important that the company itself can decide on the premium and also consider what is possible. In SMEs, too, managers want to be able to reward their staff for the good results. Prime Minister, Minister, can you confirm that the agreement remains within the framework of the 1996 law so that our companies can continue to compete with neighbouring countries? Within what framework can companies decide on the granting of the one-off premium? Do charges have to be paid? What agreements will the government (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u23	Colleagues, there is finally an agreement. However, the ink is not dry yet and the discussion is not yet settled whether the spider has started yet. Prime Minister, I would like to ask you today to dot and make it clear here and confirm exactly what it is, so that the people at home know what they can count on and everyone can see the difference with what was on the table last week. It's clear to us. There are three main points. Firstly, wages are rising and covid premiums or wage increases are not included. Secondly, the premium. Last week there was no more premium, now we are talking about EUR 500 net. The premium is for those sectors where it is possible to negotiate at sector level, which have been well-farmed and where it is only fair that workers who have contributed to it also receive their fair share. Thirdly, minimum wages with a structural increase. Finally, I would like to read: 'The government proposes that the social partners should work towards raising the minimum wage, the evolution of which has not followed the evolution of previous wages'. The government is also linking financial opportunities to this. Three very important points. Colleagues, in addition to increasing the budget for health, minimum pensions and benefits, we are now also raising those wages on top of the index in times of crisis, for a premium of EUR 500 net, for minimum wages that will increase structurally. That is particularly important. Where in Europe do we see such social progress in times of crisis? Quite rightly, because my party, together with the PS, has fought for this within the government. However, there must be no confusion about it, Mr Prime Minister, and therefore two questions. Firstly, can you confirm the three points I have just mentioned? Secondly, can these negotiations be conducted at sector level?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u24	Prime Minister, Minister Dermagne, how could you have made such a decision? In particular, how have the left-wing parties been able to decide to impose a ban on all wages in Belgium to rise above that 0.4%? Did you see who applauded today? The Liberals are celebrating! The Federation of Enterprises of Belgium (FEB) has gone so far as to organise a press conference, ladies and gentlemen! They're happy:open bar! We've brought everything back, it's all in our pocket! They're all happy! Is that what happened on May 1st? Did we demand that on May 1st? What about Article 14? What about the demand for real freedom to negotiate? Ladies and gentlemen, dear comrades of Vooruit, how do you explain this to Debora? How do you explain to her that Colruyt can spend 185 million euros on dividends, but that wages are blocked up to 0.4%? How do you explain that to Debora? I couldn't, even more, I wouldn't dare. You're saying there's gonna be another $500 bounty? That's 20 euros a month. And that will not be in all companies. Unizo already says that it will be up to 10% of the companies. Up to 90% of companies will not see anything of that 20 euro. Moreover, that premium is not given in money, but will be a consumer cheque, this to make sure that people do not get money. You should try to exchange a consumer cheque in the shops! You won't even get a refund! How dare you? Give people the freedom to negotiate. It is not yet done, Prime Minister, I feel that the Vivaldi government is raving. The workers and the servants feel the same way. Give them back freedom, Prime Minister, to negotiate. ArcelorMittal gives 300 million euros in dividends, BASF gives billions of euros in dividends. You must give the sectors the freedom to negotiate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u25	Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, when a crisis such as this is going on, it is important to remain serious and pragmatic. For this reason, the agreement reached last night within the government, which sets out a reasonable proposal for mediation around this interprofessional agreement for the next two years, is obviously a positive new one. The 1996 law, you will confirm to me, is maintained; the margin of 0.4 % will be applied well; finally, the workers will see their wages increase by 3.2 % over the next two years. Anyway, here's something effective. Furthermore, the Government confirmed that the welfare envelope would be used and that its distribution would remain in line with the agreement between the social partners. I also intend that additional assistance will be given to the self-employed. Our minister in charge of the Independents will detail the content very soon. Such a measure is equally essential in this crisis, since the people concerned are going through deep distress and are now exsanguing. Besides, it was also necessary to offer the opportunity – like what the Wilmès government had undertaken – to companies that are successful and experiencing real growth, which must be taken into account, to award a bonus of 500 euros net to their workers. It is indeed normal that they should be allowed to reward them. Whatever your critics say, these are good decisions, which not only preserve employment, but also do not affect the competitiveness of companies. Therefore, Mr Prime Minister, Mr Vice-first, in what period of time will the social partners – since the ball is now on their side – have to decide on this proposal? Will initiatives be taken to reach a successful outcome?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u26	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take you to a few weeks ago. From the employers there was nothing possible on top of the wage standard. There were employers' organisations who could then agree to a cheque of 250 euros, but an effort could only be made in companies with a turnover increase of at least 30%. The unacceptable proposals by employers are now off the table. The outcome of last night offers more perspective to the workers, and that is more than right, because these are extremely difficult times. On top of the indexation, on top of the rise in wages of 0.4%, on top of the previously decided wage increases in the care sector, for example, there is now the possibility of a net corona premium of 500 euro. There will also be an increase in minimum wages. The previous government, ladies and gentlemen, has never been able to decide this. I do know that euphoria is out of the question, as has just been said, they were extremely difficult debates. However, there is now a compromise and we hear the logical response of the social partners, who can, of course, go 100% on their own points. However, this government has decided and the social partners have never got out. This government has also had to decide. The Vivaldi Government now has an agreement and, as explicitly requested, there will be an additional effort for the workers in companies that have done well. However, Prime Minister, the work is not finished. For us, it is crucial that the commitment to increase minimum wages is now being implemented really quickly. There are tens of thousands of people in precarious working conditions who have to do physically heavy work for nothing more than charity. That's gotta be done. Previous governments have never been able to solve this, but the Vivaldi government must have a high standard. We would like to ask you to include that glove, to do what is necessary and to facilitate that increase in minimum wages.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u27	Prime Minister, if you have to spare the cabbage and the goat, you usually get a five-legged sheep. I have to be honest, despite the dividend blackmail, red has gone flat on the belly here. Forward is in reverse. Still, a lamb was born, which I didn't expect. I called you a communist last week. I will call you a socialist in the future. What strikes me throughout this affair is yet another failure of the social dialogue. I recommend our friends from the ACW to read Rik Van Cauwelaert's booklet about Fons Verplaetse. On page 238 he writes that Dehaene no longer believes in social dialogue because it always has to be financially lubricated by the government. In a quarter of a century, nothing has really changed. The trade unions, Mr Hedebouw, make more money from the unemployed than from the working people. Large companies pay less corporate taxes than they receive subsidies from the government, if the amounts of SNCB are included. The Michael government gave more than a billion euros of RSZ discharge for the recruitment of a first employee. That has brought in zero euros. Hence my question, Prime Minister. When does state conduct stop? Mr Hedebouw, I agree with you when you say that freedom of negotiation must be returned to the people and sectors. We won't save our economy with a consumer cheque. That is why I ask you: when does this conductism stop? When will you return the negotiations to the people where they belong?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u28	Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, in this difficult time, the fights are won one by one: the guarantee of a balance to refinance social security, the significant increase in the health care budget, the immediate realization without blackmail of the welfare envelope, i.e. 800 million euros to increase the lowest social benefits and the lowest pensions. Mr. Minister of Labour, thank you for all these achievements! Today, we are talking about wage increases. If this is the case with a proposal for mediation that still needs to be discussed, it is because social consultation is failing. Indeed, on the employer's side, we have been constantly showing contempt, indecency – I said last week – over the legitimate demands of a fair wage. You then move forward with a proposal which will lead to 3.25% increase, including indexation, but which is beyond the 2.5% provided for in the German agreement which is conditional. This proposal, which must also be seen in the light of the lack of agreement in the Netherlands and France, must be borne in mind, would be accompanied by a bonus of EUR 500 net plus an employer's contribution which will refinance social security but which will be negotiated, as we must say, in the sectors. It's an important part of what's on the table. A third fundamental element is that there is also the question of the minimum wage on the table. Let us be clear, Prime Minister: for us, everything is connected! If there is no advance on the minimum wage, then we refer to the freedom to negotiate between the social partners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u29	Mr Prime Minister, about a year ago, when you were Minister of Finance, I already questioned you about the corona premium. You will no doubt remember your proposal of 1 April last year to grant a corona premium to workers who remained in work in difficult circumstances. A bonus of up to EUR 1,000, free of social security contributions or taxes, was then discussed. That promise ultimately came down to a premium of which barely half was left. Also this year you will unpack big with a corona premium. But this time the costs are for the employer. So you're actually unpacking something that someone else has to take the fall for. Companies that have performed well will now be able to grant their employees a premium of up to EUR 500. That corona premium therefore depends on the goodwill of the well-performing company, on the one hand, and on the negotiating capacities of the trade unions, on the other. You are not only putting pressure on employers, but you are also creating a wedge between the employer and the employee, who will of course assume that there is a premium ahead of him. Instead of arbitrariness, the corona premium was better determined by sector. And what about employers who haven't been very good farmers, but who want to give a premium to their hard-working staff? The only winner in the whole story is the federal state. You announce something with a lot of poeha, for which you do not have to pay and at the end of the ride you will also enter the taxes to eat the empty state treasury. Prime Minister, what is it going to be: a corona premium for all the corona heroes, or a sweetener for the happy few?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u30	Ceci n'est pas un accord. With tonight's so-called agreement, you are mainly exposing the divisions within your government and the problem is actually being passed on to the companies, to the sectors. An extra premium of 500 euros for companies that have done well. However, you have not even reached an agreement in your government to record what is actually a company that has done well. That is the essence of this story, but there is no agreement on the essence. Prime Minister, the agreement not only exposes the division within your government. It'll cost our country jobs, too. After all, you are now moving that hot, now half-burned potato back to the farms, the sectors where, of course, the pressure will now be extremely high. You're playing the Socialists' card again. The pressure will be enormous to distribute such a premium to everyone, even in those companies that have been bleeding in this corona crisis for a year. In this way, with your government, you will once again give in to the pressure of the PS and the wage costs in our country may rise again more than in our neighbouring countries. Just like that, it does cost jobs. Then the question is again why you do not take responsibility with your government? What are we supposed to mean by companies that have done well? Why allow wages in our country to rise more strongly than in our neighbouring countries, which will undoubtedly cost jobs, not least those jobs of the most vulnerable profiles in the labour market, the jobs with the lowest wages? They'll be on the block first with your agreement. Mr Laaouej is right, he is sharing the sheets and he is explaining it very well: this is not a decision of the government, this is a new negotiating proposal from the government to the social partners who are getting the burnt chips thrown back into the lap. You do not accept your responsibility, and that is bad, not least for those who are working today for a low wage.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u31	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will answer the questions together with the Minister for Employment. Last Thursday I had a long talk with the social partners together with the Minister for Labour. This showed that it was not possible for employers and employees to come together to reach a wage agreement within the framework defined by the government. The government had set out very clearly the framework within which an agreement could be reached and said that it would like an agreement to be possible. The government had also made it very clear what steps it would take if that were not possible. On Friday, the chairman of the Group of Ten informed me that she assumed that it would indeed be the government that would take decisions on the wage agreement. At the same time, and it is essential from my point of view, the social partners had been clear about the fact that there were other subjects on which they were prepared to enter into negotiations. I think this is important, because we are at an economic turning point. In the coming weeks, it is clear that we will be able to emerge from this economic crisis. In order to do this, we need social partners who are able to conclude agreements in which they come together at such a crucial moment. The 1996 Law states that the government will submit a conciliation proposal if the social partners fail to reach an agreement. That was our decision: last night we drew up a conciliation proposal. I hear from the ones that it is not enough, others say it is far too much, and so I think Mrs Muylle has said it well: it is a reasonable and balanced agreement, which is ultimately the essence of social dialogue. The social dialogue cannot work if one has to win over the other. It can only work if one finds one another. It is clear that the government has tried to facilitate this with an agreement that strengthens purchasing power in a way that is bearable. I hear a lot of cries here and it is easy to say that it must be more, but one must ensure that the measures to be taken are also bearable for those who have difficulty. In concrete terms, what does that mean? We confirm the wage margin of 0.4%. Naturally, as Mrs Muylle has said, it must be added to the indexation that is planned. In total, over a two-year period, there will be a potential 3.2% increase in purchasing power. We also give the possibility to companies that have achieved good results or have worked well, to offer a covid premium, up to a maximum amount of 500 euros net. Of this, there will be a 16.5% employer contribution. Some say that the premium is not sufficiently defined. What definition do we want to use? There may be companies that have turned more revenue. There may also be companies that have not necessarily increased their turnover but that feel that their employees have done their best. Although their turnover has not increased, they want to give their employees who have taken everything out of the closet the opportunity to get some of the result. It is precisely because we do not attach any conditions to this measure that solidarity will play but will also work. Now, technically, this proposal is indeed based on the consumer cheque that has been used in the past. This means that we can talk about this premium at sector level and at company level, but it has to be about companies that have done better. It cannot be the intention to conclude an agreement and to push companies which are in a particularly difficult situation into the abyss. It cannot be the intention to impose an obligation on companies that they cannot handle at all. But I repeat: a conversation at company level or at sector level is possible. By the way, I don't see how that would be illegal. Finally, the government confirms, of course, that the welfare envelope, on which an agreement was reached, will be implemented. This is important, because this is a 2% increase in pensions, and the holiday allowance for retired workers will also increase to 6.5 %. We have also asked the social partners to continue working on a number of issues, such as the minimum wage, the increase in overtime, the end-of-life debate, and the harmonisation of the second pillar. Madam President, I would ask you to give me a little more time, because there are many points that require an explanation. As far as the minimum wage is concerned, if we look at the trend since 2008, we find that the evolution of the minimum wage did not follow that of the other wages. That is why we call on the social partners to work on elements with a view to developing a convergence path spread over several IPAs that will be deployed as soon as the crisis of the coronavirus is behind us. The government is prepared to make its contribution through tax and parafiscal measures to avoid any harmful effects, for example in terms of job creation. In my view, it would be desirable for the social partners to be able to engage in a positive and constructive dialogue in these areas. The most important lesson from this corona crisis is that nothing is realized during this crisis when one is facing one another with drawn knives. We have seen this on the medical side of the management of the pandemic and we see it on the economic side. In an atmosphere in which parties or social partners with drawn knives are opposed to each other, there are no balanced agreements. In an economic crisis that affects everyone, we can only progress if we conclude balanced agreements. Within this government, we have shown that we have the opportunity to conclude agreements that are balanced and can help everyone move forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u32	Ladies and gentlemen, this is a complex, difficult issue. He is even more so in these troubled times. Unfortunately, the social partners have not reached an interprofessional agreement despite the efforts made by a number of interlocutors, in particular by the Prime Minister and myself. In accordance with the 1996 law, we therefore had to take up the case and submit a proposal for mediation to the social partners. This mediation proposal includes a series of fundamental things for the government and for myself. First, there is the agreement on the allocation of the welfare envelopes, which concern pensioners, the unemployed, beneficiaries of social integration income or income replacement allowance. It is an agreement of more than 800 million euros that re-aligns these allocations, which is essential in the fight against poverty, which is one of the objectives of this government. In addition to this, we have decided, in compliance with the government agreement – which provides for the use of circulars to give room for negotiation and wage increases – that the premiums and benefits awarded in the context of the covid crisis may be immune. They will not, therefore, reduce the wage standard. It's an essential element. In addition, we have proposed a Corona bonus. This premium is 500 euros net for workers. It can be negotiated at the level of sectors and companies without strict conditions for granting it. This is also social consultation, it is to trust the social partners on the ground, close to the realities, where those who put their hands in the country are aware of the potential but also of the difficulties of our entrepreneurs and businesses. It is an essential element for me that this can be done at this double level. Finally, as you know, the social partners are also invited to work on a series of key issues. I am thinking in particular of the issue of the convergence of the minimum wage with other wages. This proposal for mediation seems to me to be broadly balanced and capable of responding to the major challenges of our time, however, of course, that it should be implemented as a whole. As far as the Corona premium is concerned, as I have said, it is based on Article 19quinquies of the Royal Decree of 28 November 1969, which provides, in paragraph 2, first, that the award of the consumer cheque which will serve as the basis for the granting of this Corona premium must be provided for by a collective agreement concluded at sectoral or company level. This makes it possible to cut the wings to some ducks I hear or read from this morning. Like the Prime Minister, I wanted to clarify this important point. Secondly, the corona premium will be tax-free for workers. We treat that premium in the same way as the consumer cheques awarded in 2020. A patronial contribution of 16.5 % will be paid by the employer. Financing our social security is also important – and therefore not just symbolic – because we know how much it was there, supporting businesses and their workers, as well as the self-employed. So it's a fair return. Finally, another essential aspect of this file is the question of raising the minimum wage. As I have said, apart from the index, the minimum wage has not increased since 2008. There is therefore a deficit in relation to the median wage. In 2008, it represented 53 per cent of the median wage. Today, it represents only 46% of this wage. We could make a similar comparison with the average wage. This is obviously unacceptable to us. We talked about it here last week and we were able to talk to some of you. It is unacceptable that workers who rise up in the morning to go to work, to do their work, are not paid enough for this work, which is often a difficult, difficult work and, for many of them or others, part-time work. The government is clearly committed to fighting poverty in general but also for precarious workers. This increase in the minimum wage, this trajectory which will have to be set in motion and be carried out on several IPAs, is an essential element in the fight against poverty but also in social justice, in the fairness between workers and workers. This is not nothing because we have indeed asked the social partners to move forward on this and other issues that the Prime Minister has mentioned, with a commitment from the government to support the efforts that will be made by companies and employers to raise this minimum wage significantly. This is essential for us. It is part of this agreement. This agreement is a whole. It's a balance. All its components must be respected and executed in good faith. That is the will of the government as a whole and that is what we call the social partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u33	As the subject is of great importance, the ministers have been given extra time. That is why Members will now be given extra time for their reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u34	Prime Minister, some think it is too much, others too little, others think the government wants to spare the cabbage and the goat. Would it be a real CD&V chord, as some commentators claimed this morning? In any case, let us be clear, what is on the table is a conciliation proposal in line with the 1996 law. For us, that agreement must be implemented. We have taken an important first step with EUR 700 million for the welfare envelope. Now we are taking an important second step. For us, there is only one objective, and I will come here every week if necessary: we need to save jobs, safeguard people's purchasing power and securely guide companies through the crisis. That is the Christian Democratic project, for which we are going.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u35	Prime Minister, Minister, thank you for your answers. At the same time, I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate you on the leadership shown. Last week we had no agreement. A lot of hours have been spent on it. It has been shown that the political world can make a difference. It is important that there is a balanced agreement for both employees and companies. Companies that did well can indeed do something extra, but that is not the case for every company. It is still important that our competitiveness is protected. There's still a lot of work to be done, as we've heard. I hope that you will work with the social partners to ensure that all employees and companies come out well.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u36	Mr Prime Minister and Minister, thank you for your answers. It is a good thing that you are making this clear, especially when I hear some of my colleagues. Wages are rising structurally. This is particularly important for the lowest wages. An opportunity is being created to negotiate and grant a net premium of EUR 500 at sector level in companies where it has gone well over the past period. It is good, Prime Minister, that you have stressed once again that this can be done at sector level. The essence of these negotiations is solidarity. Some parties here prefer to ignore that. They ignore the fact that what's on the table now is a lot better. Last week there was no agreement, the negotiations were completely blocked and everything was blocked. They prefer to ignore the fact that the lowest wages go up and that the premium is paid to workers who can use them effectively. Mr Hedebouw, EUR 500 is not so little. You act like that's not a big deal. But for a lot of people that is an incredibly large amount and therefore very fundamental. One can ignore that, but no one has been helped by that, no one is making any progress. This is the essence of the debate: the social dialogue has been held and the government has taken its responsibility; it has taken the lead and it is now up to the social partners to sit around the table again.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u37	Mr. Minister of Labour, you say that you have given the freedom to negotiate a bonus of 500 euros, but above all you have withdrawn the freedom to negotiate beyond 0.4%. This was not yet decided last week, this is the decision that was taken this weekend by the government, by its attempt at conciliation, but there is no conciliation! It is enough to look today who is happy and who is not. I am speaking here to the left parties. I can understand that you came to explain "We couldn't go further, it's the balance of power...", but stop defending this agreement! You can still see how happy the bosses are! They're partying! Look how happy the Liberals are! Don't tell me that doesn't affect you, you see that union representatives and workers are not happy! Mr. Secretary, you can see for yourself that not only does the PVDA say that? The ADVV and the ACV are not happy. I answer to all those who say that the class struggle is over that it is not true. All you have to do is see the different reactions today. Look at how the interests of the different classes of the population are expressed! See how happy the boss is! The photo was taken. See how discontented workers' representative organisations are! The picture's here. This shows that conflicting interests exist. I had hoped that this government would bring a nuance, a freedom to negotiate. Today, it is a good tone to criticize trade union organisations. As far as I am concerned, I bring them to my heart because they represent millions of workers organized collectively, who do not have the power of the richest, who do not have this undemocratic power of those who have money (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u38	Mr. Hedebouw, you have received an additional 30 seconds of time and you have still exceeded your 30-second time. I therefore have to withdraw the floor. In any case, your comments are not recorded.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u39	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u40	Mrs Reuter, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u41	Prime Minister and Minister of Labour, thank you for that clarification. I can't help smiling, but we're gonna come back to earth and argue seriously. I confirm that the agreement and the government's proposal for mediation are a good solution, a balanced solution. When you have a crisis like the one you have just suffered and you are still suffering, you have to look at the future. Our economy must be preserved. What's important? It is of course that the social partners agree, because attention must be paid to social dialogue. Nevertheless, we must also look ahead and ensure, as the government agreement provides, that we can really reduce the burden on work. We must pay particular attention to the low and medium incomes, fight against the pitfalls in employment, increase the purchasing power of our workers... That is serious work; that is what the government must do. Today, this is no longer the time to laugh, we really need to make our country and our economy work. It is a balanced agreement, and it is precisely through this balance between employers and workers that we will be able to keep our country in good hands and in a viable economy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u42	Madam President, Prime Minister, Minister, thank you for your answers. Everyone must be paid a decent wage for their work. That commitment has been made. As far as we are concerned, this is also part of the agreement reached this night. People with low wages and vulnerable professions should definitely improve under this government. There are people who rise every day to earn a gross hourly wage of EUR 9.66. That's not like this anymore, so that has to be solved. That commitment as a matter of principle was made last night. I understand very well that there are still many questions about the implementation of such an agreement. That's normal. Those questions are online and were also asked by colleagues here. I believe that you have already given a number of clear answers. It is important for us that the negotiations can also be conducted at sectoral level. That has been a clear answer on your part. With regard to those colleagues from the opposition who talk here almost every week about a major political crisis in Vivaldi, I would like to say the following. Vivaldi hung on the ropes, so to speak, we would never get out and only the fight against the coronavirus would hold this team together. There can also be some talk of what has already been achieved. These are difficult times, but agreement has nevertheless been reached on the CRM, the core exit, the use of the EUR 700 million wealth envelope, a (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u43	Mr Muylle, I was wrong. It wasn't about the cabbage and the goat and no lamb was born. This is about a dead sparrow. I listened to the Prime Minister and the Minister. It's about a dead sparrow, about a mediation proposal. We are waiting impatiently for that wealth envelope and for the debate on minimum wages. Colleagues, admit you're going flat on the belly. Up to 94% of all companies have suffered losses. We are talking about 6% of the number of companies that could benefit from this and then only when it is discussed by sector, Mr Hedebouw. I am waiting impatiently for the social peace to come. Prime Minister, you know that I would like to invite you to do a terrace. You're still welcome. Then you will be able to hear that the café boss or the restorer, who will now be allowed to open his terrace legally, do not worry, before which the terraces were also legally opened will say: "Look, I've been sitting here on my gums for seven months and have tried to survive. I find it difficult to employ staff now, because the fall in unemployment still makes this a disaster. I must immediately give the new staff 3.2 % increase". Gentlemen ministers, come with me to drink a Duvel on a terrace.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u44	We will remember that some, on the employers' side, were not so long ago proposing an index jump, the consequences of which we know, since we had to deplore it under the previous government; I mean an impoverishment of the workers. Not only, Mr. Minister of Labour, with your prognosis, are you making sure that the entire government rejects these demands as far-fetched as they are unjust, but you also double a proposal for a Corona bonus. Let us remember that, in the past, it was barely 250 euros. But you propose to double it. This is a net premium, including an employer's contribution to refinance social security. You rightly recall that the whole is linked and that no progress is possible without progress on the minimum wage field. Who in this assembly can think that one can live decently while working for 1,600 gross euros – I round up! –, which therefore go back to 1 300-1 400 net maximum? Who can believe it? Is that the message we want to deliver to the workers, who have continued their work throughout the health crisis? We think the opposite! Minister of Labour, we stand by you in your fair fight!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u45	Madam President, Prime Minister, when people are drawn against each other, nothing is realized. However, you do not realize anything with empty or half promises. Prime Minister, Minister, our corona heroes, namely the care and nurse, the doctors, the shopkeepers, the logistics staff, the transporters, the port workers, the bus drivers and the many employees and the self-employed, who have kept our society straight for over a year now, deserve a corona premium, which you promised in 2020. You are now shifting responsibility on the companies rather than taking the initiative, to pay a net and non-taxable premium to our corona heroes. The workers are subject to crumbs, although they deserve a fair piece of the cake. The employers pay extra charges. In the meantime, the muddled government benefits and feeds the state treasury.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u46	Madam President, Prime Minister, I do not know if you have noticed, but it is Mr Laaouej of the PS who is calling you again today. There is indeed no agreement, unless there is agreement on everything. Now the minimum wages come back on the table. Mr Laaouej was also one of the Members who did not applaud your answer to our questions. It's true that the PS is in charge of the current government. Piece by piece she brings in what she wants to bring in. To begin with, they first obtain an agreement on the welfare envelope, which will inevitably cause inactivity traps, which cannot really be the intention. The back gate is then pushed open to allow exceptions to the wage standard. Now the minimum wages are on the table. Of course, at the end of the month, people must be left with more, not least those who work at low wages. However, this is not done by increasing the gross wage costs of minimum wages and other wages. This is mainly done by introducing lower labour costs. In fact, the government could have been particularly supportive of the employers and employees by giving net premiums of 3.2 % for the present. This way, employees will have more left in their pay bags at the end of the month. In this way, even wage costs will not be further increased if this increase is not necessary. Instead, you shift your responsibility to the sectors. We are a great advocate of sectoral consultation. However, such consultation can only thrive on fertile ground and not at all on the scorched earth, which you leave behind with your government last night.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u47	Ladies and gentlemen, but above all, dear citizens, ladies and gentlemen, today I am doing what the government failed to do, namely to inform you of an extremely important decision it made at the Council of Ministers on 25 March. The government then decided to approve the subsidies for the newspaper distribution until the end of 2027, for an amount of as much as EUR 800 to 900 million. You heard me right. The same government that communicates pressure for every nothing, is now silent here. Let me give you some examples. She grants 195,000 euros to Unia. Press release! The Government of the Buildings rents a warehouse for customs in Ghent. Press release! The purchase of shirts and blouses for the integrated police. Press release! But here, about a decision of EUR 800 million or more, nothing is said. Not a word. How do I know? A spokesperson from Bpost has spoken his mouth to a journalist from Het Laatste Nieuws. That's why it was in the paper. It would be expected that the Council of Ministers will decide matters, not bedisselt. We are talking about back room politics of the lowest level. Is this the new political culture that people so often hear about? For me, these are at least serious violations of the moral duty of a government to communicate openly and transparently to its citizens. Hence my question, Minister. Who has decided to withhold this important information from the general public and not to report it in the weekly press release you are sending?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u48	Madam President, Mr Freilich, this important concession was, of course, communicated, as required by the public procurement procedure. Belgium has issued a European tender application for the concession. On 27 April, a call for nomination was published on the website of the FPS Economy. The public contract was also published by means of an electronic tender on the e-Procurement platform and published in the Official Journal of the European Union. In addition, contact was made with the Centrale Raad voor het Bedrijfsleven and the Belgian Institute for Postal Services and Telecommunications to inform them about the concession. They have also been asked to bring the concession to the attention of the public. Finally, articles have also been published in the press. Companies can apply until 1 June at 2 p.m. The candidates will only be known then. The next step for the concession is the publication of the specifications. This was prepared by the FPS Economy in collaboration with an economic consultancy firm and a law firm specialising in competition. The handbook has yet to be discussed within the government before publication. I repeat what I said in committee: the concession will be granted after an open, transparent and non-discriminatory tendering procedure has been completed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u49	Mr Minister, this is a public invitation to tender. Of course, this must be made public at some point. But it didn't happen until a month later. It's been on the website since last week. My point is that there is no mention of this in the minutes of the Council of Ministers or in the press communication sent out to the broad population. It was only later that it was announced, that it came out. Every little thing is communicated, but not this. I also know why. It is particularly embarrassing for the liberals. When Vincent Van Quickenborne was still in Parliament, this legislature, he tabled a legislative proposal to limit this subsidy. I understand, of course, that he wants to do everything he can to ensure that we do not talk about it. But that's calculated without me. I'm closing up. This is back room politics and a democracy, a real democracy, unworthy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u50	Mr. Minister, immunization is obviously the top priority. It is progressing well, but we are still far from a rate of 70 to 80 per cent of the population that would achieve collective immunity. I hope that every citizen who so wishes can be vaccinated before July. This is obviously a goal that governments must achieve: at least one dose of vaccine before July. For the past year, our freedoms have been reduced to grief. The virus continues to circulate a lot. The central question is how to find more freedom, faster, for everyone, waiting for a large vaccination. How can we accelerate the decoupling of risk activities? How can we speed up the process of reworking sectors such as Horeca, culture and events? How can we allow our young people to participate in a festival this summer? What other countries are doing, in particular through massive routine self-test testing combined with vaccination, and the example of coronapass, all this clearly gives excellent results by allowing a combination of health security and freedoms found much faster, including in high-risk activities. The tool of the coronapass is interesting. This track deserves to be explored, provided the tool is well designed, temporary, dedicated to certain activities, accessible to everyone. Vaccination, covid healing, negative tests should be considered in the same way. Also provided that screening tests are provided free of charge and made available. Minister, what is the position of the government, or even governments, and yours on the coronapass? Is work started in the administrations? Will the European coronapass, of which Belgium will be one of the pilot countries, be the same as the tool available to citizens for their activities? (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u51	Madam President, Minister, in mid-January, you stressed in Knack's weekly newspaper that a vaccination certificate should under no circumstances undermine the voluntary choice of citizens. However, this seems to happen precisely with the green certificate proposed by the European Parliament, a certificate that can be obtained if one has been vaccinated. We are not in favour of such a corona passport. It is not up to the European Union, it is up to the Member States themselves to assess the health situation and to allow travel. The chairman of your coalition partner MR, who is not here today, has also clearly opposed the vaccination passport. Yesterday, in the TV programme, Bouchez said the following: "For us, the rule is very clear: it is freedom for everyone or freedom for no one. We are not going to create two categories of people. This logic creates a precedent that is fundamentally dangerous." That is a clear position of a government party, but my question is whether that is the view of the whole government. It would not be correct, Minister, to introduce vaccination certificates before everyone had the chance to get a vaccine. In Belgium vaccinations started very late and not everyone is a friend, neighbor, family member or staff member of a self-service mayor. If that vaccination passport is introduced later, if everyone has had the opportunity to be vaccinated, is it still useful? Is this not contrary to the policy's ambition to go to group immunity with sufficient vaccinees, the pursuit of a time when collective protection can once again guarantee freedom? Is such a moment, when the conditions that you yourself have put forward are fulfilled, (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u52	Madam President, I think Mrs Fonck is really asking the right questions. As vaccination progresses, there is the question of what this means for our freedoms from a collective point of view, but also for the freedoms of individuals who have been vaccinated. This is an important question, about which I spoke little in public, for the simple reason that I asked for a thoughtful opinion at the Corona police station several weeks ago, by a working group of epidemiologists and virologists, but also people who think about the issue from an ethical and legal point of view. Nevertheless, I must say that I like the term "coronapass" that you used, and I will try to keep it in memory. I like this term because, as you pointed out, it will probably be a multidimensional instrument. Thus, it will concern not only vaccination, but also the question of whether you have passed a test that has turned out to be negative and whether you are cured of the disease. This multidimensional approach is extremely important. Since it is a multidimensional instrument, the issue becomes more complex but also more interesting. So, everyone can get tested, even people who, for some reason, have made the choice not to get vaccinated. The issue is therefore becoming more complex and interesting, and that is why I have asked for a thoughtful opinion from the Corona police station on this point. Mrs Pas, the European initiative is a very good initiative, just because we want to bring together precisely those three traces of vaccination, testing and immunity of persons who have been cured after they have been through the disease in one transparent instrument that is useful to everyone. It is intended that this instrument can be applied in a uniform manner in the European Union and the European Union assumes that Member States will grant their citizens access to it. However, the European Union will certainly not decide how we use it in our country. The European Union can create a framework for people who cross borders and go to a country where that investment exists. She can make sure that anyone can use that anywhere. It is up to the Member States to decide how they intend to use this instrument. If we want to use such an instrument in Belgium in our policies and in our lives, then we will have to design our own legislative framework after a very thorough debate. Allow me to repeat that I have said very little about this. I believe that it is my responsibility to seek, above all, a very thoughtful opinion, from a point of view of social justice and equality, as well as from the point of view of combating this epidemic. From the point of view of combating this epidemic and regaining our freedom, I would like to ask you to consider what we can achieve if people can prove that they have been tested negative, are immune after the disease has been cured or have been vaccinated. That may be interesting if we want to regain freedoms that we do not have in the current state of the epidemic. I would like to see an open debate on this subject, considered, taking into account all aspects of the matter, including social justice, the fight against the epidemic, the recovery of freedoms and the revival of economic, cultural and social life. That is how this issue needs to be looked at. We will undoubtedly engage in a European story for a similar instrument, but we will develop our own policies in it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u53	Minister, I think everyone aspires to regain freedoms. Everyone aspires to get out of the marasm that we are in today. We'll only get out of it if we're in solidarity because we're all in the same mess. Our freedoms today are being reduced to grief. While I am extremely attentive to health security, I believe that we must achieve this objective of restoring freedoms. I thank you because in the background, you dare to accept putting on the table a debate that goes beyond cartoons. To those who present the coronapass as a discriminant, I would like to say that they are mistaken. There is no discrimination as soon as everyone has access to activities at risk, whether immunized or not, by proof that covid is actually cured or by a negative test provided that it is free of charge. Minister, I want and hope that this will be the case, that we can open (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u54	Minister, you mentioned three elements: vaccines, testing and immunity. Firstly, in your question of justice, take with you the price of the tests for those who have not been vaccinated. I think it will be a very important element. The question is whether they will have to pay the full price every time. Secondly, immunity after illness is not being controlled today. So I wonder how that third element will be included in your analysis. Thirdly, it is not a question of granting privileges. This is about taking away freedoms. We have to be very careful about that. The freedom-limiting corona passport means a slippery plane. It will grant different rights to our citizens, and that will create exactly a division in our society. We do not want to divide into A and B citizens. That's why we don't want a corona passport.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u55	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, we know that this case of the Avrox masks is a really rotten case that you inherited. We already knew that these masks were dangerous, stuffed with nanoparticles of titanium in particular, that they had been delivered late, that they had been very expensive, that they had been obtained from a rather strange company, a mailbox company, a somewhat bogus company on the side of Luxembourg. We were assured, however, that it was a company that had a reference. She had already delivered masks to others, including a government. That is what Minister Goffin told us here in Parliament. Then it was repeated by your services at the beginning of the year, Madam Minister. They told us that there was a reference, a third-party government to which these masks had been delivered. They couldn't tell us which one because it was a secret. But an exchange of e-mails with the newspaper Het Laatste Nieuws attested to this delivery. Now we realize that, in fact, it's not true. We were also told that the Court of Auditors had verified this. We also realize that this is not true. The Court of Auditors has not verified the company's previous experience. We can see that masks may have been delivered to a company founded in Ibiza, based in Mauritius – a tax haven – called Bright Periods Consulting, whose boss is now in the wild. We don't know where he is. We see it a lot on Instagram in swimsuit on yachts. That's all we can see. Go and see, it's worth it! He proudly announces on his watch page: "Corporate transparency is a fundamental condition for a just society to protect our democracy." You had to dare! So it's a small company. We don't know exactly what she's doing. She's giving advice, but at least masks aren't really her business. Minister, what do you know about this case? Do you still have confidence in your department of purchasing that swept us away, that told us inaccurate things? I say it loud and clear. What people have lied to us? Who have been abused in all these institutions (the Defence, the Ministry of Economic Affairs, the Finance Inspectorate, the Court of Auditors)?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u56	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it goes without saying that Defence and I are following closely the development of this issue of oral masks. I will provide you with the procedural information as given to me when I asked myself about this case, as soon as I took up my duties last October. The Court of Auditors and the Council of State have always stipulated so far that the Defence applied the rules of its special specification in a rigorous and correct manner when the previous government launched this contract. As regards the grounds for exclusion, qualitative selection and administrative compliance, no non-compliance was found. Any undertaking submitting an offer to a public procurement contract is obliged, in accordance with the law, to submit certificates in order to prove its reliability. Avrox provided the documents and won the contract. A judicial investigation is now under way for a number of offences, including forgery and the use of forgery. As you know, this case is covered by the secrecy of the investigation. So I have very little to communicate to you. But I can tell you that the investigation is not aimed at the Defence and that my department is fully involved in the investigation by providing the requested information and documents. If it emerges from the investigation that evidence provided by Avrox is false or that offences have been committed and that this has harmed the Defence, I obviously reserve the right to act and to seek redress. You can count on me to do that! It is, however, too early to make a decision. In addition, I wish to let the instruction take its course in serenity. As far as the issue of danger is concerned, I can only remind you, as the Minister of Health did in February of this year, that the masks ordered met European regulations, but that their distribution was suspended on the recommendation of the Higher Council of Health, pending the results of a supplementary scientific study.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u57	Madam Minister, you are telling me that on the defence side, everything is fine! Everything is fine, Mrs. Marquise, when there is a judicial investigation! I'm sorry to tell you, we lied to you! When we said we had a reference with a third-party government, it was not true: it is a private company based in a tax haven, which does not take care of masks, which does advice and whose boss has disappeared. When it was said that the Court of Auditors had examined this case, it was not true. There is a judicial investigation, it is very good, but I would like our democratic institutions – Parliament – not to be abused, you not to be abused, the Court of Auditors to function properly, to be able to verify what has happened to the Finance Inspectorate. I ask that there be a committee of inquiry on this issue. We will table a proposal for a committee of inquiry because all these institutions are important for democracy. I don't forget that when we were trying to save human lives – at that time there were 200 to 300 dead a day! – there were crooks who took advantage of the fact that we were in an emergency to abuse the trust of Parliament, the government and our institutions to make money. I find this completely scandalous, unacceptable. I would ask for political clarification too, so we will be submitting a request for a committee of inquiry.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u58	Madam President, Minister, they don't respect anything, they don't work, they don't speak the language, they don't adapt, they don't do anything all day, of course it's bagarre. Those aren't my words, they're the words that were written by a brasserie operator in the problem area where the facts took place. What's going on in Brussels? Anyone who wears a uniform there was more or less a walking target for criminal immigrants. This week, we've come to another sad stage. Even a civilian policeman was attacked on his way home by a group of thirty immigrant amokmakers who used crutches to handle him with sticks, with baseball batts. The result is that the man is incompetent for seven days. Madam Secretary, that's no coincidence, because the man works in an anti-traffic patrol. These guys, these guys, they're very well known, they've been known for ten years. They've been in the sights of those anti-traffic patrols for ten years, but once they've been arrested, they'll be released by the parquet again and again. We are dealing with this sad situation in Brussels. I am getting angry about this, Madam Minister, because there is too little attention to it, because nothing is happening on the ground. Have you already consulted with the Chief of Police and the mayors involved to hear how they use the staff and resources on the ground, or not all the money goes to community police but also to law enforcement? Have you ever, and that is a good advice I give you, spoken with the people who really need to intervene on the ground? Have you already consulted with your colleague from the Justice Department to finally introduce this zero tolerance?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u59	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot, of course, tolerate evolving into a society in which brutal violence has the last word. Especially when such violence is directed against the police. The fact that a policeman was attacked in civilian service at the Jacques Franckplein in Sint-Gillis is downright reprehensible. The public space belongs to everyone and, like everyone else, the police, whether they are citizens or not, must be able to feel safe there. I will not tolerate any exceptions. I wish I could say I'm satisfied that it all worked out well on Monday. But if a policeman is beaten up with batting weapons and is incompetent for seven days, I can only be relieved that it hasn't gotten any worse. In any case, I wish the policeman in question a speedy recovery. The police deserve a great deal of support and respect at all times for the hard work they do, especially in these times. Each patrol is a stress test for them and in some places and in some circumstances more than that. That is why I take this opportunity to express my thanks and respect for the hard work the police are doing, both local and federal, giving them every day in, day out of the best of themselves to guarantee the safety of all of us. I can confirm, Mr Depoostere, that I have very regular consultations with the police forces, both local and federal, including with the President of the South Police Zone and with the mayors. It is poignant to note that the respect we express here is not shared by everyone. Running off against the police also means resisting the city, against the citizens who live with them and against the security we all guard. Recent events confirm my policy choice to focus on zero tolerance. That's why I call on the police and the justice system to track down, prosecute and severely punish the perpetrators. In any case, deliberate violence against the police must always be prosecuted and punished. I will continue to discuss this with my colleague, the Minister of Justice. I would also like to emphasise that we continue to work on several initiatives to improve the relationship between young people and the police. For we must not only act when violent acts occur, but first and foremost try to prevent them as much as possible. Let me be clear: youth gangs must never be allowed to go free and we will not accept so-called no-go zones. Respect comes from two sides and young people must also contribute to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u60	Madam Secretary, your answer is somewhat disappointing. This is not an isolated fact, the police services speak of four serious incidents that policemen have been victimized in the last three weeks. The perpetrators have been known, but no arrest has yet been made, they are walking the streets again. Yesterday I had contact with a colleague of the victim, who is also active in the anti-robbery brigade. They need to see their work re-evaluated, and that requires political courage. Not the mayor or the zoning chief should take care of that. You should do that. If you can raise a large police force in the Ter Kamerenbos to evacuate the park, I expect you to raise an equally large police force to clean up these problem areas in Brussels.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u61	Madam Secretary, after La Boum 1 there was La Boum 2 and, unfortunately, soon there will be La Boum 3, the third edition. Last week it was expected to turn into a real fiasco again. Relaxers hijacked the manifestation and lit the place up. We saw a lot of shocking images on the social media. Whether the display of power was adapted to the situation, as you were able to tell this morning, will have to show the investigation. Undoubtedly, mistakes have been made on both sides. In any case, the outcome was quite predictable, given the way you and your colleagues in Brussels handled it. It looked like you just woke up at the last minute. Everything was fast-tracked at the last minute. Tensions increased, more people would be present, there was a bid of measures and, above all, an absolute non-dialogue with the organizers was chosen. For me, that's bad management. Political responsibility is crushing. Couldn't it have been handled differently? Waiting again to respond to a few days before the third edition, which will come anyway, is not an option. No matter how many riders you will deploy, no matter how many dissuasive messages you will spread through the media, the manifestation will take place, anywhere or in any form. For this, the call for freedom of young people has become too great. Come up with an action plan, get the rioters out and lead such events in good jobs. From your communication in the media this morning and yesterday in the committee, I cannot tell which way you are going to go. Do you really want to talk to them, start a real constructive dialogue? Or do you change your shoulder and choose a repressive path, until perhaps the first death will fall? My question is brief. Do you choose the hard approach or the communication?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u62	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are seeing, fortunately, the way out of the crisis. We also know how to get to that way out. That exit will be phased out. In determining the stages, we have taken into account the demand of young people, among others, to meet each other. With the outdoor plan we launch on Saturday, we are taking an important step. In the meantime, we're looking forward. I am very confident that we will be able to look forward to new relaxations in the coming weeks as well. In order to make these facilitations possible, it is important that we comply with the rules in force. For this reason, Mrs Goethals, we have indeed made a call to the organisers prior to La Boum 2, but a dialogue was not possible with them. They have not made themselves available. You are asking for an action plan. That action plan was indeed there. People haven't waited until the last minute. The police had been preparing the action for many days with operative and preventive communication. I cannot agree with you that no timely action has been taken to guide the manifestation. However, incidents took place last Saturday, and that is reprehensible. Although a number of demonstrators may have wanted to argue peacefully, it is clear that the sanitary corona measures were not taken into account and that the subsequent violence against the police is totally unacceptable. Indeed, an application for a further demonstration was made on 29 May. There is little detail in that application, in addition to the announcement that it is possible to involve 1,000 participants. It goes without saying that events of this magnitude, without further conditions, are particularly difficult in the current epidemiological situation. I have always said, also at the beginning of this week, that we would like to explain to everyone who is committed with good intentions, bona fide efforts to enable events to be held in the existing framework. We have given the ministerial decision the opportunity to allow events outside for up to 50 people from Saturday. There is also the possibility to manifest. For those looking for scientific insights, we can organise test events. That offers perspective and that applies to anyone with good intentions. Of course, there is not much to negotiate about the conditions for events in accordance with the ministerial decision. That would also be unfair to the cultural sector, which is trying to comply with the conditions. For organisers who consciously place themselves outside the legal framework, there is no place.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u63	Madam President, Madam Minister, I do, of course, know the MB; I also know the contagion rates and I know that the pressure on hospitals is still very high today. However, at this time, when our rights are limited, there is still the right to argue. That fundamental right cannot be put in the fridge for 14 days. I note that events with other political messages have taken place in a different way. Take your political responsibility, along with Mr Vervoort, along with the mayors. Pick them up instead of shoving the blackbird to each other every time. To do politics is to talk and not to roll muscle balls with water cannons, matracks and tear gas. A truly open dialogue is a long-term work. So get on with it now. If you don't choose that route, I'm afraid I already know the outcome of La Boum 3.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u64	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u65	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 5 May 2021, you have received an amended agenda for today's meeting. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 5 May 2021, you have received an amended agenda for today's meeting. Is there any comment on this? Are there any comments on this? Accordingly, the agenda was adopted. The agenda has therefore been adopted. At the request of several of you to speed up the vote, a trial will be carried out to vote on the amendments in a grouped manner. Therefore, I ask you for indulgence if there was any difficulty with the test just now, at the time of the votes. In any case, we will try to make things more fluid.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u66	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u67	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, your committee discussed this draft law, which gave rise to urgency at the plenary session on 29 April 2021 at its meeting on 4 May 2021. In the introductory statement by Minister Frank Vandenbroucke, the following was said. The law of 22 December 2020 on medical devices will enter into force on 26 May 2021 together with the European Regulation 2017/745 on medical devices. These new European and national regulations also include an important part of clinical research. As was discussed in detail in this committee last year, the clinical investigation has been further developed. Before a clinical investigation is initiated, this should be the subject of an authorisation on the proposal of both the FAGG and an ethics committee, in accordance with the criteria laid down by law. It is foreseen that the ethics committees and the FAGG will operate completely independently of each other. The ethics committee responsible for each specific research will be appointed by a College of Clinical Trials set up within the FPS Public Health. When the current government took office, on 1 October 2020, this draft law, which led to the law of 22 December 2020, had already been submitted to the Chamber of Representatives for approval by Parliament. The Minister proposed to the Committee that this draft law be adopted as the Minister could endorse the content of the text and also with the aim of achieving a rapid publication in the Belgian Official Journal in this complex area. This publication took place on 18 January 2021. With such complex regulation, it was important for the legal certainty of the sectors concerned. However, one element remained to be identified, in particular the financing of the work of the FAGG, the ethics committees and the Clinical Trials College, with a view to analysing each application for prior approval of clinical trials. As in the past, the funding will now also be made through the payment of the fees. These are paid by the client to the FAGG, which will transfer the amounts intended for reimbursement to the College and the ethics committees. The amounts are fixed purely for the purpose of covering the costs incurred in the provision of services. As usual, the sector has been informed, the Minister said. There is an exception to this rule for non-commercial investigations. This is research with the non-lucrative sector as the client, such as universities and university hospitals. As already provided by the Law of 7 May 2004 on experiments on the human person, non-commercial clinical research remains exempt from fees. This research will be financed by the funds provided by the FAGG to finance its own activities. The FAGG will also in this case provide fees for the work of the College to the ethics committees and the FPS Health. The adoption of this draft law will result in a final piece of legislation which will ensure that the medical devices sector, including clinical research, will be monitored in all its aspects in a manner adapted to current requirements and requirements for a high level of protection. So much for the Minister's introductory statement. In the general discussion, Mr Kathleen Depoorter stated that she agreed in principle with the content of the draft law. However, there is yet another urgent need to transpose a regulation. Class III medical devices should apply from 26 May 2021. The regulation dates back to 2017. The speaker found it typical that important draft legislations are being chased by Parliament every time. Mr Devoter has reservations about the entry into force. The draft law allows for different interpretations. Is the Minister's timing satisfactory? The speaker refers to Article 111 of Regulation 2017/745 and concludes that the interpretation of the Minister is too restrictive and furthermore does not correspond to the interpretation of the European Commission. Is the three-month period between notification and entry into force guaranteed? Mr Depooster raised questions about the transparency of the amounts set out in the Annex. What are the criteria for determining these amounts? Have the parties concerned communicated their method of calculation? The speaker referred to the Council of State, which also made a number of comments. Is there a reasonable relationship between the cost or value of the service provided and the amount payable by the taxable person? The Council of State cannot assess this in the absence of the necessary factual insight in this matter. As far as commercial and non-commercial clinical research is concerned, to what extent is this well-defined? Are the definitions contained in the draft law satisfactory? The Minister stated that the bill was passed on to the sector. To what extent has the impact on research and development been passed on to the sector? Is the sector aware of prices? Was there a difference between prices in the different Member States? It specifies that it should be a cost recovery. Is it possible, then, for regions with higher staff costs to have a competitive handicap? Mr Depoorter continued that recital 88 of Regulation 2001/745 states that the Regulation does not affect the right of Member States to levy fees for activities at national level. For the sake of transparency, Member States should inform the Commission and other Member States before defining the structure and level of fees. In order to ensure transparency, the structure and level of fees should also be accessible to the public upon request. The honourable Member wondered why this should be done on request. Can this not be published on the website of the FPS Public Health or the FAGG in the context of transparency? Mr Creemers said that this was an urgent technical transposition. The distinction between commercial and non-commercial has not been expressed in substance in the context of the transposition of a regulation. However, when it comes to university research using industrially sponsored medicines, what about the distinction between commercial and non-commercial? For the speaker, this deserves a broader debate, which can be held later. Mrs Sneppe agreed with Mrs Depoorter's comment on the many urgent issues asked for draft legislation. The fact that once again a legislative text is being chased by Parliament makes her frown. The parties who call themselves democratic, and they call themselves democratic, regularly take a run at that democracy. Lately, that is even more the rule than the exception. Serious parliamentary debate is no longer possible, which worries the speaker. She asked whether it was perhaps the intention to make the rule of urgency rather than the exception. In substance, there was not much to be said about the draft law, the speaker merely wants to know how the exemption from fees is regulated if the line between commercial and non-commercial research is not really clear, as is the case, for example, with the creation of vaccines against COVID-19. Mrs Farih asked whether the FAGG could not levy the first fee until the day of the publication of the law in the Belgian Official Journal. Retroactive fees are not possible. Mrs Merckx supports the draft bill which is before us for discussion without comment. Mr De Caluwé read in the regulatory analysis that the financial impact of the draft law could be more severe for small and medium-sized enterprises. Why is this so? Does this mean that SMEs have to pay higher fees because non-commercial research is exempted from fees or is the cost of that exemption borne by the State? Mr De Caluwé also supported the question of cooperation between academia and industry. He points out that this cooperation between public institutions and entrepreneurs is one of the strengths of our country. What is the impact of the division between commercial and non-commercial research on this cooperation? Will such cooperation continue to be possible? Mrs Fonck would like to know whether consultations have taken place with the ethics committees and the College. What has been the outcome of this meeting? The speaker has for years argued for an exemption from the fees for non-commercial clinical research, particularly in university hospitals. The Minister now provides for an exemption for clients of the clinical investigation. Does the Minister also provide for an exemption for fees for the ethics committees and the College of Clinical Trials? Is there any provision for the fees or are they fixed? The law of 7 May 2004 on experiments on the human person also lays down a number of amounts. Is that also taken into account? The Minister states in the draft law that the College plays an important role in ensuring the independence of the ethics committees in relation to the FAGG. Can the Minister explain why there should be no direct contact between the ethics committees and the FAGG with regard to their funding? Those were the questions and comments of the committee members. Now comes the Minister's answer. The Minister explains why it was necessary to ask the urgency of the bill. As stated earlier, the law of 22 December 2020 on medical devices the draft of which was submitted by the previous government did not yet provide for the financing of the work of the FAGG, the ethics committees and the College of Clinical Trials. Complaints about timing should therefore be addressed to the previous government. The notification to the European Commission took place on 24 February 2021. The publication of the law is foreseen around 26 May 2021. This means that the three-month period between notification and promulgation will be respected. More information on how the government interprets this case can be found in the explanatory memorandum to Article 7 of the draft law. The Minister then discusses the question of the distinction between commercial and non-commercial research. He explains that it is not legally possible to conduct a mixed investigation. An investigation can only be commercial or non-commercial. In order to be considered as a non-commercial investigation, the investigation must comply with all necessary conditions. In a mixed study, all conditions for non-commercial research can be considered not to be met. Consequently, the fees imposed on commercial research are applicable. The sectors responsible for scientific research will be consulted in order to clarify the issue. However, what is legally regulated by the present bill is properly regulated and does not constitute an obstacle to cooperation between commercial and non-commercial players, according to the Minister. The Minister announced that the FAGG had consulted closely with the College of Clinical Trials and the ethics committees within a working group. That working group is still active today. An exemption will also be provided for payments to the ethics committees and the College. The FAGG will transfer the fees to the ethics committees and to the FPS Public Health. The amounts of the fees were communicated by the FAGG to the Transparency Committee and its cost coverage. This was discussed with industry representatives such as BeMedTech, MedTech Flanders, BE ON and Lifetech.brussels. In her reply, Mr Depoorter says that he has not heard an answer to her question about the competitive position of our country: to what extent do the amounts, which the Minister believes are cost-covering, run in the same way as the amounts in the other Member States? What does the Minister really mean by cost-covering? The Minister also did not respond to the suggestion to publish the amounts on the websites of the FPS Public Health and the FAGG. How can we guarantee that there will be transparent communication to the different institutions? The speaker also found it surprising that the Minister still had to discuss the distinction between commercial and non-commercial research. The Minister often refers to the previous government to explain certain acts. The current government has been on the move for some time now. The Minister believes that the question of our country's competitiveness should indeed be followed up when the regulation has entered into force. At the moment, he thinks that the amounts should not be very different from the amounts of fees in similar countries. The fact that there is still a need to discuss the cooperation between commercial and non-commercial players is not surprising: this issue has been going on for many years and will not be resolved in an instant. When the law is published, the amounts will also be published. For the Minister, it is no problem that the annexes to the bill are published on the website of the FAGG. Mr Fonck welcomes the fact that everything related to scientific research in university hospitals will be exempt from fees. The FAGG will transfer fees to the ethics committees and the College. However, the Minister did not specify the amount of the sums. Will these amounts come from the current amount of the FAGG or will an additional amount be committed to the FAGG? The Minister says that consultations have taken place, but is sufficient account taken of the reality on the ground? It is also regrettable that a law will be voted first and that cooperation between commercial and non-commercial actors will then be discussed. People in the sector will be confronted with unclear situations. The Minister makes too many top-down decisions that are difficult to implement on the ground. He should have taken a few more weeks to reach a clear agreement with the sector. However, the Minister states that the FAGG budget foresees that 30% of scientific research is non-commercial. Mr Depoorter has still not been reassured by the Minister's answers. It is concerned that the Minister will benchmark the competitiveness of our country after the law has been voted. The Minister has no aligned framework, he continues to refer to previous governments and will continue to consult later. He wants to rush the bill through Parliament quickly. The speaker's group believes that the draft law is not ready for vote and will therefore abstain. The Minister wishes to clarify that the consultations on the amounts of the fees started already in November 2019. It is therefore not possible to say that the work has been rushed, according to the Minister. Madam President, this draft law was adopted without amendment with 14 votes in favour and 3 abstentions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u68	Madam President, I would like to thank the rapporteur for the comprehensive report. I will try to explain why our group will abstain. We are still of the same opinion as we were two days ago. When I listen to the report, it is crystal clear to me: the draft law is not ready to be put to the vote. A government does not come to Parliament with a draft law if there is so much discussion and as many different interpretations as possible. It is pure negligence when it presents a very important issue such as the legislation on medical devices in this way, calling for the text to be approved and only afterwards checking whether everything is right and will talk to the sector. We do not agree with that at all. Besides, it is not the first time, as the report says, nor the last time, because in the Committee on Health it becomes a bad habit not to have full discussions, because suddenly, with urgency, we have to debate and vote on texts by the majority, the agenda of which is very often postponed. That's undemocratic. Our group has often said that corona is often used as an excuse to silence democracy. Here, too, that has happened. That there was no benchmarking, I keep finding an incredible blunder. What impact will the scheme have on our SMEs and on our research and development? Our country is such a large knowledge region and there are over 100,000 people working in the sector. It is our pride that so many scientists from our country contribute to the vaccine story and that so many vaccines are produced here, but we do not think it is important enough to screen the impact of this on our companies in terms of funding the ethics committees and the College and how we will relate to the other Member States. Cost-covering will be something different in our country than in other European countries. I have indeed underlined that the fees must be transparent. The Minister has partly responded to this, but I have not received an answer to my question as to how the various prices will finally be achieved. The Council of State also reiterates that it cannot conduct a factual investigation into the cost of the services actually provided. With regard to the commercial versus non-commercial provision, research, commercial and non-commercial, is increasingly being carried out in cooperation. Just before these partnerships, there is no answer. There is a legal framework, as the Minister has said, but there is still a need to discuss the way in which cooperation is applied and interpreted. We can already perfectly imagine the discussions between the FAGG and the private sector today. Who will pay what, how will the costs be distributed? I'm not at all comfortable with that. In my opinion, it's the world upside down. Under pressure of time, draft laws must be voted on quickly, but this pressure of time is created only by the inertia of the government and its delay in certain cases. That's not good governance, let alone good governance. As the rapporteur said, we agree with the spirit of the agreement, but it is not ready to put it to the vote. We will therefore abstain.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u69	Minister, discussions have already been held and there has been a positive element – that has been said. But I would like to insist because it is true that this has not always been obvious in recent years. This bill, which is essential to me, completely exempts the promoters of non-commercial clinical investigations from royalties and fees for all royalties and fees. In any case, I will make sure that this is the case because it is particularly important for our universities but also for our various hospitals. However, there are still concerns about your text with regard to all research that is of a mixed nature, i.e. often involving university hospitals and the industry sector. I confess to being disconcerted because you, at the beginning of the legislature, announced loud and clear that one of your brands would be concertation. This is not the first case, but it will be an after-effect consultation for this research, since there were discussions before, but nothing has been resolved. The blur remains intact. Consultation or a possible agreement could therefore only take place once the law has been passed, which is a problem for me. That is the main reason why we will abstain from this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u70	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u71	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1948/1) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1948/1) The bill has 7 articles. The draft law contains 7 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u72	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u73	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Marc Goblet, Caroline Taquin, Laurence Hennuy, Nathalie Muylle, Robby De Caluwé, Gitta Vanpeborgh, Barbara Creemers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u74	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u75	Madam President, this is an oral report. Since the written report is not yet available, I cannot refer it back. Ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to report here in a cross-sectional manner without quoting each Member. The bill tabled by the majority parties was discussed in committee on 27 and 28 April 2021 and 4 May 2021. It consists of a sustainability of the amounts of the White Blouse Fund which was created by the Act of 9 December 2019 and it also aims to clarify the allocation of these amounts. This fund should therefore be used to increase the net employment of caregivers and support functions. From 2021 onwards, the use of means will be used to increase the personnel standard to an additional full-time equivalent on average per unit of care or by hospital function. Other care and support personnel may be recruited to ensure that nurses focus on nursing. The Chief Nurse is removed from the current normative framework. The means of the fund can also be used in 2020 to finance various initiatives with the agreement of the social partners. The proposal perpetuates the allocation from 2020 onwards. Reference is made to full-time equivalent staff employed two years earlier. From 2021 onwards, the balance will be extended to medical homes and associations of nurses and/or independent doctors with funding from the budget of $48 million to improve the employment of self-employed nurses. From 2021 onwards, an amount of EUR 11.7 million is allocated to increase the employment of healthcare staff and the support functions integrated into the care teams in hospitals with which the pilot projects of sexual violence centres have concluded a contract. It is also foreseen that the balance, i.e. the amounts not used for 2020 and 2021, will be retained by the institutions in order to put in place, in the framework of a local consultation, ad hoc measures to strengthen the care provided at the bedside of the patient. The proposal also provides for an annual assessment of the number of caregivers and support staff and the consequences for supervision around the patient's bedside, per unit per hospital, in hospitals and in other sectors. The proposal provides that the law will be evaluated by 31 March 2023 at the latest, in consultation with the social partners. In our discussions, all members of the commission recognized the work done by nurses and nursing staff, and the need to support these caregivers. The adoption of structural measures is considered by all members to be positive. Members recognize that the bill is a step in the right direction in favour of nurses, but that other measures must be taken to improve their working conditions and the attractiveness of the profession. [[Questions and criticisms are expressed by some Members on the financing of this measure, on the too late nature of the evaluation in 2023, on the importance of consultation with all actors in the field, on the way in which the impact assessment of the bill will be carried out, on the fact that the proposal foresees that budgets can be used to hire nurses but also support functions – while the priority should be to strengthen nurses – on monitoring compliance with the law on allocation of resources, on the need for an evaluation of how the White Blouse Fund was broken down in 2019 and 2020, on the fact that part of the funds will be allocated to sexual violence centres and medical homes – while other budgets would have been needed to finance these centres and medical homes – and on the need to apply the growth standard to the fund.]] Various amendments have been tabled by several political groups. I will quote them in the order of the amendments tabled by each party. On the CDH side, we have tabled amendments to provide that the additional full-time equivalent should be a nurse first. We have tabled an amendment to set the date of the evaluation to 30 June 2022 rather than March 2023, and an amendment to provide that the White Blouse Fund amounts be subject to the health care growth standard. The amendments of the PTB were tabled, on the one hand, to provide for a semi-annual assessment of the number of caregivers and its consequences for supervision in hospitals and other sectors in the framework of social consultation and, on the other hand, to specify that specific local projects which can be implemented with the help of 2020 expenditure must focus on the net increase in employment and the improvement of the working conditions of healthcare workers. The N-VA has tabled three amendments to clarify that the allocation of resources from 2021 onwards must be carried out after close consultation with the federated entities and the health-care staff and that priority must be given to an increase in the number of health-care personnel; to allocate the resources via the BMF and not via the Maribel Social Fund and not to integrate the medical homes into the allocation of the funds; to provide for the date of the evaluation to 31 March 2022 instead of 31 March 2023. An amendment was tabled by the Vivaldi majority to clarify that the increase in the staff standard should preferably be for nurses. In the course of the discussions, the majority responded and I have no doubt that this discussion will still take place today. The majority gave details of the consultation, on the allocation of resources, on the calculation of the allocation of the envelope, on the fact that many hospitals have already sent evaluation reports to the Public Health FPS with regard to the breakdown of resources in 2020. The majority also indicated that with regard to the growth standard, this point should be clarified, in the terms used by the main author of this bill. With regard to votes, only the amendment by the Vivaldi majority was adopted. The bill was passed unanimously in committee. I'm sorry I didn't mention the words of every Member of Parliament. I have no doubt that everyone will want to repeat certain points if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u76	Madam President, I thank the reporter. I will go further into our amendments myself, but the overview was, as far as we are concerned, certainly correct. It really is a high day for me today and for our group, because we decide on EUR 400 million extra per year for nursing and caring staff. Hence the name of the fund created for this purpose, the fund of white blouses, the fund of white anger: the Health Care Staff Fund. I am pressing that because we have a major criticism. It was the intention of this fund, which, in the spirit of the initial 2019 proposal, would receive these funds, in the white sector, the care sector, the care staff. That was decided here in Parliament in 2019. The majority's legislative proposal before us today was supposed to regulate the use of these funds, once again for nursing and caring staff, in accordance with the name, but, unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, that did not happen in full. The text literally states that the funds can also be used to recruit support staff and can also be used for local initiatives. That is a real shame, because I have been preaching here for years, even in the previous legislature, how important it is to use the means of care wisely. Last time I put my finger on this, I said that we would only get rid of my greyened plate if better working conditions were finally provided for the care staff. Maybe that statement has speeded up the implementation of this piece of legislation, but unfortunately I have to pick up my gray-turned album again, because not all of the pieces are stuck. This is evident from the implementation. So I have to repeat it again. Our main concern is that all proposals to solve shortages in the healthcare sector will not be sufficient as long as they do not involve more caring hands on the patient's bed in the institutions and as long as there is no better remuneration for self-employed care. You really don't have to take that from me. I may be a suspicious source because I'm a nurse myself. But it has been shown in several studies that every euro invested in nursing staff is recouped for three fourths by better care. For example, by a shorter stay of the patient in the hospital or by a faster healing in the home situation. What has also been shown in studies is that the quality of care and also the well-being of the care provider are directly linked to the care framework and, in particular, to the use of care. I continue to press for this, and I also refer to the studies on the subject. The most recent one is a study referred to in the Committee, the 2019 KCE report, which clearly shows that the higher the workload of the care staff, the lower the quality of the care is. It's in writing. We are not talking about a market sector where the material end product may happen to be of lower quality. In this sector it is about human lives, it is literally a matter of life or death. For each additional patient who needs to take a nurse in a care department under her wing, the risk of unexpected and avoidable death increases by 7%, according to these studies. In addition, an extra patient who has to take a nurse in a care department under her wing also increases the chance that she will suffer from a burn-out by 23%. Hence my stickhorse that a shortage of care personnel will not be solved until more hands come to the bed. That's scientifically substantiated. It is also important that those who take these studies fully to heart will read that it is not any other kind of hands. Indeed, these studies clearly highlight and underline the importance of nursing staff and the right mix of care deployment. I quote literally from the KCE report: "Literature shows that support staff cannot replace nurses." These studies found in black and white a link between the number and nature of care staff. Hence our deep concern at the fact that the majority text states that the funds do not necessarily have to be spent on care staff, but may also be spent on support and local projects. We continue to find this problematic. We had therefore tabled our own amendment on this subject, just as other groups have done, and made a plea for it in committee. We want to ensure that these funds are actually allocated to care staff, as we intended when we allocated these funds with Parliament in 2019. There was also an open negative opinion from the nursing association, on which the committee first lied that it was fully involved and agreed, which is really reprehensible. The majority then tabled an amendment stating that some of the resources should preferably go to nursing staff. As far as we are concerned, this is a step in the right direction, but the provision that this can always be waived and that resources can still be used for support services and local initiatives has remained unchanged. The problem has therefore not been solved with this amendment. Since the amendment is an important concession and meets our criticism and that of the Association for Nursing, and for a part responds to our question as formulated in our own amendment, we have not asked for a second reading, taking into account the great urgency of the allocation of these resources, and we have given up our original question on this. Let us, in summary, be very clear and honest. In the light of the studies I have quoted, our preference in the context of the proposed amendment will continue to be based on a reservation of resources for care and nursing staff. Those studies literally state that the proposal is not sufficient. It is not enough for us either. We still seem and still seem to have the best way of retaining the resources for care and nursing staff. It bothers us that this reservation of resources has not been pinned down. I repeat that our criticism regarding the format of the text before us: it is and remains sloppy. I mentioned that I would come back to that; to this one. The text has been waiting for six months, while the care staff are at the mercy of the water. I've explained what happens when there's too much pressure on the premises today. We know that this increases the quality of care as well as the risk of avoidable death. The same applies to the risk of a burn-out among already scarce healthcare staff. Today, the average workload is high: one nurse for almost ten patients, which is below the standard and makes us dwindle at the bottom of the European platoon. So this is very urgent and the delay is laughable. The KCE report speaks of 'disturbing', 'bad' and 'unsafe'. So we really need to respond urgently to the needs. Moreover, the measurements in the report date back to before the corona period, which increased the workload for the care staff. In the home care sector too, of course, the increased workload applies and, above all, funding has been a difficult issue for many years, with various concerns, for which only a few euros are reimbursed. In short, it is very urgent for the sector to receive aid. The fact that more than half a year was delayed really makes the eyebrows frown, all the more so because the text before us contains a lot of loose ends. The reason for the delay was discussed in committee. The majority then stated that the social dialogue was at the root of this delay. However, the same social dialogue, for example the trade union, becomes responsible for the use of resources and for their evaluation. They have therefore delayed the legislative text by six months, although it is urgent. I've tried to outline exactly how urgent it is. At the same time, they now have the steering wheel for the use and evaluation of resources. Our concern, which does not seem to be unfounded, about what will happen if no agreement is again reached at the time of the award or evaluation, has not been answered until today. Maybe that answer will come today. We are pragmatic, so for us it remains the most important that the resources lead to a lower workload for the care staff; that is what they were meant for. Unfortunately, the legislative proposal is not convincing in that respect either. It's still sloppy. One of the loose ends is that the evaluation, as the rapporteur pointed out, is only foreseen for 2023. I have outlined how much the health care providers are talking about today, even more so today than yesterday. The law also leaves open that the resources are really reserved for care and go directly to nurse hands on bed. The steering wheel is also given to a partner who has delayed this text for six months. All of this, on top of the evaluation that would only take place in 2023, really does not inspire confidence. Our question and our proposal to advance the evaluation were thrown off the table. The same happened with our request to give nursing care a better voice in the allocation and follow-up of the funds which are intended for them. Unfortunately, the social partners, who were already responsible for a delay in this text, have been given the reins. So it is not inconceivable for us that they will not always reach an agreement quickly when the funds are being drawn up, even with the broad wording of the law and with the amendment. So the question is what will happen if an agreement is not reached soon, or if there is a negative assessment. All that remains unclear. It is clear, however, that years have since been lost and that care and nursing have remained in the cold because there has been no change of will. The law also states literally that the way in which the workload will be measured still needs to be determined. That is a second major flaw. Without agreeing on the method of measuring a reduction in working pressure, how can we be sure that this reduction is effective in the use of resources? The law also allows funding from these funds other than healthcare staff and local initiatives. That's still a big flaw for us. Colleagues, even the zero reading is not here today. We don't even know what workload per department and per institution we leave today. The figures from the KCE report I quoted are averages of studies that have been going on for several years. According to the Cabinet, the figures are still in full demand from the institutions. Until today, they have not yet been transferred to our question. There is no zero measurement at the time the funds are allocated. It will therefore be very difficult to monitor whether the funds have been used correctly and whether they are actually contributing to a reduction in the workload, which was their intention. Once again, anyone who had really taken the KCE study to heart could have found that it is very important to map out what is being measured. Specifically, if the resources were to go to a technical worker in a section X, what good would it be for a nurse in section Y? Hence the importance of monitoring Parliament's use of the correct measurement method and method of evaluation. The identification of what is meant by working pressure, how it is measured and what was taken as a starting point is very crucial, but unfortunately it is missing. Fourthly, the cabinet had it noted that the evaluation form is still in preparation. This too could not be delivered until today. We really should not think that such matters are quickly dealt with by the cabinet. We have had the unfortunate incident with compensation for care workers, which has still not been cleared up today. This government promised this in March and it only had to be settled by the cabinet, but until today, a piece in May, that has still not been settled. According to the Minister of Health, the Secretary of State for Budget, though member of the same government, would block this time and time again. The texts would not be sufficiently substantiated. After providing additional support, additional documents were requested. There would also be doubts about the amounts. I really don't know what to mean by that. Is the Secretary of State or is the Minister, or are both still together trying to figure out whether a year of corona has really led to additional expenditure on protective equipment for health care workers? I don't know. That seems obvious to us. I have made it very clear with the figures how urgent all these things are. At least I have the advice and the care sector with me, because the many questions we have asked on this matter are still pending and unanswered to date. Such matters, in which measures to the benefit of nursing are put on hold time and time again, and in which it remains in the case of policy on announcements, where it is not correctly or simply not worked out at all so that resources do not go to nursing, do not inspire confidence in the rapid and correct effect at the level of the cabinet. I'll sum up. What that delay of half a year has been exactly good for, with all the loose ends I have pointed out, remains unclear. In addition to the fact that the Secretary of State for the Budget and the Minister for Health do not seem to agree that nursing now urgently needs compensation for protective equipment, it is clear that for this 400 million bill to reduce the workload for nursing, there is no zero measurement from where we are leaving. There's no evaluation form. Although studies clearly highlight the importance of the use of care staff, this law leaves it up to the trade union to decide whether support staff or local projects may also be used. No methodology has been worked out to identify whether spending effectively leads to a lower workload. The evaluation is only foreseen for 2023. Our proposals could have been implemented more than six months ago and even shortly after the vote in 2019. First of all, we suggested that these resources should be retained for extra hands on the patient's bed, based on scientific studies, simply by increasing standards. This is the legal standard for the number of nurse hands on the patient's bed. Secondly, we proposed that the necessary funding, for which Parliament had already provided funds, be pumped directly into the healthcare institutions concerned. Thirdly, we also asked for an amount to be paid to raise the fees of the self-employed home nurses. Unfortunately, these proposals were voted down. So we had to be satisfied with the in-depth added passage that there was a preference for reserving the resources for nursing. We must rely on a zero measurement that is not there, on an evaluation that will only be carried out in 2023 and on the implementation by the trade union, which did six months on this text, which does not anchor the means to go to care and nursing and which is full of loose ends and unclearness. That is what we are being asked to do today. We also see that the majority have not been able to use the resources for home care where they are needed, particularly in the case of hard-working self-employed home nurses in the field. The cookie, or rather the cookie, to which the rapporteur has already referred, of less than EUR 50 million, which was reserved for this sector, must now suddenly be shared with all kinds of other sectors: district health centres, sexual violence centres and first-line practices. Do not our group misunderstand, these centres certainly deserve support, but do they have a budget designed to improve the workload in health care institutions and the remuneration for home nurses, far enough for that? Absolutely not. Our repeated questions about the impact of the extension of the target group, about the exact number of caregivers involved, what will remain for them in terms of structural improvement of fees and what is foreseen for them, did not come up with an answer. To sum up, after today's vote, we can only hope that the cabinet will quickly work on the further modalities, which are very important to ensure that resources go to more care staff, more hands on the patient's bed and a lower workload for care staff and nursing. We can only hope that social dialogue will take swift and correct decisions, in particular by choosing to use more nursing care, and that the resources will not go to the use of staff other than the care staff for which it was intended. We can only hope that the limited envelope for home care, which now has to be shared with all kinds of other sectors, will still be felt at the level of hard-working home nurses on the ground. In addition, we also hope that the Secretary of State for the Budget and the Minister for Health will quickly settle their disputes and thus unblock the funds promised to compensate for the protection equipment for home care, for which other sectors of care are also waiting. My colleagues Depoorter and Gijbels have also pointed this out in committee and have asked for it. We hope so, because, as has been said, the legislative proposal has unfortunately not provided the necessary guarantees for this, quite the contrary. But rest assured, we will continue to follow this closely in Parliament and, as always, continue to defend the voice of care and nursing with fire. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we are not voting with our wits today, which really cannot look away from the shortcomings of this legislative proposal. The legislative proposal does not respond to research-based criticism and is so sloppy and unfinished for such important resources for such a sector. Today we do with our hearts, which we let speak for the nursing and care staff, who are so eager for better working conditions and so eagerly long for the 400 million euros of resources per year, already foreseen in 2019. The N-VA is expressing its heart today and will vote in favour, despite the many shortcomings that I have tried to point out in committee as well as in the present day.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u77	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the health crisis we face every day reminds us that the professions of health and personal care are the pillars of our society. Most recently, pressure on intensive care beds has once again revealed the acute shortage of nurses in hospitals. The situation has been problematic for several years. It is the result of a gradual disinvestment in health care that has, in a way, denied the human needs necessary to run our health care system. Seven out of ten nurses are at risk of burn-out. Sickness absenteeism is 36% higher in the care sector than in other sectors. The working conditions of health workers have been even more difficult since the health crisis. He had to cope with an increase in the number of patients, at unbridled rates, and with delayed leave. We feel a little like we're getting to a breakup point. It is therefore urgent to make rapid progress in the practical implementation of this 402 million euro annual White Blouse Fund, which is sustainable, in order to structurally finance the strengthening of the nursing framework at the patient's bedside and to alleviate the patient's workload. This issue required a wide range of exchanges and consultations within and outside the working group, ultimately leading to a balanced agreement between the nursing sector in hospital and that of nurses at home and in a medical home, whether they were self-employed or wage-earners. I thank colleagues and all partners for this constructive work. I don't think it's that bad. I believe that we have been able to build a framework that is in line with the reality of the field and that partially addresses the shortage of nurses. The text makes the use of health-care aids and logistical aids possible, which ultimately allows health-care workers to devote more time to the patient. The proposed law also involves the implementation of the fund, which includes a series of benchmarks and evaluations to verify that the funds are being used well for additional employment. We have also sought to maintain some flexibility in order to meet the current difficulties of the state of employment and to stick to the needs that became even more acute during the crisis. While this bill represents an important step forward in improving the working conditions of nurses, we must not rely on our laurels. The White Blouse Fund is not the panacea, but should be seen as a strong link to a more comprehensive action plan for the nursing sector. Indeed, this fund cannot be activated if we fail to generate new vocations by making the profession attractive again. Similarly, we will not achieve our goals if we fail to retain staff because they feel well and valued. In terms of pay and working conditions, as well as recognition of the difficult nature of the profession, the concrete action plan for nurses requires investments that are essential to the preservation of our health care system. Work remains to be done to enforce the will and diligence of all actors. Of course, we are counting on them to move forward quickly. Because the pandemic has ended the care staff – both the patient's bedside teams and management – the priority now is to anticipate post-vaccination, this phase of decompression that could put the sector at risk in the coming months. Thank you for the work done.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u78	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, our healthcare staff deserves respect. We all agree. However, words must be translated into deeds. That is what we are doing today, doing strong deeds in this regard. The health crisis has shown us – and still shows us every day – how essential our healthcare staff is. Moreover, this crisis has exacerbated the difficult and unsustainable situation in the sector. However, this situation does not date back to the past, because it is not only the result of such terrible but short-term circumstances as the covid crisis; rather it is the result of a disinvestment in health care – in which, Mrs Van Camp, whether you wanted it or not, you participated at some point, on the contrary of the Socialist Party. I was surprised by your reaction today. I was afraid for a moment that you would not vote for the text just now, hearing that you were talking about a poorly lit text and seeing that you were asking many questions that had already been asked in committee. You may not have received the answers you wanted, but you still voted in favour in committee. I am reassured that you will still vote for today, if I am not mistaken. You will vote with heart, you say. Thank you! For our part, we act with reason, and we will also vote with heart and conviction. For several years, our healthcare staff has suffered from working conditions that are sometimes at the limit of the supportable. In fact, there are more and more patients, more and more complex care, and more and more infernal rates. The required flexibility is becoming more and more stringent. In committee, I have heard almost every one of you talk about the problem of the number of patients per nurse: eleven patients per nurse per 24 hours in Belgium, compared to an average of only nine at European level. This obviously has important effects, not only on the quality of care, on the health of patients, but also on the health of caregivers themselves. There is an increase in pressure at work, an increasing number of burn-outs and leaks to other occupations. I will add to all this the violence that health workers now face, in a growing way. Unacceptable violence, which is not without consequences on the motivation of these women and men. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the White Blouse Fund created in 2019 and the law passed in June 2020, allowing its implementation, have been important steps towards improving the working conditions of healthcare workers. Step by step, I repeat, before the crisis covid. But let's be clear too! This government is careful, Mrs Van Camp, to take important steps in the medical field. It takes full measure of the stakes and the need to upgrade the profession, which you also want. In this connection, I would remind you that it has perpetuated the social agreement concluded with a budget of EUR 600 million to increase the salaries of healthcare staff, improve the possibilities of reconciliation between private and professional life, and indirectly motivate future vocations so that we have enough nurses, tomorrow, at the bedside of patients. Indeed, no one will be able to deny – I will return to this point later – that there is a deficiency. The White Blouse Fund is €402 million allocated to relieve healthcare workers and to increase priority the number of nurses at bedside: €354 million to improve employment in the care sector, €48 million to strengthen home care. This budget must follow the standard of growth in the health care budget. Indeed, it would be incomprehensible if it were otherwise in view of the needs of the sector. This text is the result of concerted work, exchanges and teamwork. Marc Goblet, author of this text, convened a working group with the parties of the majority to sustain this fund and allow for the best possible allocation of resources from 2020 onwards. It was after a long process of consultation, particularly with the social partners, that he was able to table with other colleagues the bill that is on our bench today. Here I would like to thank all my colleagues for the constructive and positive work they have done with Marc Goblet to reach this long-awaited text. I would like to remind you once again that, apart from the traditional structures of social consultation, we have been keen to involve, from the outset of the work, the organisations representing the profession through their UGIB dome. As Marc Goblet mentioned in committee last week, concerned about the concerns encountered and communicated by the UGIB recently, he resumed direct contact with this association to alleviate as much as necessary their fears. It can therefore be said that the concertation was true, real and complete. I recall once again that the objective of this fund is clearly to increase the number of nurses present at the patient's bedside. That's the priority! Available budgets will have to be used to allow for the commitment of an additional full-time equivalent per unit of care or hospital function. In order to avoid any ambiguity, we tabled an amendment last Tuesday to clarify the matter: it should preferably be a nurse or an additional nurse in order to release the nurse or the head nurse from his duties at the patient's bedside so that he or she can devote himself or herself to those relating to the organisation of services, administrative tasks which are necessary for the smooth running of the work. But if it is true that it is "preferably" – whether you hear it or not, Mrs Van Camp – it is because no one can deny it: there is today a shortage of nurses in Belgium. This is not the result of the lack of funding from the White Blouse Fund or a lack of willingness on the part of hospitals to hire. This is the consequence of a reality. There are not enough nurses who are leaving school today and who are on the path to hospitals and hospital care. Hence the motivation that we want to give them through the 600 million euros of financing that I was talking about up front. It will take time to achieve this. We will have to create new vocations and, in the meantime, we are actually considering the possibility of hiring care and support staff to compensate for the workload, so that nurses who are already in hospitals can devote themselves entirely to the tasks assigned to them so that they can effectively assume their specific function and provide care at the bedside of patients. But not just how and not on any condition! I repeat: it will require prior agreement with local social consultation. It is this well-known social dialogue that will be at the heart of the decision-making process. The net increase in employment will be assessed annually at the level of the care institution concerned as part of this social consultation. So there's no margin. There's no room to do anything. There is a willingness first to subscribe to the commitment of nurses and, failing that, to support them with measures that will meet their expectations. It is a monitoring mechanism to achieve our goals of hiring nurses as a matter of priority. This assessment will clearly determine what jobs are in place and how they are deployed in the organization in order to have an objective view of the evolution of the jobs created under the White Blouse Fund – this is not a blank cheque – and the number of patients per nurse or caregiver. The minister will have to determine a number of specific ratios that will enable us to take full account of this development, because, as I repeat, the objective is unambiguously: to increase the number of nurses as a priority at the patient bedside and, if not, to increase the number of caregivers at the bedside of patients. I will not go back to the whole text. We have already referred to it extensively in committee, and we have worked on it for a long time. I will highlight three key points. First, from 2021 onwards, the distribution of the balance of resources will be extended to medical homes whose essential role is known not only for part of the population but also for self-employed nursing associations. Their funding will be provided by the €48 million budget to improve the employment of self-employed nurses. Secondly, part of the amount will continue to be allocated to increase the employment of health-care personnel and support functions integrated into the care teams in sexual violence centres. This is obviously essential given the importance of these centres to victims. Finally, the amounts not used for the years 2020 and 2021 will not be lost. They can be kept by health care facilities simply because the crisis we are experiencing will clearly not allow all available means to be allocated in the manner provided for by law. One-off measures financed from the unused amounts of 2020 and 2021 may be envisaged to strengthen patient bedside care. But again, no blank cheque, prior local consultation with the social partners. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today's proposal is the result of consultation between the co-signatories and consultation with the social partners. It is a well-recorded, well-thought-out text and we once again commend the work done. This text voted unanimously in the committee on Tuesday is an additional step towards improving the working conditions of healthcare workers. It's an important step, but it's not the last. Let's keep in mind that the work is not over. We will, of course, have to check the allocation of the resources made available by a regular evaluation of their use. We will soon have an analysis of the Health FPS based on reports from hospital institutions. Parliament will play its part, it will have to be involved in the evaluations, as will the social partners and representatives of the profession. The work will therefore have to continue. I know that we have always been constructive so far and I hope that we will continue to be constructive. I have no doubt that it is in this sense that we will move forward, in the interests of hospitals, in the interests of white coats, and therefore in the interests of patients. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to welcome and thank the craftsman of this text, who is not here today, our colleague and Comrade Marc Goblet. He has been able to demonstrate the determination and commitment that we have always known him. He was able to do so throughout the discussions to reach this unanimously voted text. If Marc cannot be present today, he will have been present at every moment with incredible intensity, at every stage of the discussions. I say "Low hat," Mr. Goblet, dear Marc, for your determination. Thank you all for your work and for your vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u79	Madam President, I would first like to thank Mrs Fonck for her very comprehensive and clear report. The bill recognises the need to further support the healthcare sector. Everyone in the hemisphere is now in agreement on this, but that was not really the case in 2019, or in so many words, colleagues. Time brings happy advice. Today we will hopefully see that this legislative proposal, as in committee, will be adopted unanimously. However, this does not alter the fact that we are formulating a number of critical comments. The intention of the original law, which fully supported the Flemish Interest, was to provide additional staff for care. More hands on the bed, as it's called. This proposal follows on from that. That is certainly a good thing. We are surprised that the extension of existing employment contracts will be taken into account as net job growth in the care sector. How this contributes to more hands on the bed is nevertheless a question that needs to be asked. There is also a question about the guarantee that the funds really go to more hands on the bed. In the original bill there was no guarantee that the funds would actually go to additional nursing staff and there is still no guarantee. Mrs Taquin's amendment is partly in line with this, but it is true that the inclusion of the words 'preferably for nursing staff' still does not provide any guarantee. So we can only hope or trust that "preferably" actually results in more hands on the bed. For the sake of fairness, we preferred to approve the amendment tabled by our colleagues in the N-VA, but it is what it is. As far as monitoring the use of resources is concerned, it is good that the social partners should give their approval to the use of resources. But the same social partners must also evaluate the use of resources afterwards. The social partners therefore play to some extent the right and the right. The question is to what extent a real control of the use of resources can be achieved. That is a question that needs to be asked. It may make the question of what is behind the door unnecessary if the use of resources is not really done correctly. After all, nothing is foreseen in the legislative proposal. Does it mean that the Flemish interest is against the involvement of the social partners or specifically of the trade unions in the use of the funds? No. I realize that the members of the hammer and sickle society explain this quite differently, but that mantra is now somewhat corny. It is now as predictable as the fact that the sun rises in the east. To quote the chairman of an unnamed party, I would simply like to respond to that nonsense by saying: 'Take that record off'. There is a heavenly difference between what we have said about this and what some in the hemisphere have heard. There are specializations in the medical world which can perfectly remedy such problems. The Flemish interest has no problem at all with the fact that the social partners are closely involved in the use of the funds. We do question the fact that the same social partners will be responsible for monitoring the use of resources. It's like a student having to evaluate his own exam. Trust is good, but real control seems a bit better to me. I will save you the part of my speech on the lack of figures and zero measurement. Mrs Van Camp has already explained in detail that the first evaluation is too far in the future and we can largely endorse it. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in retrospect, with the covid crisis in mind, we can say that the original legislative proposal came just in time. The need to support the healthcare sector was already there and it is still there. The present legislative proposal recognises this need and is at least a step in the right direction. The Flemish Interest will therefore approve it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u80	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today one in four nurses is not satisfied with her job. Only 46% of nurses interviewed by the KCE believe that the patient's safety is very good, while 37% consider that they were unable to monitor the patient properly at the time of their last visit. The working conditions of caregivers, especially nurses, are difficult to cope with on a daily basis. They were before the health crisis. Although the ratio of patients per nurse in our country is high compared to the European average of 11 nurses per 1 000 inhabitants – the fifth largest in the European Union – this does not prevent shortages. The lack of consideration, of means and of valorisation of the profession explains the low attractiveness and a fear often felt, even in cases of vocation. In order to further support this profession, the White Blouse Fund has been adopted. It was now necessary to maintain it and define the allocations of this €402 million. That is precisely the objective of this text, which has benefited from broad consultation with the professionals in the sector, which was coordinated by our colleague Marc Goblet – whom I welcome and whose absence I regret today, because he carried out with a master hand a work that brought together all colleagues around the same project. We still have a long way to go with him, but I wanted to greet him anyway. In order to dispel any ambiguity and temptation in some people to maintain an unhealthy blur, I would like to remind you that this fund must be used as a priority to increase the employment of nurses – this proposal is very clear. Moreover, we have further strengthened this will and demand during our work in committee, and in particular through an amendment adopted almost unanimously. It states that the portion of the resources allocated to the MDB to increase the personnel standard should focus primarily on nurses. Indeed, the purpose of this text is to make the best use of the means available, with a view to reducing the workload of nurses as a matter of priority. However, given the existing shortage at this level, it was also necessary to be able to act quickly in support. This is why the proposal allows for an increase in support staff and provides guidance if it is not possible to hire a nurse. The goal remains to increase the number of nurses to a full-time equivalent at the patient's bedside. In addition, there was a need for arrangements to be made for the distribution of the balance of the original budget. In this regard, the proposed law provides that, from 2021 onwards, the distribution of the balance shall be extended, inter alia, to medical homes and associations employing independent health-care workers. It should be recalled that the MR has requested this support from independent nurses to the tune of 48 million euros. Colleagues have heard us and we thank them. We also welcome the allocation of EUR 11.7 million to increase the employment of care workers and integrated support staff in sexual violence centres. We are aware of the importance of the work of these centres with victims. It was essential to be able to allocate this aid. We also know that the health crisis has not made it possible to allocate all the means initially provided for in the law for the years 2020 and 2021. Therefore, you see that this text allows one-off measures to be taken with this remaining balance; but of course, with the aim of strengthening patient bedside care. These measures will also have to be coordinated with the social partners. Another essential element of our proposal is the procedure for assessing the number of caregivers and support staff. It will have to be carried out in order to be able to assess the concrete effects on patient supervision in the hospital and non-hospital sector. Finally, the law provides for an evaluation of the law to be carried out by March 2023 at the latest. It's also important. This means, of course, that it can be done before that date, in consultation with the social partners. Colleagues, if we are convinced that this bill is in the right direction, we also know that it will take a great deal of effort and some time to regain the attractiveness of the nursing and nursing profession. It is imperative to continue this support and I therefore hope that we will be able to adopt this structural funding for the care teams in large measure. In conclusion, knowing that it takes four years to train an infirmer and an additional year to qualify for intensive care, it will take time. But it will certainly also be necessary to strengthen the means to improve the image and working conditions of employed and self-employed nurses. I confirm once again that we still have work to do.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u81	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Fonck, thank you for the oral report. I'm going to be brief because my voice is still having a hard time after a severe cold. First of all, I would like to thank my fellow Members for their cooperation, including Mr Goblet. We've been working intensely on this project for the last few weeks. That has led us to come up with a very nice bill. We have also done so in consultation with the sector. I have heard many times today say that the sector is simply the trade unions. However, ladies and gentlemen, we all know that during the intense consultation of the last few weeks we have had contact both with the employers, who are made up of various bodies on the Flemish and French-speaking side, and with the trade unions. We've been listening, we've been working together, and we've been trying to write a good story. Colleagues, what we are doing today is historic. I don't often take words like that in my mouth. Let's take a look at what we did last year. That's when we made a social agreement. Mr De Block is gone for a while now, but with those same people, with those same partners, with people involved in social dialogue and the social Maribel, we have reached an agreement of EUR 600 million. We have responded to questions that have rightly lived on the ground for a very long time. That was about terms of employment, about successive timetables, about night work and about overtime. All these issues have been addressed, but it was also about higher wages. I remember a man coming after me at the end of our press time and saying that he wanted to thank me for taking a lot of steps forward and not just for the IFIC. He said that there had been 20 years of demand on the premises for what we have done. I do not want to play a political game of this, because I know that all the parties in the hemisphere have been looking for solutions lately and have supported us in reaching those agreements so that resources for the care sector are released. What also came out of this agreement very clearly at the time is the discussion about the workload. We were able to solve the problem in part through last year's wage agreement, but there was also a very clear demand for more hands on the bed to provide patients with quality care. More hands on the bed, ladies and gentlemen, that lies before us today, in a structural way. I would like to thank everyone, across all party boundaries, for the fact that this has now been made possible. Some colleagues have said that perhaps a little progressive insight was needed in order to achieve a successful outcome, but the most important thing is what is on the table here: 600 million plus 400 million, i.e. EUR 1 billion in additional resources. We all want these resources to be used in a very efficient way. Several colleagues have referred to it, the corona crisis has not ceased to call for an effort on the part of many people working in healthcare today. The challenges are there, and I see a lot of people on the ground today who are starting to make an evaluation, looking forward to the organisation after corona, and wondering how we can organise ourselves better. In what way? How can we put those extra hands on the bed? They are looking at us for that, too, colleagues. The fact that it has been asked from various quarters not to ask for a second reading and to ensure that this proposal comes through Parliament very quickly this week shows that we are really waiting for these additional means to move forward, to increase the acceleration that one considers necessary for the quality of the job. We have had a lot of discussions on this in recent weeks. I can also hear some people here saying that they will do their best. No, ladies and gentlemen, it is quite clear in the text, and that was also clear in last year's wage negotiations, that we are taking primary nurses out of the funding standard as a priority. That standard is the B2 funding in the BFM. That's technical, and that's not the point. B2 is about nursing staff. Sometimes a discussion asked whether this is true for a handyman. But a handyman is in B6, not in B2 of the budget. So bringing it in isn't correct. The objective is a priority and I believe that Mr Taquin's amendment confirms that and removes the fear that some people had. Moreover, we have confirmed this by saying once again that we are going for more hands on the bed. Don't underestimate the fact that a primary nurse is taken out of a service with an average of one FTE. If intensive care on a service with 8 beds and 16 people, 1.6 FTE is added, that is 10 % more hands on the bed. That's not very small. What is being done will have an effect on the terrain. If there are any remaining resources, it should also be possible to invest in other tasks. The colleagues in the committee all know what lives on the ground. We know that in many institutions today there are still a lot of tasks, such as carrying out beds in hospitals, administering meals, carried out by nurses. These are important tasks, but they can be done equally well by healthcare professionals, people with different medical backgrounds. They can also do this in a very good, qualitative way. More support for these tasks also means that there will be more time to do nursing duties at the bed, which in turn should be able to strengthen the relationship between patient and nurse. I have faith in it, too. I understand the doubts. I and other colleagues have also asked about measuring instruments. What about the relationship between patient and nurse? Is there a zero reading? How can we measure that net increase? We've had conversations with the Cabinet about that. It has been said that the Public Health Office is in the process of doing so. So I am also confident that these parameters will be introduced. However, that evaluation will be important. That evaluation is also our role. It has grown from Parliament and I therefore believe that we should play our part in the evaluation together with what is happening on the ground. I am also happy that after sexual violence the care centers receive additional resources, 11 million. Over the past year, I have made a great deal of efforts to find structural resources for this purpose, to ensure that these centres are structurally anchored. The fact that these centres will now be given extra hands is very important. This is about hospital services, services linked to the urgency of a hospital where nurses are used to provide such valuable multidisciplinary care. I don't see why those extra hands over there could be a problem. Mr Creyelman regrets that existing employment contracts are included and can become structural, but I do not think that this is so illogical. After all, the trend is very high today and there are many temporary, part-time and shorter contracts in many services. People often work on different services at the same time and it is important to be able to make this scheme structural and offer people permanent employment, not part-time and for more hours. However, it will be a challenge to find additional people. In the coming years, many people in health care will also retire. So it will be a challenge to bring young people to this oh so beautiful profession. I am a great supporter of the various steps of the learning ladder of care, with caregivers, caregivers, HBO5 nurses, bachelors and also, Mrs Van Camp, masters in nursing. Last year I was very much involved in developing the status of the nurse specialist. That is what we must be committed to. There is a very wide range and we need every step of the ladder. For me, every step of that ladder is equal. It will be a challenge to get extra hands on the bed, but that must be seen in conjunction with the social agreement we concluded last year. I find it incredibly important that, thanks to the 402 million that we are structuralally allocating today, extra hands should be added to the patient's bed. Despite the many comments which give me some doubts as to whether the proposal will be adopted unanimously, I hope that this will happen because the concern needs it and is counting on us.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u82	Dear colleagues, dear friends, what progress has been made, what progress has been made since the tabling of the amendment of the PTB on 24 October 2019! It was long before the covid-19. It was before the covid-19, but the hospital staff was at the end of the austerity policy – among other things – carried out by the Swedish coalition. When I hear some talk about it here today, it looks like it never existed. The staff were at the end of their lives because of the 900 million euros of savings achieved. In July, we tabled our amendment for the first time, in support of the White Blouses. In October, however, big union action, big mobilization across the country, and yes, the amendment of the PTB passes! The White Blouse Fund was born. And on that day, the House here was too small, too small so the names of birds and insults were flying. However, one thing is clear: the coming of the PTB since the 2019 elections, with its twelve deputies, was going to change something in Parliament. This coming would strengthen the struggle as well as the left. Today, I heard a lot of thanks. Personally, my first thanks go, of course, to the staff who, in the field, have mobilized with their trade union organisations. Because if today this funding is sustainable, it is thanks to its actions. If today this funding, the EUR 400 million of the White Blouse Fund, but also the EUR 600 million to raise wages and improve working conditions, was acquired during and after the health crisis, if this funding is concrete in the government agreement, it is an achievement of the workers' struggle. Like every victory, it is ripped off by the millimetre, because we organize ourselves concretely on the ground and get in motion. I think it's important to remind him today. I would first like to highlight some positive aspects about the practical implementation and use of the Health Care Staff Fund. First of all, it is a good thing that from now on the district health centres can also count on the fund. After all, in the area of district health centres, the workload is increasing every day, especially as a result of the corona crisis. It was therefore not normal that they had not been included in the scheme for the past two years. Secondly, it is also stipulated that the money that is not being spent can be retained if there is no agreement. Thirdly, the chief nurse is removed from the standard. With the fund we inject money into hospital funding and into the BFM. Hospital funding is a difficult issue, not only because many hospitals are in the red, but also because it concerns a lot of money flows, which are not always transparent. There has been a lot of discussion for a long time, because we have to ensure that the funds are properly spent. We therefore very much regret that the idea of the Maribel Fund has been deviated from. After all, the Maribel Fund has just been created to create additional jobs. In addition, the involvement of the trade unions is guaranteed and their management is joint. Even though the current funding through the BFM must have a social agreement in every hospital, which is really important to us, the use of resources depends on the balance of power on the ground. It is precisely through proper use of resources and monitoring that jobs are created and working conditions improved. The discussion about this has delayed and not delayed the trade unions, because they kept arguing because they wanted to be sure that the money would not be spent on things for which it does not serve. I find it strange that the Flemish interest should be passed on to the trade unions, although that party has already somewhat reduced its tone, and that the N-VA is also doing trade union basing here. The money would never have been released if the trade unions had not organized the action on the ground. So if we can thank someone for the release of funds, then that is precisely the trade unions, who are also watching today for the money to be well spent. Nevertheless, we still have some doubts as to whether the money will indeed be well spent. As I have already explained, this depends on the strength relationships in each hospital and the opportunities for the trade unions there to control the use of money. That is why today we are tabling an amendment aimed at presenting an annual report to Parliament with a quantitative balance of job creation and an evaluation of social dialogue. We also support Mrs Fonck's amendment aimed at applying the growth standard for health care to the fund, which is of course also very important. I would also like to mention another point that is linked to this, namely the supposed shortage of qualified staff. Actually, there is no shortage of qualified personnel in our country. Today, 75,000 nurses work in hospitals and 49 000 elsewhere in health care. But no less than 19,000 nurses have left the sector because they can no longer handle the profession they had chosen and wanted to practice with heart and soul. It is therefore important to make the profession more attractive. We are talking about wage increases, which are normally included in the IFIC agreements, but also about, for example, recognition as a heavy occupation. Today nurses have to work for up to 67 years. How do you sell it? Finally, there is a need for a revision of the framework standards, which goes beyond the removal of primary nurses for the purpose of setting standards. These standards date from years ago, while patients are now sicker and going home faster; therefore, more staff is needed. I'll come to my decision. The health care staff and the trade unions representing them will also be able to count on the PVDA in the coming years to promote human-size care, workable work in the care sector and quality for the patient. We, too, will vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u83	Madam President, Mrs Merckx, I know that the acoustics in this Chamber are not always the same as they should be and that there have been problems with Zoom this week, which has not always been easily understood, but I have explained nothing here but what I have said in committee. Once again, we are not opposed to the involvement of the social partners in the use of these funds, but we have reservations about the fact that the people who spend the funds must evaluate themselves. If you are, after all, shining your hat and bashing the Flemish interest, then I would remind you once again of how your amendment got through. I looked up the numbers. I would like to appeal to your arithmetical abilities, and I am counting on them to be excellent. In the vote on your amendment, 135 Members of Parliament took part in the celebration of democracy. Our friends from CDH and Défi have abstained, together good for 6 votes. This means that a majority of 129 Members had to vote in favour of 65 Members in order to get it through. That worked, because 76 Members voted in favour and 53 against. Suppose those 18 maleized Flemish Interesters would have voted against, what would have happened? Madam President, don't panic, I won't ask you to do the math. Suddenly 76 votes in favour would have been 58 and the 53 votes against would have been 71. In which parallel universe is 71 less than 58? Somebody's gotta explain that to me. The only logical conclusion is that this amendment, which is your merit, which I do not deny and never denied, would have been rejected. Even if the abstentions of Défi and cdH had turned into a vote in favour, the amendment would not have made it. I don't want to put plumes that aren't ours on our hat, but a little intellectual honesty wouldn't hurt. At least listen to what I am saying and not to what you think I said both here and in committee. I am not weakening anything at all, I am simply repeating with all my repetitions I am beginning to resemble the VRT what I have said and I am making that very clear. I know that the Flemish interest must be bashed occasionally for ideological reasons, but it must not be too ridiculous.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u84	Madam President, while things are being straightened out, I would also like to make a brief point. PVDA insinuates that the Swedish Government would be responsible for a shortage of care staff, but I do not know where she is getting that. We have never reduced standards or funding for care workers. In fact, the Minister of that government at the time is here. The saving to which reference was made concerns issues such as the reduction of the price of medicines, which has benefited patients. I also mention the use of the right scanner, which also benefited patients. The insinuation that the Swedish Government would be responsible for reducing the number of hands on bed is fundamentally incorrect. If the speaker of PVDA stays with her thesis, then I ask that the exact texts be brought out so that she can support her statements. I don't think she'll find those lyrics. Her statements are therefore absolutely incorrect.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u85	Madam President, allow me to reply briefly. Mr Creyelman, the anti-Syndical side of the Flemish interest has been known to me for a very long time. Every once in a while, it comes up again. That's all I wanted to prove. Of course, you're trying to hide that. I do not see the problem when the unions are judge and party. The trade unions defend the workers and I take the defence of the trade unions into account. Mrs Van Camp, do you think the Swedish Government has not saved? Honestly, I don't think I should pull out any lines. I suggest that you yourself ask the staff in the care sector about how they have experienced the years of the Swedish Government, and indeed the years before, about savings and a deterioration in their working conditions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u86	Thank you, Mrs Van Camp, for taking up the defence of the former Minister of Health. Then I shouldn't and I can be shorter. We too do not deny the need for more hands on the bed. That is an important merit of this bill. I would like to thank Mr Goblet for the initiative he has taken and for the constructive way in which he has led the debates and discussions. There are a few important points for us. Firstly, that is a good use of the money. I am pleased that Mrs Merckx has also come to a moving conclusion in this area. I would like to remind you of the amendment of 24 October 2019. I just looked at that again and, let's face it, that wasn't a textbook example. There's been a lot of scratching on that. First there was an amount of EUR 166,7 million, which then changed to EUR 67 million. I don't know why, but I do note that some things have been forgotten to change. What was the purpose of that amendment, ladies and gentlemen? That was to recruit 20,000 nurses with 67 million euros for two months. I don't know what bets they're gonna give those nurses, and you're gonna have to find them one week. Mr Creyelman, I am surprised to hear you say that the present legislative proposal lacks figures, but at the time you enthusiastically approved that amendment, even though every plan was missing. Apparently, that wasn't a problem at the time. There are three important issues for us. First of all, we need more hands on the bed. We currently have one nurse per eleven patients per day in Belgium, whereas in Europe it is one per nine patients. A second important item is that we have opted for an average increase per service of a FTE in terms of staff standards and that we do not speak of one per service effectively. Why is that important? Because some services may be less in need of an increase, while others are more in need. We must use the resources where the needs are greatest. The third point, and certainly not the least important, is the annual evaluation. The objective is more hands on the bed, so we have to follow it up. The resources deployed should effectively improve the nurse-to-patient ratio and the carer-to-patient ratio. So we really need to put more hands on the bed on the one hand for more quality health care and, on the other hand, no less important, an improvement in the well-being of the care staff. For this reason, we will fully support this proposal with our heart, but also with the ratio.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u87	Madam President, I would just like to comment on Mr de Caluwe's accusation that the amendment did not look like anything. Let me explain clearly how that was done. Indeed, it initially provided EUR 167 million, because we had calculated in our election programme that EUR 1 billion was needed to improve the situation in healthcare. In the current coalition agreement, the two agreements, the IFIC agreement and the White House fund, together amount to EUR 1 billion. You know you have to forge the iron when it's hot. We must therefore also be able to make compromises, and that is what we did on that day. To get the support of our left-wing colleagues, we have changed that. For example, the amendment was amended during the plenary session. I'm very proud of that. You should know that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u88	Madam President, I would also like to thank Mrs Fonck for the oral report, which is not always self-evident. My group, Mr Vooruit, is, of course, particularly pleased that we are voting on this bill in plenary. Hopefully the proposal will be adopted unanimously here too. Mrs Van Camp, I must say that I am very disappointed with your introduction. You're wearing a red dress. I therefore thought that you would make a good speech, one to our hearts, but there were some hooks and eyes that were difficult for us. From day one, you have been here as the great defender of the care staff and as an advocate of urgency. However, it was your party who asked for the second reading in the Committee on Health. You knew, however, that this would lead to a de facto delay. So it wasn't that urgent for you. However, I should like to say that I am quite honest that you subsequently decided to abandon that second reading. I thought this was happening on the basis of preliminary insight, but that doesn't really seem to be where I expected it to be. In any case, it is important that we can approve this today, not only for the care sector, which absolutely needs this support, but also for those entitled to care. After all, we must not forget the latter too. You said that this has taken six months, and that is also what I have been discussing in the Committee on Health. I have said that waiting for a legislative proposal is not a bad sign, because it is actually the result of consultation, dialogue and input from various actors in the field. The social partners are also involved, not only the trade unions but also the employers. So it has become a supported proposal, that is how we look at it. I would just like to comment on the five elements which are essential to us in the proposal, the reasons why we will of course also approve it. Firstly, there is the structural annual allocation of more than EUR 400 million. These resources provide security and perspective for the future of care staff, but also for those in need of care and for our health care, which we should be proud of. These are financial resources that, in our view, are more necessary and justified than ever before. In addition to the financial scope for these additional recruitments, 10% of these funds are reserved for training and training. That is crucial, and that is what I said to the committee. That is very good about this proposal. Mrs Van Camp, as a member of a Flemish nationalist party, you must know the Flemish care landscape very well. You will also know that nurse is a bottleneck profession. This reflects the importance of training and training. This will also give us new influx of healthcare professionals. There's a need for that. You already referred to the inclusion of neighbourhood health centres, health care centres following sexual violence and medical homes. A number of Members were somewhat condescending about this in the Committee on Health and Equal Opportunities, but I would like to defend that inclusion. The figure they represent as a whole is very relative. I went to a district health center last week. The water is on their lips, too. In addition, they can also relieve the burden of hospital care. They form one whole. It's important that we take that with us. The fact that the resources can also be used, if necessary, for the recruitment or deployment of support staff so that nursing staff can effectively focus on their care tasks is also important, just in the Flemish care landscape that you know so well. I talk a lot to people who work in that sector. There's a problem with influx. People need training and guidance, but there is also a problem with working conditions. It can also effectively help to provide additional support. Mrs Muylle has also said that this is not about handymen, but about support where necessary. That'll keep people on board, too. That's important, too. The final essential point for us in the legislative proposal is the importance and role assigned to local social dialogue. It's about unions, but it's also about employers. These are two key actors in this. In our view, they are best placed to assess the needs of the health care institutions, what should be the purpose of the funds and to monitor and adjust the objectives set out. A number of members of the opposition were worried, and I am also looking at the colleague of the Flemish Interest on possible blocking of the consultation. Experience teaches me that I am allowed to speak from experience, because I have followed the social dialogue for 26 years and that the fear of blocking is unfounded, when a legislative proposal is put forward as policy-makers we also have a responsibility in relation to the labour market in dialogue with the social partners and that proposal supports their vision. Take it from me. I am convinced that through their involvement in the creation, which has brought about something effectively, they will play an important and constructive role in the allocation of funds, which is not only the fault of the trade unions, but of all the actors involved. Finally, I would like to thank someone who cannot be present today, but who has put his shoulders under the proposal, Marc Goblet. He's managed everything. He also sought to answer all the questions and legitimate concerns raised by Members. They were also incorporated into the bill. I'm looking at the other side again for my lock. We too are going to vote today with our hearts, but also with our minds, with confidence in our minister's cabinet and, above all, with confidence in the social partners who will have to roll out the law on the ground in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u89	Madam President, I would like to join in thanking the various colleagues who have carried this text from the beginning and, more particularly here, Marc Goblet, even if he is not here today. Above all, I want to say a little word. It's almost May 12. I don't know if you know what's going on that day. It's International Nurses Day. This is an opportunity to recall that their commitment does not date from the covid. He's been a major forever. In addition, their workload is not recent. On the other hand, they are at the front and have been particularly affected by the covid, like many other caregivers. This 12 May 2021 will surely be a special international day for all nurses in Belgium or elsewhere. Madam President, many things have been said and repeated by the various speakers before me. So I am not going to talk about the text again. I would just like to say how important it is for us to give this law the priority of the additional commitment of nurses. This was not included in your original text. From the beginning, I was struck by your choice. With the UGIB, we managed to move the lines. Good! In my eyes, it was something of the utmost importance. I therefore welcome the fact that we have been able to change the text on this point. But this will not be enough and it will really be necessary to work on the issue of attractiveness throughout the career of nursing professions – nurses and caregivers – to attract more young people to schools. I would add that many of the nurses with a visa no longer work in the care sector. By doing so, working on career-wide attractiveness would keep nurses in the care sector rather than leaving this sector to work in other areas. This is obviously an issue in terms of workload which is particularly heavy, but also in terms of the quality of care, the increase in the quality of care for patients – as has been widely demonstrated in various studies – and the reduction in morbidity and mortality of patients, thanks to a greater nursing supervision. With the choices you have made, dear colleagues from La Vivaldi, through the bill under consideration, we must recognize – we must call a cat a cat – that the White Blouse Fund is amputated with a part of its budget that is reallocated differently. In particular, there is a small decrease in the envelope of self-employed nurses at home. There is also a decrease in the hospital envelope. I am thinking here of reassignment to sexual violence centres, which should be reinforced. If you had decided to preserve the White Blouse Fund, the logic would have been that the budget would have been increased accordingly. Another point that concerns me is that of the standard of growth that I believe should apply to the whole budget of the White Blouse Fund. However, if I consider Subpart B2, there is no question of the 402 million that are on the table. It is therefore wrong to say that there will be an application of the growth standard throughout the White Blouse Fund. This application will only be made on part of this fund. That is why I am resubmitting my amendment today, which aims at putting things into practice. In fact, the least we can say is that there is still a vagueness in the statements, in the attempts to explain the majority. The blur remains intact. If you want to apply the growth standard to the entire White Blouse Fund, then we will have to vote on the amendment that I am proposing. I thought the Minister of Health would be here. He's not here. The majority will say I'm rabid. But let me make myself again here the voice of the nurses in the face of the promises you have announced, but still not fulfilled. The covid bonus for home nurses is still not awarded; I find it to be indecent. All your speeches saying that nurses must be strengthened are beautiful, but when promises are made, they must be respected! The same applies to intervention in the costs of specific protection measures covid and protective equipment. The second component should have been paid by March 31. Today is 6 May, and the payment has not yet taken place. Here, too, I find that it goes beyond understanding. This represents, for some nurses, budgets of several thousand euros, not paid and to which they are entitled. On this point, ladies and gentlemen, I hope that, on the part of the majority, and in particular of Minister Vandenbroucke, we will finally stop calling for bad excuses for not respecting the promises. I will point out a point of attention for the future, although, by choice, I have decided not to table it in the form of an amendment. It would be interesting to give regular feedback, in particular to hospitals, on their position in terms of supervisory standards, including in terms of nursing standards, in relation to the Belgian average, but also in relation to the international average. This would allow each hospital to position itself and adapt recruitment accordingly. This is an important issue for nurses. That being said, despite these few missed opportunities, we will support this bill. I will be very careful in the future to apply it in the form, including an increase in the budget, in relation to the standard of health care growth.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u90	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as has been said, the health crisis has exacerbated the truly unworthy working conditions of healthcare workers. This is a unanimous observation of our special committee covid. Caregivers are understaffed and our hospitals lack arms. This finding brings with it others: burn-outs, depressions, demotivation, the abandonment of education and the profession, both chosen with passion. The absenteeism and ill-being of nurses added to their shortage in the field. As we know, the upgrading of this profession must inevitably involve an increase in the financial resources devoted to the sector, a revalorisation which must take place not only to recognise the immense work done for the benefit of the community but also to overcome the shortage of nurses, one of the main causes of which is precisely the lack of recognition of the profession. It is recalled that already in 2014, a large European study published in the prestigious journal The Lancet showed that by increasing the number of nurses at bedside by 10%, mortality in patients under 50 years of age decreased by 7%. We also remember the calls from many organizations such as KCE at the national level or WHO at the international level for our country to truly invest in the nursing profession. The law of 9 December 2019 establishing a White Blouse Fund had the ambition to finally respond to these calls, a law that should now be updated, perpetuated and clarified, especially after more than a year of health crisis. I would like to thank colleagues and in particular Mr Goblet for the demanding work that will enable the home care sector, medical homes and sexual violence centres to benefit from this fund. However, our group would like to return to two aspects, in particular, of this bill. First, under Article 7 of the text, it is foreseen that by 31 March 2023 at the latest, the way in which resources have been allocated, the jobs created and the way in which social consultation has taken place will be evaluated in consultation with the social partners. In other words, ladies and gentlemen, we should therefore wait almost two years before we know precisely how the resources allocated are used, but also and above all whether these resources are sufficient or not, whether they need to be adapted or corrected. I welcome the amendment tabled by Mrs Fonck in committee and re-tabled today in plenary. This is an amendment that would shorten the evaluation deadline by one year. We will support this amendment as it is in the direction of an optimal assessment of the resources available to an entire sector. Furthermore, with regard to the updating of this fund, it would have been logical to link the standard of health care growth to the amounts provided for in the White Blouse Fund. Nevertheless, our group has strongly supported the establishment of the White Blouse Fund because there are truths that deserve to be restored, especially when they are distorted by the far right. Yes! We abstained in the vote on the "surprise" amendment of the PTB at the end of 2019, our message being that nurses deserved their upgrading through a real budget, a thoughtful budget with means we knew where they came from. We were convinced that that was what would have allowed nurses to say, "You are important to this country." On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, you will see, by rereading the report of our plenary session of 18 June 2020, that DéFI has indeed voted in favour of the proposal for a law that will perpetuate the White Blouse Fund and affect these means for the year 2020. That is why, even though we regret that amendments which had their place in this text have not been accepted simply because they were tabled by the opposition, we will support this text, like any other parliamentary or governmental initiative which would make it possible to improve the working conditions of healthcare workers in a concrete way and to strengthen the attractiveness of a profession which is now worn out, tired and to which we owe so much.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u91	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u92	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1911/7) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1911/7) The bill has 8 articles. The bill has 8 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u93	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved article as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled, the Rule that has been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u94	Proposals submitted by: Proposals tabled by: - 1861: Karin Jiroflée, Patrick Prévot, Caroline Taquin, Laurence H annoyance, Nawal Farih, Robby De Caluwé, Barbara Creemers - 1596: Catherine Fonck, Maxime Prévot, Vanessa Matz, Josy Arens, Georges Dallemagne - 1728: Sophie Rohonyi, François De Smet.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u95	The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1861/5) The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1861/5) The discussion is open. The meeting's open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u96	Madam President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u97	Madam President, I also refer to the written report. I would like to thank the chairman of the Committee on Health, Thierry Warmoes, who ensured that this motion for a resolution was able to pass quickly and that patients were able to speak at the hearings.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u98	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this motion for a resolution deals with patients affected by long-term effects following an acute phase of COVID-19. This is not just a problem for those involved, but for society as a whole. The problem is also difficult to solve, because so little is known about it. We do not yet understand the acute phase of COVID-19 and in too many cases we are still quite powerless about it and, if possible, we are even more in the dark about the long-term symptoms after COVID-19. Complaints may vary considerably and may or may not be accompanied by demonstrable organ damage. The mental impact should not be underestimated either. That too must be given due attention. During the hearings, we heard a number of compelling testimonies; everyone agreed on that. Experience experts asked in particular about the recognition that after the acute phase COOVID-19 could also give long-term complaints. They also felt that a broader communication on this new reality was needed, both to the population and to the care providers. Too often they clash with incomprehension and disbelief about the symptoms they face. They advocated thorough scientific research and guidelines that could be adapted if one better understands the disease in the future. Finally, they also called for better cooperation between primary care providers and hospitals. Those hearings came after proposals of resolution from the opposition parties cdH and Défi. We should be grateful to them for ringing the bell. The text on which work was finally carried out came after the hearings and was by the majority parties. My group would like to join with the concerns and questions to the government in the basic document, on which we wanted to work constructively, because we were missing or wanted to see more emphasis on certain issues. We have tabled six amendments, two of which were incorporated into the text. They were mainly aimed at providing sufficient scientific support for the guidelines and advice requested from the government and to leave room for adjustment when we know more about lung covid. For example, we advocated the introduction of lively guidelines as soon as possible, based on international scientific knowledge, so that adjustments can be made when knowledge of the disease increases. We also asked for a register to be established and also to communicate with healthcare providers, under the motto measuring is knowing. We also asked for data on effective interventions to be collected and communicated to the broad field of care. We also thought it would be a good idea to facilitate a consultation platform between healthcare providers and patients, as in the UK. In addition, we want a distinction to be made between lung covid and other diseases with similar symptoms. Unfortunately, these amendments were not accepted. Our group will therefore certainly return to these elements during further parliamentary work. We must not forget, moreover, that even those who did not go through COVID-19 may have a particularly difficult time in this extremely difficult period, where nothing is what it once seemed to be and in which there is almost every certainty under discussion. Without COOVID-19, too, we can have a very hard time mentally, and this group also needs attention and guidance, so we do not want the physical pandemic to become a mental pandemic. We will support the motion for a resolution. We would have even liked to have signed them, but unfortunately that turned out to be a problem for some majority members. Soit, from the banks here, on behalf of my group, I would like to ask the government once again to pay attention to the long-term effects of COOVID-19 and to facilitate the registration, coordination and exchange of knowledge as much as possible. This should enable us to understand the disease scientifically, so that we can help that large group of patients and ensure that they re-enter society as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u99	Madam President, I would like to begin with the words of Tamara. She says, "You get a virus, you're sick, you fight, you survive, with months later a body that still hasn't regained its power. You feel powerless, misunderstood and unrecognized. No one understands that you've gotten ten years older figuratively. Not only your body, but also your heart hurts. It's hard to accept that you won't be the same anymore. It's five to twelve for a lot of people and actually recognition is all we want right now." These are the words of Tamara, presented by Ann Li, President of the post-COVID-19 community, and Anne-Sophie Spiette. Ann Li indeed started her speech in the hearing with testimonies and photos of lung covid patients who list their most common symptoms. Although we had heard all that in our environment and in the media, those testimonies did come in anyway. We have also asked a lot of questions about this for months to Minister De Block and now to Minister Vandenbroucke, because we heard that the virus, which has been holding us in its grip for over a year, has not been gone after hospitalization or illness. We heard about symptoms of fatigue, loss of taste and smell, all kinds of pain, breathing problems, brain mist, memory loss. Mentally, that all weighs very heavily. According to the University of Antwerp, 30% of covid patients still have complaints after more than two months. If we then hear today that the millionth contamination was diagnosed, we do not need to have studied higher mathematics to realize that we are dealing with a huge problem for the coming weeks, months and years. The post-COVID-19 community, which exists for more than six months, was very clear and clear from the outset. She has been asking for the recognition of post-COVID-19 as a syndrome since it was founded. Secondly, it calls for clear guidelines for care providers and aid workers. After all, we have been told that many lung covid patients are not heard, understood or believed by caregivers or by their environment. Thirdly, it calls for more and better cooperation between first-line care providers and hospitals. Mrs Ann Li referred to the Leuven example, which we can learn a lot from. Fourthly, the community is asking for more scientific research so that we can figure out how to deal with the syndrome and the complaints. We have set an example ourselves by coming to the hearings and continuing dialogue with all of us on what lies ahead. Fifthly, it insists on being involved in future policy choices on the subject. It was therefore good to see how Mr Jiroflée, together with the Minister, received the representatives of the patient associations last week. What they are asking for in particular is that we all realise that the long-term nature of this disease weighs on human and economic terms, for the patient, but certainly also for the environment. This disease has a severe impact on health care. There are, of course, a lot of systems in our health care that deal with people with long-term covid complaints. The KCE study is also fully investigating it. A few months ago, we assumed that our systems could cope with a large part of what the patients were struggling with, but we cannot allow these patients to be ill for two years before they are covered by a chronic status. We need to give them the right care now. That is why I am pleased that a good resolution is before us, which is explained by the exceptional circumstances in which we remain after fourteen months, the exceptional circumstances in which these patients try to get better every day, get back to their lives and start working again in society. It is therefore, of course, very important that they are given the very best care and that the Minister of Health starts working with this resolution to give them the very best care. I think it is very important for the patients that we all reflect on this in this half-round today. We have held hearings and discussions on this in committee. I think it is very important for patients that we acknowledge them and ask the Minister to do so. It is important that we remain attentive to it in our environment. One of the most captivating complaints I have heard from the patients is that they often get the answer that it is between their two ears; that they should rest well and that everything will be better afterwards. There's absolutely no help for the patients. I want to put another heart in them along this road. We know that they are having a very difficult time. This is a warm appeal to our government, to our Health Minister, to get to work quickly. We are already engaged with all colleagues in the Committee on Health and Equal Opportunities to question the Minister on a regular basis about the state of play. These patients can't wait. It's five to twelve for a lot of people. I hope that with this resolution we will take a major step forward in order to better guide them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u100	Madam President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, here are some testimonies. "Before I did the covid, I did six hours of sports a week. After getting this shit, I'm unable to walk a mile without being breathless and on the verge of exhaustion" (David, 48 years old). "I contracted the virus in October and since then I have been suffering from a disruption of the central and peripheral nervous system. I am still recovering" (Daphne, a 43-year-old friend). "For eleven months, I still haven't completely recovered the taste and smell. I also suffer from very regular migraines and chronic fatigue" (Laura, 34 years old). These testimonies, ladies and gentlemen, are the result of the many messages that I have received and that we have all received in recent months. These testimonies echo the hearings that we had the chance to have in our Health Committee, during which we had the impression – in any case, it was my personal feeling – that there was then a collective awareness of all the members of the committee, but above all a collective will to make very concrete progress in favour of these people, who are still suffering from these post-covid-19 symptoms. During these same hearings, I also think of the testimonies relayed by Anne-Sophie Spiette, representative of the post-covid-19 community, who, during his speech, told us that "The long covid has weakened me so much that even my grandparents, 80 years old, are in better shape than I am", or "We don't live anymore, we survive, we feel diminished. The long covid stole our lives." These same testimonies of the sick also allowed others to keep hope and not to feel alone in the face of this situation. We have often heard that these people are the forgotten of the crisis. Today, I hope that this feeling will no longer be present in these people and that they will feel more recognized and supported. This feeling was also shared by Amélie, president of the post-covid-19 association, who stressed how these exchanges of experience had helped her "to remain patient in the face of the slow recovery and to keep the hope of curing one day". Long-term covid-19 is a reality for many people, which is difficult to live because, after being infected with the virus and fighting it, they continue to suffer from symptoms that persist for many months. These symptoms, which are diverse and varied, are still often misunderstandings on the side of the entourage, employers and care professionals themselves. Because we are not all equal in the face of the disease – this one as well as others – awareness is needed. During the hearings, we heard some witnesses explain their chance of having an understanding professional and family environment, while others have to endure the incomprehension of their professional environment, as some do not understand why, several weeks or months later, a person with post-covid-19 symptoms remained unable to return to work. For all these reasons, it was also important to move forward. Since last October, the WHO has been warning about the long-term effects of covid-19. In February, Hans Kluge, the organisation's European Regional Director, said that long covid-19 was "a clear and high priority for WHO". He added that it must be for all health authorities. According to some studies conducted in our country, and although it should always be borne in mind that these figures are grey and still uncertain, this long covid-19 would affect between 10 and 20 per cent of patients affected by the virus. Despite their hypothetical nature, these figures remain worrying. We can speak sometimes of exhaustion sometimes of shortness of breath, but also of memory disorders, loss of taste and/or smell, joint pain, and I pass it. The hearings we have held in the Committee on Health have been extremely enlightening in this respect. Today, the text that is on our benches is obviously an answer to these patients and their representatives that we have heard, that we have personally been able, all of us, to meet and who have sometimes shared with a lot of difficulty but always with a lot of sincerity their lives after the covid. I would like to take this opportunity to thank all colleagues in the Committee on Health, the majority as opposed. These colleagues have all made it possible today to arrive at a fairly comprehensive text which has received unanimity in committee. We'll always be able to see the half-empty glass. We can always say that we may have been too late, that we may have been a little too slow to submit this text, or that it does not go far enough. I still have the feeling that we worked in the right direction after these hearings, after hearing a whole series of people. In any case, we have been able to take full account of this new problem. In this text we have been able to make a whole series of clear recommendations with regard to the knowledge of the moment, which does not detract from the work done by the authors of the proposals which were already on the table and which have themselves contributed to the improvement of the text which we are discussing today. I am thinking in particular of Catherine Fonck and Sophie Rohonyi who had also opened the debate with the tabling of their text. I think that today they can also take part in this text because their work has been very important in relation to this matter, which is no less so. This text will allow for the recognition of these patients, adults but also, as was pointed out in the committee, children and adolescents. It seemed to us very important to be able to take account of everyone. This is obviously a fundamental step. In order to do so, as called for in the resolution, data, statistics and their examination will have to continue to be collected in order to allow for a better definition and screening of long-term covid. This text is certainly, when we ask for figures, a first step. Today we have been working on a text that is confined to the Committee on Health, but tomorrow, when we may have more objective data, we may be able to work in the Committee on Social Affairs, in particular to see what needs to be done at other levels. What we also want today is to allow all these patients to be cared for as best they can, in an outpatient setting, in a multidisciplinary way. It is also a fundamental point that has been raised on many occasions during the hearings, whether or not these people have stayed in hospital as a result of the disease. It will also be necessary to respond to the financial difficulties faced by these long-term co-viders in the context of the multiple care they need, but also because of the loss of income for some who have unfortunately had to stop working. That is why this resolution calls for a very clear assessment of the mechanism of the maximum to be charged (MàF) to see precisely how to improve things in this context by incorporating certain specific services. The economic aspect must therefore not be obscured. It was clearly mentioned, on many occasions during the hearings; this aspect could not be ignored. That is why it is reflected in this resolution. Finally, this recognition of the long covid will have to be accompanied by an important awareness since the hearings have shown how sceptical and dubious some remain in the face of this situation. It will therefore be necessary to raise awareness among care providers, but also among mutualities, occupational doctors, employers and even patients themselves, so that they can quickly recognise this long-term co-vid and take the necessary steps. Throughout this process, as pointed out by some colleagues, it is essential to involve as much as possible the patients and the associations representing them because they are the most legitimate ones to define their needs and the measures to be taken, as they have shown during the hearings. Madam President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, it is therefore an important step that we are taking today for all these patients with long covid, for their recognition that they are waiting so long. It is a step that will no doubt call for others, which I call my wishes, when the knowledge grows and when the problem is even better identified. Today, we are making several clear requests to the government to allow for recognition, follow-up, quality support for all patients with long-term covid. No doubt the Minister of Health will give him the expected follow-up because we can see that he, together with my colleague Karin Jiroflée, met the voice carriers of the long covid. Like us, the minister has been made aware of their daily lives, of their difficulties and certainly of the need to act quickly. As the minister said, it is time to take patients with these symptoms seriously. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u101	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we have heard here again in the testimonies that have been made by the speakers, that Covid-19 has caused and continues to cause many casualties. One's worse off than the other. For some, it passes like a cold. Unfortunately, others stay on the sucker for a long time. That fool can sometimes be painful, as the testimonies at the hearings showed. After more than a year and a half living with the virus, we already know a lot, but there is also a lot we do not know. Victims therefore grouped in facebook groups and in post-covid associations to strengthen their complaints and thus be heard. Fortunately, they have been heard in committee. The initiative of the resolution is therefore a step in the right direction. The Flemish Interest agrees that a regulatory framework should be set up to help victims as best they can, with the emphasis on recognition. Once there is recognition and recognition, the victims can count on financial and social safety nets that everyone can count on, a proper diagnosis can be made and appropriate treatment can be started. That is the crux of the matter: recognition and hearing. It is certainly important to develop a multidisciplinary approach so that all aspects of care provision can be addressed in a holistic approach to patients and their complaints. With regard to registration, as I said in committee, we are pleased that our suggestion on the first initial proposal to involve Sciensano in the management of the data was included in the resolution before us. If we want to learn from the data and that the data are processed, that point is certainly essential. For the financial impact, we believe that it is a good thing to link costs to the maximum bill, so that costs do not increase too high and there would be no unnecessary discrimination against other chronic patients. I reiterated in committee that unfortunately the text continues to mention 'long-term covid', a poor translation of long covid, although it is correct in the title. It is about the long-term effects of COOVID-19. Unfortunately, however, the text always refers to long-term covid. That is why we would like to retable our amendment, in order to clarify it, in the hope that Members will be able to enjoy the clarification. Our amendment seeks to insert a new recital, which points out that long-term covid means the long-term effects of COOVID-19, not to cause misunderstandings. To that end, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u102	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, for more than a year we have been following the epidemiological figures and bulletins communicated regularly by Sciensano. Behind these figures are people! Today, after a year, more than a million Belgians have been infected with SARS-CoV-2, with its sad death toll. If many people make it, if the sick generally see their symptoms disappear after a few days or weeks, we were able to hear at the hearings in the Committee on Health that other people suffering from covid have been living for several months with sequelae of the disease, sometimes important. It is clear that these sequelae and health damage must be recognized. This text ensures the recognition of this disease while taking into account the various consequences faced by these patients, whether they are adults, children or adolescents. In this sense, this proposal provides for the development, in collaboration with medical experts and centres of expertise, of guidelines based on clinical bases, of course integrating patients, who are the first concerned and most able to share what they live on a daily basis, especially since the knowledge of these various forms of pathology is recent. It was therefore important to consider that these guidelines could be flexible and editable based on scientific data and medical experience. This implies a substantial work that is proposed to the KCE on the scientific elements that are already available for long covid, while examining epidemiology and taking into account the multidisciplinary approach needed to treat these patients. In this context, in order to be able to provide financial support to patients, the proposal calls for INAMI to examine the various costs associated with long-term covid and determine whether they can be included in the maximum amount to be invoiced. Further, following this KCE study, it will be necessary to examine what existing measures can be used for these patients in addition to chronic disease status. Also for better knowledge, the text provides for the publication and updating of a list of symptoms of long covid to enable the general public to be better informed and aware, drawing on, inter alia, what is being done by the Centre for Disease Control and Prevention in the United States or by the National Health Service in Great Britain. We know that, in these situations, the compilation of statistics is essential. It is therefore also proposed to carry out a quantitative and objective evaluation of patients with long-term covid-19 through the national health survey. Finally, with this proposal, we ask the Government to take its full part in European cooperation in this area, focusing in particular on a specific research plan. Our MR Group has been able to contribute and collaborate in the drafting of this motion for a resolution by Mr Prévot, whom I thank. This motion for a resolution has been adopted unanimously in committee, and it will still be adopted in plenary today. This commitment is simply essential for all of these people who suffer from covid-19 every day.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u103	Madam President, I would like to thank my fellow Members for the constructive discussions we have had in committee, across party boundaries. I would particularly like to thank Mrs Fonck for the impetus she gave to the very important debate. I would also like to thank the many speakers and patients we have heard in committee for the way in which they have explained their problem situation and expressed themselves very vulnerable. The longer the awareness grows that lung covid and the long-term and profound health problems associated with infection have an impact on our society. The hearings in the Committee on Health clearly showed that the situation of many patients is poignant, not only because of the health complaints, but also because of the financial picture. It is therefore very important that the government sends a clear signal. We have heard many times today that there are still a lot of questions. I am therefore pleased that the KCE will soon be landing a long-covid study to help policy makers find more and structural solutions for that particular target group. The text contains many good aspects which have already been highlighted by several colleagues. I shall therefore confine myself to one aspect which is very important to our group and that is the children. We know that a lot of children are also victims of lung covid today and that there is often little understanding of the symptoms they present at school. I think it is important that there should be cooperation with the Communities to raise awareness and information in schools. It is important that this support is there for the teachers. That is also very important for the children, because that way they can continue to feel good in their skin and follow a nice path to a nice career. In my view, the resolution approaches the issue of long covid in a realistic and effective way and I hope that we will be able to take further initiatives on the basis of research currently being carried out to ensure that we can further support that target group in the future. I would like to thank my fellow Members. We will certainly vote in favour of this resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u104	Madam President, with the PTB, we will of course also support this text. First of all, I want to thank the patient associations that have been working for months to gain recognition for the effects of long-term covid-19. I have previously thanked the chairman of the committee who has made sure that the work is moving forward quickly, and who has given the floor to the patients during the hearings. I would also like to thank Mrs Fonck and Mrs Rohonyi who quickly took a parliamentary initiative by submitting a text with not only observations but also commitments. I'll come back. We know today that covid-19 is not just a flu. It is a real systemic disease that affects not only the lungs, but also the heart, blood vessels, kidneys, liver and nervous system, among others. One in ten people suffers long-term consequences of this disease. The testimony we heard during the commission was cold in our backs and touched us enormously. First of all, I would like to return to prevention. The adage says: Prevention is better than cure. In the face of these testimonies, I can only say that, for me, the so-called Belgian policy against covid is criminal. Combating this virus is quite possible. Countries have done it. They were able to ensure that there were no more infections in their territory, through testing, tracing, isolation and vaccination. As long as our country remains a red zone, where hundreds of infections are detected every day, dozens of people will have long-term consequences. The covid-19 pandemic not only caused very high mortality, but also enormous morbidity. The long-term covid-19 is therefore, with the covid-19, a new disease. Like many new diseases, it is still unknown to the general public and also, in part, to the medical world. As a general practitioner, I sometimes find that people are really not well after being affected by covid-19 and suffer long-term consequences. It has even happened to me to make an a posteriori diagnosis because of a problem of testing and rather vague complaints, to finally have to conclude that there are effects of covid-19 in the long term. People who suffer from symptoms of long-term covid-19 not only fight the virus and its consequences, sometimes for months, but also face the misunderstanding of the medical world. They are also fighting for recognition and real care for their illness and the financial consequences it entails. With this motion for a resolution, we are taking a step forward. It makes it possible to educate the medical world and the general public about the existence of the long-term covid-19. It will provide guidance, a multidisciplinary approach and a list of symptoms. I would like to go back to the fairly numerous amendments tabled by Mrs Fonck and Mrs Rohonyi. We could have gone further. The amendments tabled draw attention to the need to provide more concrete assistance to patients who suffer from long-term covid-19 and who have to bear the financial consequences of their illness. I am thinking in particular of the non-reimbursable benefits which, in essence, are not taken into account in the framework of the MàF. I am thinking of the request not to see any extra fee charged to these patients. I am still thinking of the request for recognition of this disease as an occupational disease. If covid-19 is recognized as an occupational disease, this must also be the case for long-term covid-19. I am also thinking of the best reimbursement of physiotherapy sessions because many people need much more than 18 sessions. Finally, there is the question of the reintegration of the persons concerned in the workplace, where possible and when adjustments are possible. We shall, of course, vote on this text. I would like to reiterate once again that one of the consequences of covid-19 is not only mortality, but also morbidity.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u105	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the resolution on long covid is indeed before us. A number of colleagues have already mentioned it. We have heard a number of compelling testimonies during the hearings. Testimonies that brought us back to reality. Many people came home in the evening and wondered why certain measures were still applicable. I believe they were given a wake-up call during the hearings. We have heard people who are certainly not thought to be at risk. Those were younger people, people who were healthy, but still suffered from covid contamination months later or almost a year later. Now, what is important to us, and what is also very strongly addressed in this resolution, is that we want to use the knowledge that is already present in hospitals and also in primary care. A lot of lessons have already been learned about useful treatments. However, as a number of Members have pointed out, we do not always know everything today. There is still a certain unknown factor about what covid infection can mean in the longer term. It is therefore important that this resolution should be given sufficient scope to take into account future insights as well. I shall be brief because it will be a little later in the evening, and we have a number of interesting debates on the agenda. How this resolution came about, I think, is a good example of how Parliament can make a difference. I am not too sad to say that Mrs Fonck and Mrs Rohonyi have opened this debate. I would like to thank them for that. The final resolution adopted in committee has also been substantially amended by the opposition and has received a great deal of support. Many amendments have been accepted effectively, and I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that this is something we should be proud of. We have been able to make a difference in matters that matter. We are asking the government to deal with this problem in a very specific way.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u106	Madam President, fatigue, headache, difficulty breathing, anxiety and depression, the list is even longer. They're all symptoms of what they started calling long covid. These symptoms continue to work or develop for weeks and sometimes months after being infected. British research has shown that one COOVID-19 patient in five has long-term symptoms. One in five, that's not nothing. After last year's focus on combating this pandemic, the long-term consequences of this disease were gradually being addressed in 2021. In the meantime, several patient associations have emerged, which are doing particularly useful work. They point out, inter alia, that long-term covid requires a multidisciplinary approach. The symptoms are very diverse. Not only somatic but also psychological consequences must be taken into account. Moreover, the health problems and the associated costs often affect not only the patient, but also the family and the surrounding environment. Because, especially during the first wave, only severely ill patients were tested, not everyone who has been infected and now has symptoms of lung covid can show that there was effective infection. The consequences are therefore often classified as psychosomatic complaints, which is particularly unfortunate. Of course, it does not benefit patients at all if this disease is not recognised. There is therefore a clear need for patients to be recognised on a clinical basis. Several Belgian but also foreign patient associations rightly demand this recognition. The WTO also agrees with this demand and calls on the countries to do so. Recognition of the disease by healthcare providers and recognition by health care professionals in general are crucial. This will ensure that appropriate care is provided in the short term. This way we can often avoid this disease becoming chronic. We believe that if the disease becomes chronic, patients are entitled to the status of the chronically ill, if they meet the conditions in that area. We have already learned a lot from foreign studies, but in our country the KCE is working on a study on long-term effects. It reports on this regularly and hopes to be able to conclude in October this year. The advancing knowledge forces us to draw up living guidelines as soon as possible, which we can adapt to the progressing clinical and scientific insight. That is why they are living directives. In the resolution before us, we also call for attention to be paid to the financial aspects of this condition. We also call for attention to be paid to the rapid education and awareness of primary care. We are calling for attention to be paid to the effects of long covid on children's health and well-being, because unfortunately, children do not escape this phenomenon either. Madam President, I will leave it at that, but I would just like to stress that recognition and recognition are the key words here, my dear government. Recognition and recognition of this disease must be achieved in the short term. Everyone in our country has the right to the best of care. Dear government, the patients with long-term COVID-19 are counting on you. We want to make that clear with this resolution. We will remind you of this regularly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u107	Colleagues, it is sometimes useful to recall history to show the way we have come and how important it is to plead, to plead again and to plead always so that the lines can move. The World Health Organization rang the alarm nine months ago. That was in August 2020. From then on, I had called the Ministers of Health. When I tabled my motion for a resolution in October, I had already had contacts with Anne-Sophie Spiette and Ann Li, who represent thousands and thousands of patients. Anne-Sophie Spiette had told me at that time how the people affected by the long covid showed, she said to me clearly, more and more signs of despair and a sense of abandonment on the part of the medical community and the government. She also explained to me at that time that she had questioned the various health ministers, not only through a carte blanche, but also directly by e-mail, and that there had been no reaction. From then on, I kind of took my pilgrim stick. It is true that in November I asked each of you, ladies and gentlemen, in this House, that we should be able to support the urgency and that we should be able to debate this text in the committee as a matter of urgency. The Vivaldi majority – probably considering that when it comes from the opposition, it is not interesting – decided to vote against this urgent request to be able to debate and find solutions for people suffering from long covid. I did not stop there and decided to make this a priority in the committee. We were then able to move forward. I had suggested to Mrs Piette and Mrs Li that the patients could be directly auditioned with the caregivers, and that is what we did. I think this is particularly important, because there are many patients and because they have long felt and still feel forgotten by the authorities. Nine months of mobilization were necessary to recognize patients with long-term covid-19 in the professional sphere and to consider – in any case, at first – guaranteeing and making accessible their multidisciplinary care. Indeed, beyond a month, recognition as a long-term disease was prevented so far. The text presented to us this evening in plenary is a first step. We must be honest with patients by admitting it. It is indeed up to the minister to act, and to act quickly! As such, I would like to share with you an example that I have already described to several ministers. For months, patients with long covid have been waiting for a sufficient number of physiotherapy sessions – only 18 at present. All those working in revalidation with these patients argue for their situation to be taken into account, so that 60 physiotherapy sessions are finally authorized and reimbursable. On 7 May 2020, and history has repeated itself several times since then, the physiotherapists themselves submitted proposals to this effect within the Technical Council for Kinesitherapy. These requests have been reiterated to the former government, as well as to the current one. So far, cabinets have always stood in the way. These are concrete actions and clear measures that must be taken as a matter of urgency. I hope that the step taken today will, for example, finally solve this very practical but fundamental issue for the patients concerned, that of a reimbursement of 60 – instead of 18 – physiotherapy sessions. Sophie Rohonyi and I have tabled amendments which I submit to you again today. This is the case, for example, with physiotherapy sessions. That's why I'm talking about it. I find it unfortunate that you have blocked these amendments in committee. These amendments were also intended to go further in accompanying these patients; they also dealt with nomenclature, occupational reintegration, occupational disease, costs, status, multidisciplinary care or registration of the number of patients. I hope that the federal government, as well as the governments of the federated entities, will assume their responsibilities and implement these recommendations quickly. It must not be just words, even if these words are voted in this House. They must be followed by actions. Until now, patients have not yet seen the implementation of the various measures and recommendations. Yet, I assure you, they are terribly waiting for them, given the severe attacks which unfortunately affect them. I would also like to express my full support for all the patients involved. I've met a lot of them, and many have contacted me or asked for them. They had contacted me to explain their journey so difficult, their dismay at the silence of the authorities, the non-responses. I also express my support for all those who have testified publicly, such as Anne-Sophie Spiette and Ann Li. In essence, what these patients want is not only to advance their personal situation, but also to advance the concrete situation of tens of thousands of patients concerned in Belgium today, as well as that of the patients of tomorrow. We are facing a major public health problem. We have every interest, not only for the benefit of these patients, but also for their professional and personal future, in moving these recommendations forward quickly and implementing them. We have to deal with this public health problem that I consider to be of major importance to these patients. Thank you, colleagues. I hope that we will continue to put pressure on governments, particularly health ministers, together in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u108	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the health crisis that we have been experiencing for over a year has literally upset our lives. We had to learn to give up some of our freedoms to protect the most vulnerable from an invisible virus. Stephen Hawking rightly said that intelligence is the ability to adapt to change. If there is one thing to remember from this health crisis, it is the need to adapt constantly to this virus but also to all the puzzles that result from it. Among these puzzles, there is the long covid-19. However, this disease is a reality that is experienced by almost 100,000 people in Belgium, since it is estimated that one in ten people with covid-19 will develop symptoms of the disease in the long term. It is also estimated that one in three patients with covid-19 who have been hospitalized is subject to long-term covid-19. Elderly people, adults, children, adolescents, coorbidities or not, serious form of covid-19 or not, the long covid-19 reminds us how much the covid-19 saves no one and how violent and handicaping its symptoms can be: intense fatigue, fever, chest pain, pulmonary sequelae, neurological symptoms, problems of concentration and memory, digestive and sleep disorders, tachycardia, anosmia. Here is a non-exhaustive list of the many sequelae experienced by patients with long covid-19 in some cases for more than a year now for the first infected in February and March 2020. These physical sequelae, accompanied by psychological and financial difficulties, have upset the daily lives of these patients who were not recognized by our government. Some then created a Facebook group called "The forgotten of the long covid Belgium" precisely to underline the feeling of abandonment and despair that they felt through the multiple and difficult steps to take to care for themselves, to try to see their incapacity for work compensated for a disease that was unknown and employers and general practitioners, through also, it is true, the deafening silence of the government in the face of their distress. It was thanks to this Facebook group that these patients were able to stick together, that they were able to exchange advice but also to organize themselves to raise political and media awareness. Then, in September, I had the opportunity to meet Anne-Sophie, a 38-year-old woman. Anne-Sophie contracted the covid-19 at the end of March at her workplace, an institution for people with mental disabilities. Her lungs were affected, while Anne-Sophie was young, sporty and healthy. Touched by his testimony and courage, I called Minister De Block and then Minister Vandenbroucke. Once, twice, three times. I reminded them of the WHO's insistent call for all health authorities to consider the care of patients covid long as "a clear and high priority", starting in August 2020. Every time, I've had a few weak answers. I have had no concrete commitment to a problem which is very concrete and urgent. It was therefore more than time for things to move, which is why both Mrs Fonck and I tabled a motion for a resolution calling on the government to achieve a high-quality recognition, follow-up and support for patients with long-term covid-19 symptoms. This was followed by hearings in the Health Committee: KCE, representatives of hospitals, SPF Santé, medical unions, LUSS. These hearings were punctuated by the testimonies of Anne-Sophie Spiette and Ann Li, representing these long covid patients, whose mere presence in committee was a real feat. These testimonies were so poignant that they finally forced the majority to become aware of the magnitude of the phenomenon and the urgency of responding to it, through a new motion for a resolution for which I would like to thank the colleagues who have responded to these testimonies. I quote: "I don't know how to walk more than fifteen or twenty minutes and only on a plate. To come from the station to Parliament, you had to pick me up because it's going up. I haven't been able to get back to work for a year. I feel like I've taken 80 years. When I go shopping, I walk slower than the elderly with canes. The long covid does not exist officially anywhere and this non-recognition is a very bad signal from the government. Denial is the worst and it's how you feel from the beginning." At the end of these hearings, therefore, there was finally a political will to recognize these patients, their experiences, their daily difficulties, especially financial ones. As Ann rightly said in his audition: "This disease cannot push us into poverty. Today, however, we have to manage with 40% of our salary and fund our kine and psychologist sessions, our neuropsychology assessment and revalidation sessions, our dietary supplements, our medical examinations, chest scanners, repeated blood tests, the purchase of oxygen meters." I am therefore very pleased that the majority have finally joined the fight led by Mrs Fonck and myself since September 2020 to respond to the call for help from these patients and to put an end to their psychological distress and precarisation. The text we have reached in committee thus calls on the government to make concrete commitments. The contours of the long covid-19 will be defined by the KCE. The long covid-19 will finally be recognized as such accompanied by a communication with all actors on the ground and with the population in general. Access to multidisciplinary outpatient rehabilitation programmes will be provided and a focus will finally be placed on children and adolescents, both in schools and in KCE research. These are indispensable commitments that were either already included in the motion for a resolution put forward by my DeFI party or brought by way of amendments by Mrs Fonck and myself. However, I cannot help but regret that some patient requests have not been taken into account without finally knowing why. As far as the financial treatment of care is concerned, they told us and told us again, the maximum amount to be charged and the status of chronically ill is not sufficient. The motion for a resolution, however, merely "considers whether the costs of long covid-19 can be taken up in the maximum amount to be charged to patients", in addition to a hypothetical chronic condition which depends on conditions which are already very difficult to fulfil and which are even impossible to fulfil for the first infected in any case. For this reason, we have tabled and are resubmitting an amendment which aims to grant patients recognised as having long-term covid-19 a specific status "long-term covid-19 disease" which would allow the benefits of chronic status to be included within it, but also those other cared for which would be necessary. We have also re-tabled our amendment to instruct the federal Minister of Health to put the issue of patient support and follow-up covid-19 on the agenda of the Interdepartmental Health Conference, in order to better follow up on all the requests contained in this resolution. We have the opportunity here, ladies and gentlemen, to respond to one of the unanimous observations of the Covid Special Committee, namely the lack of unity of command and cooperation between the different levels of power, a unit of command which must cover all aspects of the health crisis and therefore the care of its victims. It is by refusing to recognize long-term covid-19 as an occupational disease that the motion for a resolution really misses the mark. Why does Fedris today recognize covid-19 as an occupational disease and not its long form? This results in discrimination between patients, which must be addressed. Failing this, patients with long-term covid-19 will not be able to receive full reimbursement for their care and travel expenses. They will have no right to appeal to Fedris in the event of a problem with their employer. They will remain in an infernal cycle where the stress of not being able to pay for their medical examinations coupled with the stress of living without pay for long months only reinforces the psychological distress and symptoms of the disease. I therefore hope, ladies and gentlemen, that this time you will support our amendment which aims to establish a framework for the recognition of long-term covid-19 as an occupational disease, with retroactive effect, from the day after the recognition of covid-19 as an occupational disease ended. All long-term covid-19 patients say this: that's what they need most. Finally, that is what is missing in the resolution that we will be voting on earlier. The LUSS, for its part, has consistently stressed the importance of preserving employment and reintegrating socio-professionally in good conditions. Do you realize that for the patients who fought for the vote on this text, who in the meantime cured the covid-19, but who did not receive a salary for months, this resolution will ultimately be useless? I will conclude my speech with a note of hope. Indeed, France recently inaugurated the first multidisciplinary course for patients with long-term covid-19 in a clinic in Montpellier. The British Minister of Health announced that he would free up more resources to fund research on long-term covid-19. And then at home, too, things are moving. I would also like to thank the teams of some hospitals, such as the CHIREC-Hôpital Delta in Brussels, which has developed a revalidation programme with multidisciplinary management, starting in June 2020, but also the CHU Brugmann in Brussels, which has launched a study to better assess the symptoms of post-covid-19 and which proposes a management adapted to these symptoms. I would also like to thank the general practitioners, who have inquired themselves about this disease and have thus grasped its seriousness and urgency to support their patients. Finally, I must thank all the patients with long covid-19 who, despite the fatigue, despite the symptoms that have been eating them for months and months, have constantly alerted us. If the lines finally move today, it is above all because of their perseverance and determination. WHO and many countries have made a commitment to support long covid-19 patients. It is now the turn of Belgium, through the vote on this resolution, but also, and above all, through the concrete acts that the government will have to take without delay. In any case, we will be extremely vigilant. During their auditions, the patients told us that they felt that they were no longer abandoned, but that they were finally being heard. Today, let's give them the guarantee that they were! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u109	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u110	• 27 • Dominic Sneppe cs (1861/6) • 37 – Sophie Rohonyi cs (1861/6)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u111	• 30 – Sophie Rohonyi cs (1861/6)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u112	• 32 – Catherine Fonck cs (1861/6)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u113	• 33 – Catherine Fonck cs (1861/6)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u114	• 34 – Catherine Fonck cs (1861/6)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-06-definitief-55-plenair-ip101x.u115	The vote on the reserved amendments and on the whole proposal will take place at a later stage. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled and on the whole of the proposal will take place later. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 6 May 2021 at 8.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, May 6, 2021 at 8.15 p.m.
