ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u2	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 22 June 2021, you have received an amended agenda for this week's meetings. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 22 June 2021, you have received an amended agenda for this week's meetings. Is there any comment on this? Are there any comments on this? Accordingly, the agenda was adopted. The agenda has therefore been adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u3	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Ms. de Laveleye referred to her written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u4	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, on Friday 23 April, the Council of Ministers approved your preliminary draft to set the nuclear tax, technically-scientifically expressed as the repartition contribution, at EUR 72 million for the period 2021-2023. Of course, this contribution relates to those plants which are not subject to the extension of life. The amount shall be fixed by royal decree. This already happened on 6 December 2020. This is a tax jurisdiction that can only be enforced if the legislator subsequently ratifys that royal decree. We'll do that sooner than before. That's a forward bank for me anyway. It is indeed the lowest contribution ever made and a huge reduction compared to the EUR 550 million, for example, which was the tax 9 years ago. The fee was introduced in 2008 to ensure that the operator would contribute fairly on the significant profits, actually the excess profits, that were recorded on the deprecated power stations. If the strong forces within Vivaldi's energy and climate policy - and I am sorry colleagues, they are not Open Vld, MR or CD&V - see their dream come true and all nuclear power plants on Belgian territory are shut down and dismantled, this revenue source will soon dry up. So, in this scenario, that's a rolling story. For those who are deeply disturbed by the low level of this repartition contribution, there is one address, that of the federal regulator CREG. After all, it is the CREG that literally uses the method of calculation and applies the methodology set out in the 2003 Act. The CREG should monitor fixed and variable costs every three years. It goes without saying that this dossier is linked by colleagues, among other things, to the question of nuclear fees for dismantling and reporting on dividends. It is good that Members of Parliament express their concern, it is even understandable, but both Mrs Marghem in the past and Mrs Van der Straeten in the present are perhaps responsible directors who will be very careful about the taxpayers' interests. So I'm not going to conduct intentional processes and I'm not going to play Nostradamus either. It is up to the Minister, perhaps after recess, to oblige the operator to build up and organise a sufficiently high commission for his obligations in this area. Of course there are also masters of mistrust among us, for purely ideological reasons. One of them is none other than my good colleague, Mr Warmoes. Mr Warmoes is aware of all the details of ENGIE Electrabel's accounts. "He is much more and better informed than the CREG about the opaque twists of the profit hungry operator and its shareholders." That's a quote. The world is very simple for Mr Warmoes. He summarized it in committee as follows: "Compared to the historical gains made by the operator, the remuneration is far too low." Thierry says Kees is done. Simple as hello.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u5	Of course, there are other colleagues who are bothering themselves with the level of the repartition contribution. If you cannot live with this repartition contribution and your distrust is so great, please ask the CREG to come to the committee and explain how it has come to such a low repartition contribution for the years 2020, 2021 and 2022. It will then clarify its decision of June 2020. It concerns information on fixed and variable costs. The CGEG considers that information to be confidential, in accordance with its domestic rules. I can only establish that. If we wish to gain access to this House, we are of course prepared to support the question of the masters of mistrust, but I note, Mr Warmoes, that you have not yet begun this, in your mind, criminal expedition on the part of the operator. Or you have to amend the law of 11 April 2003. It entrusts a series of tasks to the CREG, which at the same time has all the necessary expertise, resources and powers to carry out its mission independently and impartially, both vis-à-vis the operators and vis-à-vis the public authorities. The operator's fixed and variable costs shall be determined in accordance with the provisions of the law and the methodology provided for therein. If one does not agree with this method, then one has to change the law. I am not going to match myself with the CREG or the operator. Electrabel brought a case in which the company argued that its fixed operating costs for the power stations had increased by 16% and that the variable costs had increased by 28% compared to the amount laid down in the law for the previous period, for which a minimum amount was fixed at the beginning of the legislative period in consultation with Electrabel. It is, of course, about the previous legislature. The CREG provided the AD Energy with its opinion on the operator's margin of return in 2020. The minimum amount fell by about 50%. Colleagues, we may all be surprised at this now, but the question is what we are going to do about it. There has been a debate in this House for many years on the system of profit creaming, but it is always with political statements. I will conclude with the wise words of Mr Wollants, who rightly pointed out in committee with British flegma that when there was a great deal of margin and market prices for electricity had not fallen so spectacularly, there was not even a repartition contribution. Mr Warmoes, in our free society, companies can defend themselves, to the regret of whom they envy. Flemish Interest did not sell out our electricity production to our southern neighbours a few decades ago. Nor do we make any statements as to whether or not this contribution is justified and, as always in this matter, we will abstain from voting.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u6	Madam President, Mr Ravyts, I am very honoured that you have spent half of your speech on me or my party. Maybe my words hurt a little, but I have an answer for you anyway. If you listen carefully, you will understand that you are, of course, wrong in what you describe to me. This draft law was rejected by this committee and by Mr Ravyts as a purely technical matter. One colleague even said that we do not always have to repeat the debate. However, the way in which ENGIE Electrabel has made usury profits with Belgian nuclear power plants on the consumer's hood for years is a real disgrace. It is useful for us to take a moment to consider the history of the past in order to understand it properly. Indeed, in the 1990s, Belgian nuclear power plants were rapidly written off at the expense of consumers, i.e. families, self-employed persons and also SMEs, which some here claim to defend. Electrabel increased the electricity price to accelerate the payment of those nuclear power plants. Contrary to what was to be expected, the electricity price did not decrease once these plants had been paid off. The CREG calculated in 2010 that Electrabel earned 2 billion euros a year with those fully paid-off nuclear power plants. So that's what ended up in the middle of nowhere. That is why the federal government has introduced a nuclear tax, which is then called a repartition fee. She supposedly did that to take out those usury profits, but at first that tax was way too low. It initially amounted to EUR 250 million compared to the estimated EUR 2 billion profit from nuclear power plants. This tax was then increased to EUR 600 million for a period of time. From 2013 the tax has fallen to 150 to 200 million euros. That didn't wipe out the profits from usury at all. With the postponement of the core exit for Objectives 1 and 2 in 2015, the Michel Government changed the case with a flat-rate contribution for Objectives 1 and 2 of barely EUR 20 million. In addition, she changed the method of calculating the repartition contribution. I shall come back to that later, because this concerns us today for the rest of the power stations. As a result, of course, the nuclear tax fell even more. Unfortunately, Mrs Marghem, the former Energy Minister, is not present in the Chamber, because last time she played a little hide-and-seek in the committee. At the end of last year, when discussing the 2019 Repartition Contribution, she stated that she was surprised that the minimum amount had reached such a low level. It accused the CREG of having been badly negotiated, but the method of calculation to be applied by the CREG was laid down by the previous government, in which it was Minister of Energy. So it is simply not true that she is now putting the blame for the low contribution in the shoes of the CREG. It is the previous government, in particular the former Energy Minister, who is responsible for this. After all, it was the previous government that introduced the new method of calculation, and it is thanks to the government parties of the Michael government that Electrabel is barely paying a contribution to the profits of nuclear power stations today. As I said, Mrs Marghem was rather surprised, but in 2019 the nuclear tax was already historically low. It was EUR 137 million at the time. This year, the tax for 2020 is falling to a low point: it is only EUR 72 million. Together with the flat-rate contribution for Objectives 1 and 2, that is 92 million euros. That amount has never been so low and corresponds to a 75% reduction in the remuneration in less than ten years. Colleagues, this matter comes on our plate every year, because every year we have to ratify these KBs. It is therefore not the first time that the various parties have had to take a position on this issue. During the previous discussions, both Ecolo-Green and Vooruit pointed out that they never approve the ratification laws, because they considered that the repartition fee was far too low for operators. Not only did they agree with me, Mr Ravyts. It is therefore painful to see that they have now completely turned their carts with the participation of power. Minister Van der Straeten, you said in committee that it is the case. That's how the law rules. Like you're not the competent minister who can change this. Then I would prefer, Mr Ravyts, that the Minister himself should do it, since she has always felt that the law should be amended. I already asked the question in committee, but I didn't get a response. That is why I am once again asking the Greens and Ecolo colleagues, PS and Vooruit. Why do you support today's approval of this pitifully low nuclear tax? Why don't you do something about it? If the calculation mechanism is insufficient, Mr Verduyckt, - last year you said it was a good gift for the nuclear sector - why do you not intervene as Vivaldi Government? Why don't you change the law? Why isn't there a bill on the table here? Madam Minister, in 2019, as a Member of Parliament, you yourself complained that the opinions of the CREG were not available to the members of the committee. After all, that so-called objective calculation of the repartition contribution by the CREG is secret. You then stated that the committee should have access to the committee's opinions under the following ratification laws. You said, I quote: 'Members must at least be given sufficient information to enable them to assess the evolution of the repartition contribution in an objective manner'. In the committee you replied very nicely that the question can be put to the CREG. I think that's a little hypocritical. As a Member of Parliament, you are suing the lack of transparency, but now that you are a minister and are able to do something about it, you are not doing anything about it. Of course, I am going to be told that it is logical that the nuclear tax has fallen because Electrabel's profits have fallen because of the higher costs and investments to increase the safety of nuclear power plants in general. That is nonsense, of course, because the nuclear contribution has always been far too low. Of course, the historical gains made by Electrabel at the taxpayers' expense remain a fact and have never really been skimmed. For this, the intertwinedness between Electrabel and politics has always been too great. Secondly, that argument has also been fully overtaken by current events. A few weeks ago, Electrabel leaked 700 million euros compared that with the 92 million euros Electrabel now has to pay. Electrabel is said to have made little profit and made big costs, but there was enough capital for a record transfer to the French shareholders. At the committee meeting, some colleagues expressed their concern about this, while concerns are the least that can be expressed, and yet these colleagues are very happy to approve this bill. Mr Ravyts, at the committee meeting you accused me of knowing it all better than the CREG, and today you even say that I know Electrabel's books from outside. That is a great honour. Unfortunately, I can confirm that your statement is not correct. I am concerned that the CREG is in a straitjacket. The CREG must deal with the current law and make calculations in the manner decided by the Michael administration. In the calculations of the CREG I have complete confidence and the figures do not lie. From its introduction, the nuclear tax was far too low compared to the usury gains estimated by the CREG. The nuclear tax has always been too low. At its peak, it was EUR 600 million per year, compared to an estimated profit of EUR 2 billion per year. So it has nothing to do with mistrust, it is purely a mathematical issue. Mr Ravyts, your explanation has shown once again what interests the Flemish interest actually defends here: everything to support nuclear energy, even if it is the profits of the French multinationals, who do not even speak Flemish. For the multinationals, either French or other, you have it. Madam Secretary, during the previous discussion on the 2019 Repartition Contribution, you stated that it is difficult for the legislator to be ahead of the market. That is a harsh statement, because it shows a certain defeatism. My esteemed colleague, Mr Verduyckt, also referred in committee to the Synatom Fund and the nuclear commissions for the decommissioning of nuclear power stations and the disposal of high-level radioactive waste. We share this concern, because we absolutely cannot allow the parent company ENGIE to completely drain the Belgian Electrabel and possibly even bankrupt it, so that the Belgian taxpayer can ultimately pay for the costs of decommissioning nuclear power stations and nuclear waste. This also means that we must demand a fair contribution to the operation of nuclear power stations and, therefore, we must also skim off the usury gains that Electrabel has made in the past and which are still making today. We must therefore demand more of these profits. This is clearly not the case with the current legislation. We will therefore not, of course, approve the bill, nor will we approve the Royal Decrees.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u7	Mr Warmoes, Mr Ravyts and Mr Verduyckt also wish to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u8	Madam President, Mr Warmoes, I have quoted you several times. You mentioned me in your turn, which I do not blame you. Mr Warmoes, you actually confirm what I have indicated. Firstly, if you can't live with it, which you can't, then nothing will stop you from putting forward a bill on the subject. Secondly, nothing prevents you from having the CREG come to committee and debate its decision with the CREG. Thirdly, you forget that the decision of June 2020 was published. In September 2020, Mrs Marghem made an explicit reference to it during one of her last days of her presidency, because I had asked an oral question about the fact that she was surprised. Elle était étonnée, to put it in French. I asked her why she was surprised or surprised. One of the keys to a possible answer is that there has also been a trial brought by Electrabel. The decision, which is not even an opinion, also refers to it by the CREG. Electrabel got it legally. So this is not at all about whether I am for or against the operator. I'm just establishing that. I have to deal with the toys and the facts I get my hands on. That's why we're abstaining. After all, we do not express our opinion on height. You're speaking up. You're making intentional processes. We are simply assuming the reality of the facts. We did not make the 2003 law. We also did not sell out Belgian production to France. You can't blame us for that. However, that is the playing field on which we must act. Mrs Marghem is here and will be able to explain better than I why she was surprised in September 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u9	Mr Ravyts is right when he says he was not involved in the case. Of course, we can never blame you for any responsibility. You are right to say that the source of income will one day be exhausted. It's a story that's coming to an end. The choice of nuclear power stations has now been made. Mr Warmoes asked me whether I think that this repartition contribution is sufficient today. You know my answer to that. She doesn't call me much of a cause for joy. You say they lost the trial. I think the legal battle has ended too soon. A choice was made then, but the world now looks different. Surely you will have noticed that other decisions have been taken in the meantime in that energy dossier, in which this producer is involved. In the meantime, there is also certainty about the future of the energy story in our country. In an ideal world, we should address this issue again, but I think it is now much more important to build the future of our energy landscape. That's what the Minister's working on right now. You are right, Mr Ravyts, that I should not link the fees because one has nothing to do with the other. Where this commission dries up, this is absolutely not the case for the de-polluter-pays-principle. As far as I am concerned, therefore, all attention must be paid to this. However, I share the concerns about nuclear commissions and the corresponding dividends payments. I, too, feel that we should be careful about this because the amounts involved are much higher than the amounts we are talking about today. Let's get that straight. Hence my appeal once again to focus on the future of our energy landscape and on nuclear decommissioning, an immense challenge that society must not bear.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u10	Mr Ravyts, I will be brief. The point is that you do not express your opinion on it. You're standing there looking, and you think that's normal. I can't decide anything else. You say nothing about 2 billion usury gains being made at the expense of consumers, families, SMEs and the self-employed, and that the State has only skimmed a small part of it. That is the point, and you are not expressing your opinion on it. Then I conclude that you are on the side of ENGIE Electrabel. You say, "Okay, the law is like this." I'm saying that law isn't okay. You know what is going on in committee, Mr Ravyts: we can only put forward a limited number of priority proposals. I would prefer the parties that are now in the government to have at least three, and probably four, who have always found the repartition contributions to be far too low than to make work of it. Then there's a majority for it and that's good. If I suggest that, I still have to see when I get it on the agenda and there is little chance. Perhaps we will, but at least I would prefer to place the ball in the camp of the parties that have always found it far too low, as Mr Verduyckt has just admitted. That's all I have to say.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u11	Mr Warmoes, it has to do with a certain modesty. It's about the amount of the repartition fee. You add the operator's billion-dollar gain, but today it's about the amount of the repartition fee. I say to you in all modesty that I am technically unable to assess whether this is high enough. You obviously are, because you say it's too low in relation to usury profits. You're making an intent process and you're blaming me for not making ideological intentional processes here. No, I don't. I'm a modest boy, not you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u12	Modesty graces man, Mr Ravyts. I'm modest, too. It's not about intentional processes at all, it's about the numbers. I've given you more than enough numbers. I have here, if you like, the whole table, year a year, of how much repartition fee was collected. I'm just comparing numbers, which is a purely mathematical issue, not an intention process. I don't think that's normal, that's all.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u13	Madam Chair, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are taking this bill's opportunity to inject another reminder shot. First of all, minister, we remind you that time is running out and concerns are growing. In November, the CRM auction was opened. In addition, the government's appointment clause on the release of nuclear power is very close. The green light of the European Commission seems to be waiting. We do not dare to imagine the scenario of a negative opinion on his part towards your CRM, so you would be prevented from implementing it. Our security of supply would then be put at risk, with consequences for our businesses and citizens, but also for the country's credibility. This bill also provides us with the opportunity to recall that you have raised - sometimes overly - the release of nuclear energy as a trophy, even despite the principles that, as an environmentalist, should be dear to you. Indeed, we know that the decision to stop nuclear power has the effect of significantly increasing CO2 emissions. I am not the only one to say this, since German specialists – some of whom were initially antinuclear – have reviewed their judgement in order to protect the climate. To do without nuclear power and to have to build and operate gas-fired power plants would lead to a marked increase in these emissions, even though the European Union and therefore Belgium have set themselves very ambitious targets in this area – which we obviously welcome. However, it is an ecological aberration. Finally, the third reminder is to share with you our concerns about the conclusion of a new report on burden sharing. Almost on the eve of COP26, the emergency is there. We therefore allow ourselves to recall these essential aspects, even though we know that the draft discussed at the moment does not include them. Nevertheless, we believe that it is essential to put more emphasis on these points.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u14	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I shall be brief. My DeFI group will abstain on this bill for the following reasons. You have detailed, Madam Minister, the total amount of the allocation contribution, which, after applying the legal degression calculated on the volume of production, amounts to EUR 72.8 million for the year 2020, to be distributed among the nuclear operators. Mrs Marghem, your predecessor in this position, had explained in detail the history of this allocation contribution, which it can be seen that it has gradually decreased significantly, with operators being taxed fairly advantageously, and recalling that the method of calculating it remains rather opaque. It should also be noted that, at the same time, we have learned that the operator would have paid large dividends to his parent company, which may mortgage the means available to proceed with the dismantling of nuclear power plants, because we are still in this hypothesis, despite an essential momentum in the fall of 2021 linked to the assessment of our security of energy supply. That is why, Madam Minister, I insist that we ensure that this provision can increase substantially in the future, because the cost of dismantling power plants and storing nuclear waste will be considerable. DeFI MPs are therefore abstaining from this bill because we believe that the arbitrations carried out by CREG at DG Energy lack transparency. We are of the view, as noted in the report, to ensure that a mechanism is maintained for the correct taxation of nuclear power plants in the light of the operator's profits.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u15	I would like to reply to Mrs Matz on the production of CO2 from gas-fired power plants. I believe that, indeed, very famous people, such as Mr van Ypersele, have questioned the CO2 impact of the closure of nuclear power plants. We have asked the Federal Office of the Plan for the possible maintenance of two nuclear power plants in Belgium. Calculations showed that this CO2 incidence was very low. I meant that CO2 emissions are capped under a European Emissions Trading System (ETS). Globally, Europe will not produce more CO2 without nuclear power plants. It is important to know that, in the end, by having high-tech gas power plants at home, we are competing, in terms of CO2 production, with coal-fired power plants, for example; and that in total, we are not going to produce more CO2, but in total, in Europe, we are going to produce less dust. Might as well have high-tech power plants that will, in the future, be adapted to the combustion of synthetic gas. I think this is the future, and the minister is moving in the right direction. Thank you, Madam President. As an engineer, I am sensitive to this argument, and I wanted to clarify things.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u16	Madam President, I will be brief because I do not want to speak in a debate that I have not attended since it began. I have therefore not had the opportunity to hear Mr Warmoes' report, and I have only heard the end of his brilliant speech. I would just like to look back on what Mr Vicar has just said, of which I obviously respect the professional quality of an engineer. We still have to remember – but I do not know if Mr Vicar was already a parliamentarian at the time – the interparliamentary resolution taken, together with the parliaments of the other levels of power, under the previous legislature, under the impetus of one of our own, Mr Damien Thiéry, who is no longer with us. It has been titrated in a very ambitious way, since it has been reviewed several times. It focused on the efforts that Belgium wished to ask Europe to achieve a 55% reduction in greenhouse gases by 2030 when the resolution was last amended. This means that Belgium was really embarking on this very ambitious path. However, I like your calculations on the European plate. But, you know, the calculations and the numbers, we make them say anything we want. I see very well how you finally calculate the CO2 emissions by bouncing on Mrs Matz's intervention. But I'm absolutely sorry: from the moment you want to reduce CO2, you have to use assets that don't produce them. So you have to eliminate the assets that produce CO2 by burning fossils. I don't have to explain it to you. I believe that there is an obvious contradiction, which is noted by some, and that I also note, between the ambitious desire expressed by this interparliamentary resolution of Belgium to achieve very high levels of CO2 reduction and the fact that it is currently deciding to replace the entire nuclear fleet with assets and infrastructure that will burn gas, which is fossil matter, and thus create CO2.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u17	Mrs Marghem, thank you for your clarification. Mr Vicar, you referred to the figures from the Federal Planning Office. Let me remind you that, according to him, the extension of the two most recent power plants would avoid the emission of 4.4 million tonnes of CO2, in 2030, in Belgium, that the increase resulting from the non-extension of two reactors would correspond to about 3.7% of Belgian emissions in 2018, 3.9% in 2025, which is relatively significant. You can't say that it doesn't change anything, that you take the same things back and start again. At some point, intellectual honesty is required. You have decided that it is necessary to shut down the power plants in order to combat the increase in CO2 emissions. There is no procrastination to have on this subject. We regret, as far as we are concerned, that the issue has become almost ideological and that there is at the same time an objective to which you are certainly sensitive as an environmentalist. But it must be noted that the decisions are contradictory. This is not the first time this has happened. Nor are we the first to highlight this contradiction.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u18	Madam President, a number of the statements are related to the draft before us, but a number of the statements have nothing to do with the draft before us. Today there is a confirmation of a royal decision that sets out the repartition contribution, i.e. the contribution the nuclear operators pay as a share to share the profits they generate from a number of nuclear power plants with the government. It concerns in particular those plants whose service life has not been extended, i.e. Objective 3, Objective 4, Tihange 2 and Tihange 3. That core operators contributed to this country's budget was first introduced by Mr Magnette when he was Minister of Energy. He has provided the first legislation for that contribution. That had been put on the table before, at the time of the government in 2003. The first legislative initiative came in 2009. The following initiative was taken, among other things, by Mr Wathelet. He too took an initiative in connection with the extension of Tihange 1. My predecessor, Mrs Marghem, has also taken initiatives in this regard. It is a broad political consensus in this country that the profits generated from the nuclear power plants built in our country and which have been written off has been shared with the state. That always leads to debate. Is it too much? Is it too little? Is it transparent? Isn't it transparent? We have had that debate in committee and here too. However, the method of calculation has been established. The CREG has applied this method, leading to a result. That was made in a royal decree. Since this is a power that cannot be delegated to the King because it is a reserved power of the legislator, KB must be presented here for ratification. That's what's in store here. That is what the debate is about today, with all the questions that can be asked, with all the monitoring that can be carried out. That is up to the institutions in this country. Then the debate has focused on a number of other aspects. I heard words like "your CRM", "nuclear exit", "a trophy", "burden sharing", etc. I will make a few remarks. I have indicated in committee, with regard to the investment support mechanism, that I have met Commissioner Vestager twice to discuss it and that this decision is imminent. She's imminent! I have confirmed to the committee responsible in this Parliament that a decision will be taken before the first auction is organised. In any case, five of our nuclear units will close because they are too old and require large investments that will not be profitable. Whether it was the minister or any other departmental official, that decision should have been made. Our security of supply is essential. That is why, a year ago in this House, the CRM resolution was voted unanimously. No one wants to take any risk with security of supply. Yes, we will probably need a certain amount of gas power plants. What is not right is Mrs Marghem's statement that all nuclear capacity will be replaced by gas-fired power plants. Our current capacity is 6 GW. On several occasions, I have explained to the government and Parliament at the time of the MRC discussions that the new capacity in the first auction involving gas-fired power plants will be 2.3 GW. Why? Because we rely on technologies that don't emit CO2. I have therefore done everything possible to limit the country's fossil capacity as much as possible. It is not true to say that all nuclear capacity will be replaced by fossil capacity. At the same time, we have introduced a sustainability clause to cement the release of fossil fuels. In addition, this government is trying to increase renewable energies, including wind energy in the North Sea. That debate may of course be held, but it is not stricto sensu what is going on here. Today it is about how the profits of nuclear power stations are shared between the operator on the one hand and the Belgian State on the other. Of course, it is always important to look ahead, especially on a day like today. Today, the European Commission has given the green light to the Belgian relaunch plan. 5 billion for our federal government and for the regions in our country to set us on course for a sustainable and prosperous Belgium. It also focuses on renewable energy, on the one hand, and on decarbonising the CRM, on the other. Bringing our country on course for renewable energy in the energy transition is the green acceleration that this government is putting in place. Looking ahead also means, as Mr Verduyckt and Mr De Smet have pointed out, paying attention to the other yard that is waiting for us.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u19	There is another project awaiting us: the dismantling, storage and management of nuclear waste. What do we do with our nuclear waste? How long, how and where will we store it and what is the cost? Who's gonna pay for that? After all, it's about billions. That is a dossier with which I will first come to the government and then to Parliament. This government will have to guarantee security for the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u20	Madam President, I have to react because I obviously cannot agree with what has just been said. Any minister of energy would try, try and try to ensure that our production fleet has a minimum of independence from neighbouring countries that can provide us with electricity at certain times and a minimum of efficiency in the production fleet, i.e. have efficient power plants capable of producing the best electricity in a set of electric mixes that allow us to remain sober in CO2 emissions compared to our environment. Any minister of energy would do that and any government agreement would indicate that. But, in this case, what is wrong is that the CRM was originally intended precisely to have gas units, but not only. Indeed, the technologically neutral CRM is aimed at all energies, including, if possible in this country, nuclear energy, precisely with the aim of having this electric mix that I have just spoken of. So at the beginning, it was for a little gas and a little flexibility. Either, the minister makes it clear right now, by not mixing in her speech the facts and the elements of the speech, that, in reality, she already knows that the government wants at least two nuclear power plants to remain open - at least things are clear and transparent and we can debate them - either, she continues to say that in any case, we are going to close five, in which case you have at least 4.5 GW of power that are going to leave our electric mix and that, of course, cannot be replaced by 2.3 GW of gas. It is therefore that there is a twist somewhere and we should be able to discuss this twist in an open and transparent way, which is not the case, with a monitoring to be carried out by the minister and which is provided for in the government agreement on page 57: monitoring of security of supply and prices. For months, we have been asking in committee that this monitoring take place and I believe that the minister's intention is not to set it up. At least we haven't seen the color yet. She only wants to come and present it in November so that she can say whether there is a contingency or not with regard to security of supply at that time. But you can't have an unexpected chance if you don't have a way to test what you can expect or what's unexpected. That's the whole reason for this monitoring. It is for this reason that there is a mixture that is problematic, that is not transparent between the facts and the discourse. And of course I cannot agree with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u21	Madam President, I am not going to interfere in the CRM debate, which is a different debate. Madam Secretary, I would like to correct something first. You say that the CRM resolution was adopted unanimously here. No, PVDA-PTB voted against. It's not the first time you've ignored us and you've been talking about roombreed. I understand that we are the strange duck in the bite and that this may be disturbing because we do not give in to the lobbying work of ENGIE Electrabel and others. So I would remind you that we voted against that resolution. Referring to the small debate between Mr Ravyts and myself, you said that any minister would approve this repartition contribution. That is actually true, because the existing law is being applied here, and that is the law that was adopted in the Michel government, in which Mrs Marghem was Minister for Energy. Now, however, you are the Minister of Energy and there is a new government. My question then is whether you will amend that law now. Things are different now. You are fully competent for Energy and you can change the law to obtain a higher repartition fee. After all, you and your party have always said that this contribution is far too low. That is my question to you, Madam Secretary. I have already asked that question in committee, but I have not received an answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u22	Madam President, I do not know if the Minister will take the floor, but Mrs Marghem's remarks are of course relevant. I call on the Minister to replicate this, because I am very interested in her answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u23	Madam President, in committee, in internal and external communication, both inside and outside Parliament, I have always said that I am Minister for the entire coalition agreement. I'm underlining the entire coalition agreement. In that coalition agreement, it has been decided that we will fully implement the law of 2003, a law that is twenty years old. We will not take any risks in this respect, either with security of supply or with affordability of prices. The first auction ends on 31 October. An assessment of security of supply in our country will therefore be carried out by November at the latest. If a problem occurs unexpectedly, the necessary measures will be taken. According to the coalition agreement, anything can be discussed. I am the Minister for Energy who will not take any risk with security of supply, nor with its affordability. That's why we're working on three lines. In committee, I've already shown slides with the timing. The blue line is security of supply, the red line is affordability and the green line is the transition. That's the plan I'm sticking to and that I'm doing. I am implementing the coalition agreement, and that is my answer to it. The observation about monitoring starts an intention process. Apparently, people think I have the intention of doing something or not. My intention is to implement the coalition agreement and all its aspects. I am very clear on that point.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u24	Madam Secretary, of course you would only really alarm the press if you said you were not implementing the coalition agreement. In that sense, you give a little spectacular answer. Rather, it is a convenient way of not responding. In any case, I note that in certain circumstances everything can be reviewed. Did I get it that well?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u25	I was there when the coalition agreement and the chapter on energy were negotiated, so I know very well what it says: we confirm the law on the core exit, we introduce the CRM, after the first auction we make an evaluation and we see if there is an unexpected problem with security of supply. If so, appropriate measures will be taken, examples of which are given. That's what we agreed on, and that's what I'm doing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u26	Can I draw your attention to the fact that the non-closure of nuclear power stations remains an option?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u27	Mr De Roover, we have discussed this issue on several occasions. The choice is to implement the law of 2003, which is 20 years old, in its entirety. Contrary to the years before my ministerial position when the government's attitude was characterised by halt and go and ambiguity, the government has now clearly stated that it would evaluate what is being decided. That happens in November.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u28	In other words, you always refer to the coalition agreement, but do you think it is still possible to extend the life of nuclear power stations at the time of that evaluation? Is that technically possible? You say that this will be evaluated by then, which means that all possibilities are still open. A number of signals indicate that it will not be so obvious at the time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u29	It is a pity that Mr Wollants is not here because he asked me the same questions and knows the file. There is indeed that possibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u30	Madam President, I was out of the question, but I realize that it becomes "the" subject, basically. Of course, it is important to hear the Minister further clarify nuclear intentions. This sometimes lacked some clarity, but we still have the impression that the ideological aspect has given way to a more credible pragmatism and realism, especially in relation to the principles to which you are attached. We are making progress in this debate even if we do not yet know exactly what is in it and what is in it. However, the impression of a strong hesitation dominates: certainties seem shaken. In any case, it is of a nature to reassure us a little as to the number of objectives to be achieved at the same time. For this to happen, it is necessary to reconcile different principles which are not easily conciliatable. Nevertheless, we hope. We find that November is a late date for this plan and these alternatives that you want to put in place. Parliament has the right to request a more regular follow-up of the various steps you are taking to achieve this exit from nuclear power and to put into practice the various energy mixes that you intend to set up. At least my off-the-spot points will have had the merit of creating a debate here, which is healthy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u31	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u32	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2003/3) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2003/3) The bill has three articles. The draft law has 3 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u33	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u34	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mr Warmoes. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u35	Madam President, in view of the extensive agenda for this plenary session, I will try to be brief. There is now a draft law for the ratification of three royal decisions on social energy tariffs. Those royal decrees must be ratified within 12 months of their entry into force, so that the relevant decisions are not deemed to have had any effect. Article 2 of the draft law concerns the Royal Decree of 16 June 2020 amending the Royal Decree of 29 March 2012. The Royal Decree of 22 December 2020 is incorporated in Article 3. The Royal Decree of 28 January 2021 is incorporated in Article 4. The Royal Decree of 16 June 2020 adapts a number of definitions and also makes some adjustments to the Ministerial Decree of 30 March 2007 and entered into force on 1 July 2020. As I said, it must be ratified within the year. That is why this draft law obtained urgency in the previous plenary session, so that it is on the agenda for plenary today, even though it was only adopted yesterday in the committee meeting. The Royal Decrees of 22 December 2020 and 28 January 2021 concern the temporary extension of the social energy tariff target group of rightholders. It is a government decision taken within the framework of the corona measures. One of the reasons for this is that one in five households has difficulties with the payment of energy bills, which is not strictly covid-related. By extending the target group entitled to the social tariff, more families and individuals can benefit from it. Before enlargement, 424,943 families were entitled, after enlargement, i.e. after the royal decrees, to 871,301 families, about a doubling. It is a temporary measure, which runs from 1 February to 31 December 2021. The Royal Decree of 22 December 2020 lays down the financing and the Royal Decree of 28 January 2021 determines the target audience. The allocation of the social energy tariff is automatic by charging data from the Crossroads Bank of Social Security. There has, of course, been a discussion in committee. There is general support for this bill and these measures, i.e. extending the right holders to the social tariff. A number of comments have been made. Mr Wollants spoke about the division of powers on the social energy tariff between the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Minister for Energy. The Secretary of State for Consumer Affairs can be added to that. Madam Secretary of State said that this cooperation is going well. Mr Wollants argued that full responsibility for social energy tariffs should rest with the Minister for Energy. A number of colleagues have raised questions or raised concerns about the cost of that measure and whether it is provided for in the funds. The Minister replied that this is indeed the case and that the current budgets should be sufficient for this and that the cost will be monitored by the CREG. Furthermore, a number of members expressed the wish that the social tariff which is a temporary measure would continue to exist beyond 31 December 2021. This is also a government priority in the framework of the coalition agreement, with the reform of the Social Energy Fund. The result of the vote was quite simple. All articles and also the draft law itself have been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u36	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, with this draft law, Parliament is in fact ratifying three KBs relating to social energy tariffs. Two of the three RBs concern the temporary extension of the target group eligible for the social tariff from 1 February. The government announced in December that it would allocate EUR 176 million for this purpose. The changeover is simple for new beneficiaries. They remain customers with their supplier who applies the social rate instead of the commercial rate for the duration provided by the government. However, it is a temporary measure. At the end of this period, they will switch to the commercial tariff again unless, of course, the measure is extended. That all makes sense. Madam Minister, it was important that the financing of this enlargement was not through the energy bill but from the general public funds. We also supported this politically when the royal decisions were taken in December and January. The social rate is no longer exclusively for people with a certain status, it is now linked to income. That's a good thing, but one swallow doesn't make spring, no matter how big or important that swallow may be. That half a million families, often single-parent families, will see his energy bill rise again. Their financial situation will not necessarily have improved. Energy poverty remains a structural problem, even after the covid crisis. Let us hope that the coronavirus will finally leave this area. But also after that, energy poverty remains a very important issue, including for my party. You have included in the government agreement that you will look at and reform the issue of social energy tariffs. Of course, we still have a little patience to do so. I hope you're working on it. We paid a lot of attention to this last year in committee. There are several slopes, but I will not go into them in this plenary. Hopefully that will come in the next few months. Meanwhile, there is also the coronacharter that you and your colleagues Dermagne and De Bleeker have arranged with the energy suppliers. We are talking about more flexible payment plans. That was also on the radar in May, when that charter was signed. It was also, of course, a good thing that energy suppliers - electricity and gas suppliers - are apparently very willing to support customers and help them through this critical period by allowing flexibility and appropriate payment conditions. I hope, Madam Minister, that this extension of the target group as a one-off measure will not end, but that you will be able, through this legislature, to strengthen the social pricing system in a structural way. Of course, we will be enthusiastically approving this draft law which endorses the royal decrees.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u37	Madam President, I can repeat myself somewhat. With this draft law, we endorse three royal decisions on social energy tariffs. The most important royal decision is that of 28 January 2021, which is the most recent, as it significantly increases the target audience of people entitled to the social tariff. Since a few months, since 1 February 2021, people entitled to an increased concession have now also been entitled to the social energy tariff. We have, of course, welcomed this from the outset, so as soon as the measure was announced. After all, it is a disgrace that in our country an estimated one in five families, as I mentioned earlier, live in energy poverty. The temporary extension of the social energy tariff is therefore a first good step for us, but unfortunately it is not enough. The extension of the social tariff is temporary. In the past, the Minister indicated that she wanted to carry out a thorough reform of the social energy funds. That is also stated in the coalition agreement and in its policy statement. I have to admit that she does speak somewhat cryptically in this, namely 'give more power to social energy policy', by quoting 'coordinating and strengthening the various social energy funds, gas, electricity and heating'. Especially the word "enhancing" interests us here. We are very much looking forward to that. Madam Minister, unless I have not listened carefully, you have not explained much about this in committee. Maybe you can do that here, especially about how far you stand with your plans. Hopefully, this can be settled before 31 December 2021, so that no step is taken back on 31 December 2021 or on 1 January 2022. The other two Royal Decrees concern rather technical adaptations of definitions and terminology used in the legislation, in order to make them consistent. They also concern the fixing of the amounts for the protected customers fund, which is responsible for the financing of social energy tariffs. We will, of course, vote in favour of the draft law before us, as in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u38	Anyone else want to speak?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u39	Madam President, this draft is apparently creating less debate than the previous one, although it is very important. A Belgian out of five has trouble paying the energy bill. That is a figure that has been known for a long time and is brought forward annually by the King Baudouin Foundation. It was a very explicit choice of this government to provide an answer, especially in corona times. After all, people have been able to work less or not at all and there have been many sick people. As a result, many people were faced with a decline in their income. That is why, although temporarily, we are expanding the social tariff. The target group is being widened and anyone entitled to the increased benefit is now also entitled to the social tariff. This means that twice as many people can enjoy the social rate. Since May, this was actually established on the invoice. We have taken the necessary steps with regard to the energy suppliers and they have committed themselves to making this immediately visible on the advance invoice. Parliament will always have a partner for me to pursue a decisive and efficient social energy policy, just before the one Belgian out of five who is struggling to pay the energy bill today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u40	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u41	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2045/1) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2045/1) The bill has five articles. The draft law contains 5 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u42	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u43	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Els Van Hoof, Jan Briers, Samuel Cogolati, Wouter De Vriendt.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u44	The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1842/4) The text adopted by the Committee is the basis for the discussion (Rgt 85, 4) (1842/4) The discussion is open. The meeting's open. The rapporteur was Mr Samuel Cogolati, who referred to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u45	Madam President, the person concerned by the resolution, Mr Rusesabagina, has become known worldwide as the hero of Hôtel des Mille Collines. We know the story. In 1994, 1,200 people were saved from a terrible genocide at the Sabena Hotel, as any genocide is terrible. The Hollywood film Hotel Rwanda has made that story world-famous. Mr. Rusesabagina was placed there as the Rwandan Oscar Schindler. Historical figures are usually filmed, but in the meantime the time has not stopped for the person concerned. He is politically committed in much more difficult circumstances than those in which we need to shape our commitment. He became a member of the opposition party in exile after the civil war. This means, in the situation typical of Rwanda, that people always end up in situations which may be less one-sided than they usually do from a distance. The case is complex. It is not appropriate for us to replace tribunals. It is all too often, to my mind, that we believe that our Committee on External Relations is a kind of substitute court, which we must judge because we can do better. There's actually some kind of left-wing colonial thinking behind it sometimes. We are the ones who are on the moral picture that cannot be achieved on the ground. I have said on several occasions that it is my belief that we should be modest in this. Modesty is one thing, looking away is another. The search for a balance between these two is the challenge facing our Committee on External Relations. She has trouble finding the right balance. In a first version, we have, in our opinion, been less committed to ensuring fair and correct administration of justice or as a public prosecutor. We felt that we could intervene in this matter in a judgmental and judgmental manner. I do not feel called for this, nor do my group. That is why we initially had reservations about the texts that were tabled, because we were perhaps misjudging our role as a Parliament. Fortunately, a parliamentary process also has its value. That was also the case in the debate in committee, where we saw a movement in the right direction. That is a direction in which we do not act as an alternative court or as those who demand or ask for what do we have to demand or who try to use their authority to ensure that the person concerned is properly and in accordance with the normal rules of serious justice, without necessarily having to take a stand immediately. For the sake of clarity, as we should not take the place of courts, neither should we be indifferent to situations such as these, particularly because we have historical links with the events there. After all, this also creates a specific, not responsibility, but involvement in the matter. That is the least that can be said. If we adopt this resolution, it is clear in that context that we are trying to use our authority to ensure that justice is better and more correct than we would if we did not give our opinion on it. Ladies and gentlemen, that immediately prompts me to request that, in these and similar cases, our credibility be fully respected and protected by distinguishing between, on the one hand, those who ask for justice to be properly spoken, a right which is fundamental and which everyone should be able to invoke and, on the other hand, to stand up as a prosecutor or as a lawyer. That too is not the role we have to play. The changes or changes in the atmosphere that have taken place in this sense means that we fully agree with the resolution. For us this is also the way in which, in future, we must be modest and cautious, but without indifference in similar matters, especially when there is a historical context, which is undoubtedly involved in this case. I would also like to thank my fellow Members for the discussion that has taken place in this resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u46	Madam President, I would like to respond briefly to Mr De Roover's speech. First of all, thank you for your support for the resolution. I think it is an interesting discussion, but I hope we can still be a Parliament that sometimes judges itself as a lawyer or as a prosecutor, as long as it is based on a number of standards and values that we consider important, or on international law or on human rights, which are contained in texts that have been approved by this Parliament as well. I believe that we, as a country and as a Parliament, should be able to defend human rights and that we should be able to judge cases where human rights are violated. That's what happens here. But I would also like to draw the parallel with many other initiatives we are taking here and also supported by you. When it comes to protesting against the persecution of the Jezidi or the way in which some Catalan politicians are treated in Spain, you have always been the one suing this in the past. You often invoke international law and human rights. In fact, the same thing is happening here. I want to draw it on bottles. Moralism has a negative side, and you used the word with that negative connotation, but is it so bad to be moralistic, provided, of course, that moralism is based on a number of legal standards, international law and human rights? As far as Rwanda is concerned, I do not think that we should be muzzled to make a statement on events in Rwanda because of the historic role we have played in the past. It is true that it requires a certain sensitivity on our part, which is not the same as caution or being slowed down because of the role we have played. That there should always be a certain degree of caution, so I would like to follow, but let us muzzle, I certainly do not want to go that far.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u47	I think there are two possibilities. There is reason here, firstly, to deepen our differences theoretically and, secondly, to make those differences less gaping than they are in a concrete situation. I have a few comments to make. Before judging, one must be quite sure that one has solid information. I do not wish to question the goodwill and generosity of my colleague, but there has been no preliminary analysis of all the elements of the dossier, because we do not have them. In my view, there are more elements than those taken into account in the resolution. This modesty just strengthens the power with which we can try to weigh on the basic right. That's a proper administration of justice. It seems to me that we are better informed about the events in Catalonia, that we know this dossier more thoroughly than, for example, this dossier. That is why, especially in the context of the European Union, as is also happening with the events in Hungary, we are able to change our standards and to change our behaviour. In this respect, there is a difference in nuance between our two approaches to these issues in their entirety, but I agree with you. It's not a matter of getting muzzled. That is why we support the resolution. We believe that we can raise our voices here, but just at that level that is appropriate to the role that the Chamber should play. There is still the separation of powers in this country. It is, of course, rather strong that we should break it when it comes to matters, I repeat, where we may be less aware of whether we are so convinced that we know all the elements of justice. In this sense, it seems to me that our voice can be all the more powerful if we do not take a preliminaries view of the outcome of justice. But here, in this case, there are more than enough elements to be concerned about that, that is certainly true. It is not for me, nor will I be tempted to place myself in the role of a right judge. It is up to us to hope, to expect and to express the expectation that correct judges will make a ruling in this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u48	In fact, we always rely on sources before making a ruling with Parliament. We can give those sources a valuation, but that happens regularly. There are often two sides to a story. We can now discuss the reliability of these sources. We are not going to do that, but allow me to confine myself to quoting a number of human rights organisations that provide credible information to our Parliament, as well as to other Parliaments when it comes to the Rusesabagina case, in order to make certain statements. That is actually what we are doing with the Chamber today, and this is certainly not so exceptional. There are reasons to believe that the rights of the defence have been violated here, that the assistance that could normally be expected for a accused person has not been and is not being honored. Certainly there is the involvement of our country, which is why we are effectively calling the alarm bell here. Unfortunately, the story is not over yet, we will continue to follow it over the next few weeks and months.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u49	Madam President, Mr De Roover, this resolution is not about guilt or innocence but about rights and justice. We are not acting as judges here either, nor have we done so for Professor Djalali, for which your party had expressed its support. In this case, too, we do not have access to the area to conduct research. In this sense, the situation is similar, particularly when it comes to the violation of international conventions. This is about civil and political rights that are not respected. As a Parliament, we must act. Human rights are global and universal and it is up to the parliaments to use their soft powers to ensure that international treaties are respected. If they are violated, then we in Parliament would like to point that out. That is what we have done with this resolution. The European Parliament has even been in favour of a condemnation. There are also several European and American bar associations who have been in favour of us pointing out that the rights of the defence have been violated. That is what we are referring to, and that is what we are referring to the Rwandan state. The United Nations Human Rights Council also makes it very clear in its universal periodic reporting that Rwanda is known for its political processes. Rwanda is also the scene of forced disappearances and arbitrary detentions. That is also what the country is condemned for in the human rights report. Rwanda is also receiving recommendations in this regard. This example, with Paul Rusesabagina, is actually a typical example that clearly shows that the right to defence is being violated and that there is no chance of a fair trial. That's what we're talking about here, not guilt or innocence. We're not a court of law. We merely point out that this is not a question of law and justice, to which every citizen is entitled under international treaties.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u50	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this motion for a resolution, which calls on the government to return to Belgium the Belgian Rwandan Paul Rusesabagina, who was illegally arrested by Rwanda in 2020, and which calls on Rwanda to respect international law in respect of this person in particular, and also in respect of dissidents in general, deserves attention. As Mr De Roover has already said, Paul Rusesabagina is known for his film Hotel Rwanda, in which he explains how, with his Hôtel des Mille Collines in Kigali during the Rwandan genocide in the 1990s, he offered Tutsis and moderate Hutu's protection against the mass murders that took place at that time. He also had Belgian nationality since 1999, spent some time in the United States and received the Presidential Medal of Freedom from then President Bush at a certain time in 2005. Rusesabagina has been on trial for terror and rebellion in Rwanda since February because of a number of attacks committed by the armed militia FLN, the National Liberation Front, which is associated with his opposition group, the Rwandan Movement for Democratic Change. Rusesabagina never put up with the idea that he supported the FLN military operations. In a video message he said that more than political struggle was needed to change Rwanda. The essence of the whole matter is that the person concerned has been illegally kidnapped and arrested, is in critical medical condition, and that the rights of defence and a fair trial have been violated. Despite our party's view that the international rules of law on arrests and detentions are important and that we condemn them if they are violated by the Rwandan Government, we also need a critical and nuanced look at the resolution as such. The majority amendments that have been tabled have somewhat nuanced a number of cases, and we certainly do not dispute that Paul Rusesabagina has disappeared and been arrested in Kigali in obscure circumstances, not as a result of an international extradition treaty or under the supervision of an independent court. There is no doubt that he is in a poor medical condition. Of course, like everyone else, he has the right to a fair trial, which is, of course, very doubtful in a country like Rwanda. What is also clear, however, is that Rusesabagina, as mentioned, bears responsibility for the attacks committed in Rwanda by the FLN, which is linked to the opposition group Movement for Democratic Change. He cannot therefore avoid any responsibility. That is the nuance that we have brought into the debate in committee and which, of course, we are repeating now. In those attacks, nine people were killed, including two children. All acts of terrorism, committed by any democratic opponent or human rights activist, are severely condemned, as are abuses committed by Rwanda itself. This does not, of course, condone the violation of the principles of lawful arrest, detention or a fair trial. What our group did object to throughout the debate is the question of whether Rusesabagina should be repatriated to Belgium, as requested in the resolution. In doing so, we are moving on to our attitude towards, for example, Belgian IS terrorists. Are we not risking a precedent here, by including it in the resolution before us as such? In our view, we support the part of the resolution that deals with the right to a fair trial and defence, but without repatriation. We take this view from the reasoning that he has committed acts of terror in Rwanda and must stand trial there as a Rwandan citizen. That does not, of course, alter the fact that the current government and we, Parliament, must insist on a fair trial. We must do so diplomatically and in all other ways. The same argument is used, for example, to allow the IS terrorists to stand trial in Iraq and Syria, because it is also there, in that country, that the crimes were committed and therefore they must be tried there as well. Since the resolution before us calls not only for the fair trial but also for the return to Belgium, we abstained in the final vote in committee, which we will also do in the final vote on the proposal in plenary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u51	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, through this resolution, we address two important points of our foreign policy, namely the defence of human rights and the importance of our consular assistance for all Belgians who are temporarily staying or living abroad. First, the defence of human rights is part of the backbone of our country's foreign policy. Our Minister of Foreign Affairs, Sophie Wilmès, is very attentive. On the one hand, we hear about human rights in their generalities. I am thinking of the fight against the death penalty or the rights of women who are largely violated in areas of conflict – Afghanistan for example, for which I have tabled a motion for a resolution. On the other hand, we are talking about human rights for specific cases, the treatment of which must be done in discretion. This is always a guarantee of efficiency. Human rights must retain their universal nature and not be interpreted according to cultural prisms. I am thinking in particular of freedom of expression, family rights and women's rights. We know that this is a fight that liberal democracies will have to continue to fight in the years to come, through various forums and cenacles. Of some of these fine debates, we get positive advances or signals. Sometimes, unfortunately, patience is not rewarded. We must never forget that, through the defence of human rights, the fight against impunity is a fundamental fight. Victims need justice and truth. The second important point concerns consular assistance. As some have discovered or rediscovered during the covid-19 crisis, we have seen the importance of consular assistance to our fellow citizens abroad. This assistance – administrative for the simpler and wider cases for more difficult situations – is a service rendered by the Department of Foreign Affairs and its representatives on the spot. We are congratulated for the quality of this during the crisis of the Covid-19. The professionalism of our consuls and diplomats has been praised, and I welcome it. Let us never hesitate to stress the quality of their work, as they invest in this mission. Madam President, a trial began on 17 February in Rwanda and is still ongoing. Paul Rusesabagina has Belgian nationality. That is why we need to care about his medical and judicial fate. It has been done so far and I have no doubt that tomorrow it will be the same for him as for all Belgians in the world who would need it. We must remain vigilant and cautious in our expression in the name of the separation of powers. Judicial proceedings are under way and the Government cannot rule on their outcome. Belgium must continue to monitor, through its Embassy in Rwanda, the trial against Mr. Rusesabagina in Kigali and to provide him with consular assistance. Belgium must continue to press the Rwandan authorities to ensure that Mr. Rusesabagina enjoys a fair, fair and public trial before a competent, independent and impartial tribunal applying international human rights standards. And once all the legal proceedings have been completed, we will be able to take stock of this specific case again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u52	Madam President, my colleague Paul Rusesabagina is known as a war hero from the Rwandan genocide. He's on trial in Kigali for terrorism. Mrs Ponthier, I find it strange that you say that he is a terrorist and compares him to a Foreign Terrorist Fighter, which has not been proven at all. That's what the trial's about. You say that there is therefore no repatriation possible, whereas this is disputed by the party of Rusesabagina. Besides, the FNL is part of another party, but that is an internal political discussion in Rwanda, so we are not expressing our opinion. What has happened and, above all, what has not happened in this process is worrying. Last week a life sentence was applied for on the basis of this show trial. Rusesabagina didn't take part in it because he didn't think it made any sense anymore. This is an accumulation of serious human rights violations, of which I can give a brief anthology, which has already been cited by international bodies. I will not list them all, but they include the European Parliament, members of the Congress of the United States, important barfederations and international human rights organisations. First of all, the arrest was illegal. After all, it was not based on extradition and did not take place under the supervision of a court or with an international arrest mandate. Besides, it was a long time ago unknown where he was. For several days he was incommunicado. There are also statements that he was tortured during that period. As a blow to the head, the Rwandan Minister of Justice told Al Jazeera that Mr Rusesabagina had been set up. They paid for the flight that took him to Kigali without him knowing. They don't call that kidnapping, for them that was facilitating the shipment. However, if we look at the International Convention on the Protection of All Persons from Forced Disappearance, that is entirely in line with that. We can therefore say that this is a forced disappearance, a flagrant violation of the said Treaty. We were talking about the arbitrary arrest and the arrest. His rights of defence are also permanently violated in captivity. One should actually have access to his defence at any time of the trial, from when one is detained, but that has clearly not been the case. In the beginning, he got a lawyer he didn't want. Eventually, he got an Rwandan lawyer. Moreover, his international team of lawyers has absolutely no access to him, even though Minister Wilmès has repeatedly insisted that the Rwandan authorities should monitor him. They respond positively, but they always do the opposite and do not give access. Even more, when documents are exchanged, they are confiscated, so there is no confidentiality between the lawyer and Paul Rusesabagina. The Rwandan authorities simply read the various documents, thereby violating their confidentiality. His defence is therefore actually completely blind, which means that on 12 March she decided not to take part in this sham process anymore. In addition, there are, of course, concerns about his worrying medical condition. Rusesabagina is a cancer survivor and is at risk of strokes. It's been sent through the diplomatic suitcase, but there's still no certainty if that medication ever arrived and what medication he's on today. Recently we found out that he doesn't get three meals a day. He has to survive with his poor medical condition with only one meal of corn and beans a day. It is therefore clear that his physical integrity is being violated at the moment. In fact, it can be said that it is not a fair, just and transparent process. President Kagame has also said in advance that Rusesabagina will pay for his crimes. In Rwanda, therefore, we are guilty as long as the contrary is not proven, and there are precedents. The Belgian Government has already made a great deal of consular efforts to assist Rusesabagina, but they are very few. As I said, Rwanda promises heaven, but presents hell. Silent diplomacy is important, but it has to go beyond that. Today, with the resolution before us, we are also saying loud and clear that this is a bridge too far. I would like to thank colleagues for their support. We are voting today on a forward-looking but also balanced text. We agree with the European Parliament's condemnation of the forced disappearance, illegal extradition and incommunicado detention. Members of the US Congress have already expressed their views on this. We are going a little further than the European resolution, because we say that repatriation must be discussed. When people hear about all the violations that have occurred and the fact that Rusesabagina is a Belgian citizen, I wonder why the matter cannot be raised. We and the government are clearly calling for this. There have been examples in the past, including Mr Guy Theunis. We can be clear that in Belgium we can ensure a much fairer process, on which guilt and innocence are determined. In fact, a Belgian investigation is already under way. For compliance with all rights, it would be better if it could be repatriated. If that were not possible, we should continue to say loud and clear that what is happening today cannot be done. Its physical integrity must be guaranteed and there must be guarantees of a fair trial. Our Minister for Foreign Affairs has also expressed her concern about this. However, we can say that this fits in with a broader issue of human rights violations in Rwanda. That country doesn't need its test piece. The recommendations of the UN Human Rights Council's Universal Periodic Report are actually very poignant. It concerns the non-admission of the Committee for the Prevention of Torture and Other Cruelly Inhuman or Degrading Treatment. It is also about starting investigations into allegations of extrajudicial executions, forced disappearances, arbitrary detention, torture and abuse, as well as prosecuting alleged perpetrators. On all these elements there are allegations regarding the Rwandan state. I think we are sending a strong signal to set this case as an example, not only because Mr Rusesabagina is internationally known, but also because it is a global charge against what is happening today in the Rwandan regime and is unacceptable. "Freedom of fear," as former UN Secretary General Hammerskjöld roughly summarized, is the philosophy of human rights. Today the family and friends of Paul Rusesabagina are very brave, but also afraid to walk alone on the street. I often hear that many Rwandans who stay here no longer dare to talk because of reprisals for family in Rwanda. The reputation of the Rwandan intelligence service is also well known. With this resolution, we also give a voice to those people who no longer dare or can talk. That is the essence of this resolution. This does not make us a judge, but we defend fundamental human rights that are universal and global.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u53	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this resolution calls on the Rwandan authorities to guarantee a fair trial and humane treatment to Mr Rusesabagina, who, in addition to the Rwandan, also has Belgian nationality. The resolution states that it does not rule on the guilt or innocence of the person in question. It therefore refrains from any interference in the course of justice of the sovereign state of Rwanda. A number of amendments were adopted, which our group believes has also improved. We therefore support this resolution because we believe that the principle of non-interference has been respected, which does not mean that we remain neutral or indifferent. We can take a stand and ask the Rwandan state to respect human rights and to grant Mr Russesabeina a fair trial. Those things aren't opposite to each other. We must not be muzzled by what has happened in the past. However, I do think that we have some responsibility in this and that we should also name it. That is why our group has tabled amendments. We believe that the resolution can become even more convincing and balanced, and at the same time less paternalistic towards the State of Rwanda. That is why we are putting these amendments back before this plenary session. The first amendment adds a recital which recognises the disastrous role of the colonisation of Rwanda by Belgium between 1916 and 1962. We know that this colonisation has led to a country that was deeply aware of ethnic tensions and political contradictions, which ultimately resulted in the humanitarian tragedy of the 1994 genocide in which Belgium has once again played a nasty role. We therefore feel it is only reasonable to recognise our own responsibility in this resolution, in which Belgium makes demands on the Rwandan Government. We are not alone in this. In 2019, MEPs Guy Verhofstadt, Hilde Vautmans and Louis Michel wrote a gallery, published in Knack and L'Echo, in which they rightly claim, I quote: "Our country also bears a responsibility in the Rwandan drama. That is why the Belgian Government apologized to the Rwandan people on 7 April 2000 in Kigali. Denying that Belgium has also failed would be an injustice to the Rwandan people. The Rwandans can't carry the trauma alone. It is the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the Rwanda Genocide which, in its final report in December 1997, stated that the Belgian authorities should have acted differently and should have done more to prevent genocide." As I said earlier, giving lessons in democracy and the rule of law to the Rwandan Government without recognizing our own role in the situation may not really convince the government concerned. Hence our first amendment. Furthermore, we must also condemn the catastrophic violence which is still subject not only to Rwanda, but also to the Democratic Republic of Congo and other states in the Great Lakes region today, in order to avoid once again that this resolution is a purely paternalistic rebuke that falls into deaf ears. Hence our second amendment, which also adds a recital, I quote: 'Whereas the Rwandan government, under Kagame, wishes to guarantee its stability in an authoritarian manner and that the Rwandan conflict was exported to East Congo by both the Rwandan army and the armed groups of the opposition, including the FLN, in complete violation of international law.' Finally, we also add a request which reads as follows: 'Parliament recognises the catastrophic situation for the peoples and governments concerned in the Great Lakes region and calls on all actors to end the violence and seek unity through negotiation and democratic dialogue. Unity in the region through a comprehensive peaceful solution to the current wars and conflicts is of course indispensable in order to guarantee respect for democracy and the rule of law in all the states concerned in a stable way." With these additions, we believe that the resolution is becoming even more balanced and less paternalistic. In this way we can improve effectiveness by increasing the chance of a more positive reception by the listeners, which I believe should be the intention of this resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u54	Madam President, our colleague Georges Dallemagne has been following this issue from the beginning. He interviewed the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Justice on several occasions in this regard. He is also in regular contact with Mr. Rusesabagina's daughter. This abduction is a perfectly illegal act, totally unacceptable to a Belgian citizen. This should raise important substantive questions as to the desirability of continuing judicial cooperation with Rwanda, which is committing completely illegal acts such as the one in question. Mr Rusesabagina is a Belgian citizen, I said. We must therefore shoulder our responsibilities in this matter. Our country must ensure that this Belgian citizen can be treated in accordance with international law and law and be vigilant with regard to the fate reserved for him. We are therefore pleased with the motion for a resolution by Mrs Van Hoof et al. to plead for the repatriation of Mr Rusesabagina and, where appropriate, for a judgment before a Belgian court. We regret, however, that, under pressure from some members of the majority, the scope of the original text has been greatly weakened by a multitude of amendments approved by the majority in advance of the committee. We will, however, support this motion for a resolution, continuing to follow this matter closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u55	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the situation of Mr Rusesabagina is very worrying. Human Rights Watch and Amnesty International report serious violations of international law on enforced disappearance, respect for the right to defence and fair trial. The motion for a resolution tabled today by many colleagues, whom I thank, obviously needs to be supported. It is clear that we must be able to defend one of our citizens who is in a country that is violating the fundamental rights of the latter. This applies not only to the diplomacy of our country, but also to us. The Rwandan authorities refuse, for the time being, to explain the reasons and circumstances for the transfer of Paul Rusesabagina to Rwanda, recalling that this was done legally when we all know that his transfer on a private plane was the result of a trap that resulted in his arrest once he arrived on Rwandan territory. Moreover, the Minister of Justice in Rwanda acknowledged that the Rwandan government had financed air transport, claiming that the transfer had been carried out in full legality. Several NGOs had already denounced the enforced disappearance of Mr. Rusesabagina in violation of international law. In the course of his trial, we still cannot guarantee respect for his rights to a fair trial and defence. The Human Rights Watch report of March 2nd showed us that our fears were unfortunately proven. The Rwandan Minister admits that the Rwandan prison authorities intercepted private communications between Mr. Rusesabagina and his lawyers in violation of his due process rights. Our group had been worried about him. I, too, had asked the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mrs Wilmès, about respect for her rights. The Minister assured me that she would do everything possible with the Rwandan authorities to ensure that her rights were respected and that she could consult her files and lawyers in a confidential manner. While some advances have taken place, such as access to a computer or electricity in the cell, they are too late or are not yet advances that allow the person concerned to have a proper trial. This motion for a resolution therefore remains essential for the Belgian Parliament to remain attentive to the defence of the values of the rule of law and to respect for a fair trial for all our citizens. We are particularly pleased to see that the resolution calls for a whole range of measures to be taken by the Belgian diplomatic authorities in order to claim respect for their rights. Recall that an individual's right to consult confidentially with the lawyer of his or her choice is fundamental! It should also be remembered that every incarcerated individual must be treated with dignity and cannot have any physical or moral harm to his person, which could be considered torture or inhuman and degrading treatment! For all these reasons, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we will support this resolution by keeping an eye on its implementation, in support of Mr Rusesabagina.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u56	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over. * * * * * * *
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u57	· 16 - Nabil Boukili cs (1842/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u58	· 17 - Nabil Boukili cs (1842/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u59	· 18 - Nabil Boukili cs (1842/5) * * * * * * *
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u60	The vote on the reserved amendments and on the whole proposal will take place at a later stage. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled and on the whole of the proposal will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u61	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mr Piedboeuf. He shall refer to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u62	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, a law on various provisions is not easy to discuss, because its content is very diverse. There are good things in this bill. It also contains a number of necessary technical adjustments. However, there are also problematic issues. I will focus on this in my speech. It seems to be limited adjustments, but they are worrying about their subtlety. I find them worrying because they are building on a bad trend that was used with the first large legislative package of the Minister of Finance, in particular the programme law of December 2020. I am not talking about tax increases, but I am talking about a measure whereby, in spite of a destructive advice from the GBA, it was decided that banks should pass on bank accounts balances to the Central Contact Point. Let me remind you of the December 2020 measure.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u63	Madam President, I think it is appropriate for the government to be here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u64	The Minister informed us that he had to be in the National Security Council this afternoon and that for at least another hour.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u65	Madam President, we discussed this yesterday in the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u66	The other ministers have all gone to the National Security Council.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u67	Mr Donné made a number of comments. I think he should expect an answer from the government. I suggest we wait until someone from the government arrives.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u68	We can proceed to another item on the agenda pending, which can be discussed without the Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u69	Madam President, last week, during the topical questions, I denounced the government's contempt for Parliament. At that time, the Prime Minister swayed it with pride. It seems to me, however, that the Minister's absence is yet another illustration of this. Questions are being asked, there are, I suppose, several speakers, but the government is not interested in them. It doesn't seem to matter whether we say something here or not, or perhaps they will read the report tomorrow and then come forward with an answer? I find it truly unheard of. The government consists of more than one minister, the government is one and indivisible et cetera and so on, we cannot say that the present government has been reluctant to appoint ministers. So it should really be possible to find someone who understands enough what is happening in the hemisphere to go to our room. I would really like to ask that we do not continue the discussion until someone from the government is here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u70	I must admit that I am all the more surprised that we have a government that is putting pressure on Parliament to adopt texts urgently and oral reports and to minimize delays, and that when their dossier is completed in plenary, the government representatives are not there. This is, however, quite particular, because when Parliament is called up urgently and the committees come together, with a multitude of subjects which are dealt with in a single committee, the parliamentarians respond. In this case, I find that this is really a lack of respect for the institution that is ours, and that has done – or at least, who has tried to do – the upstream job so that things can happen in time, even to regret for us, sometimes going beyond the consultations that we might have or opinion that we could seek on extremely important issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u71	Mrs Matz, we all understand the disappointment of not having a member of the government present for our work. Contacts are made to see if a minister could, at least, represent those who are held in the National Security Council. I am told that this session should last another hour. Ladies and gentlemen, in the meantime, I propose that we move on to a bill, so that we do not all waste our time in this House. We could go to point 7. We could proceed with the legislative proposal to amend the law of 22 April 2019 on quality practice in healthcare.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u72	Madam President, I think it is inappropriate that we should adapt our agenda to the government. It is the other way round, it is the government that must be present here, especially a member of it who knows something about the subject, and not the other way round. If we were to change the agenda now, I would have some understanding for the fact that we would put the government in a difficult situation. Yesterday, Minister Clarinval attended the Conference of Presidents. He knew the agenda as it was laid down. I do not think we have come out of the time to be expected, and then there seems to be no interest in following the debate here. That's unheard of. I suggest that we decide not to continue the meeting until the government has come forward, and that we do not adjust our agenda to the availability of ministers who may or may not wish to come. Maybe they won't be here until 10:00, and what are we supposed to do here in the meantime? The situation is unheard of and Parliament must be united on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u73	Madam President, I would like to endorse this. We have established an order of business, and the Members of this House are prepared to do so. By the way, there are hardly any legislative proposals on the agenda, they are almost all draft laws. A little respect for Parliament from the government is the least we can expect. I propose that we suspend until someone from the government is present so that we can deal with the agenda in accordance with the order of business. I cannot imagine that all government members should be present on the Security Council. They knew those bills were on the agenda today. The government is one and indivisible. So it can't be that difficult to bring someone forward within a decent time, so that we can continue the discussions after a suspension.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u74	Madam Chair, I will only intervene to indicate that we have received a request from the government for a number of bills to be reviewed quickly before the holidays. Moreover, it was proposed that a plenary session should be added to carry out this work fairly effectively. Parliament replied here. We assume our responsibility as parliamentarians to deal with these bills. The least we can do is that the government attends the debates and thus also assumes its own responsibility by participating in them. If Parliament takes its part, the government must do the same and the ministers must be present. That is the minimum to ensure a democratic debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u75	Madam Chair, of course we hear this need for a ministerial presence to answer questions on bills. Nevertheless, I agree with your suggestion to move forward on the bills, reflecting the work of the Members of Parliament. Of course, flexibility is everyone's responsibility. Ministers must, of course, meet parliamentary expectations. A National Security Council is an important moment. We know that the agenda is well-filled, in order to advance texts that are equally essential for our citizens. Therefore, we must make sure that we are a little flexible. This will not drastically upset our agenda if we move forward on bills, pending the appropriate arrangements for ministers or at least one of them to be present on behalf of the government. In short, I would like each of us to be able to show the same flexibility that we rightly expect - and I understand it well, Mr De Roover - from the ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u76	Madam President, with regard to the disruption of the agenda, given the health conditions, the authors of the bills may not be present. I don't know and don't plead for my group. This is not a question of bad will on our part, but the authors may not be here, because the health rules impose a maximum number of members at the sitting, as you know, and they may have planned to join the work at the time when the agenda will call for debate on their text. On the other hand, we can obviously wait for a member of the government to arrive. That said, we come to the fiscal and budgetary issues that are eminently technical. For this reason, the Minister of Finance should attend the discussion of this item. Of course, a National Security Council is in the process of being held, but wait for it to be completed in order to continue our work. I do not see another minister, however competent he may be, coming to answer the very technical questions that will be asked about the three budget and tax issues that we must now discuss.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u77	Madam Chair, there are indeed three bills on the agenda, two of which, pursuant to Rule 88, will be discussed at the end of the sitting and their authors are not present, including the Defi Bill. I think they have anticipated that there would be debate on the bills before, and the least that can be done, is that the minister be present for these debates. Even if we were dealing with bills, I think it would be quick. Furthermore, the authors of the bill "Article 88" are not present. I therefore propose an interruption of the sitting until the ministers are present.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u78	Madam President, I understand the members of the opposition when they ask for the presence of a minister or a member of the government, but there are proposals on the agenda. Let us now at least start discussing these proposals. Mr Matz refers to a proposal and I note that it is included in the list of speakers for one of the proposals. Then she'll be able to make her speech, won't she? The same goes for the other colleagues. In the meantime, we can continue to work, while the government can now send a Member to Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u79	Madam President, Mr Verherstraeten, I do not think that is correct. We also had to change our agenda, because yesterday we suddenly decided to complete the whole agenda until the finish. We are organizing and sticking to it on that basis. It is up to the government to be here when draft laws are discussed. It is not up to Parliament to change its agenda. Madam President, if the majority refuses to suspend the sitting pending the arrival of a member of the government, then I suggest that you take a normative vote on the change of agenda. This is because we differ from the order we set.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u80	Colleagues, Mr. Van Peteghem, who we've just reached, will be freed in an hour. We therefore have a choice: we can stop the sitting for an hour or we can use this time to address agenda item 7, and only that one. I hear Mr Boukili telling me that the other proposals are at the end of the agenda and we cannot address them. However, with regard to point 7, the speakers were both the rapporteur and Mrs Van Camp, Mr Creyelman, Mrs Vanpeborgh and Mrs Matz. Everyone is here to discuss this parliamentary initiative. It is now your choice to continue the work or to stop and create the index, which I understand the opposition wants to be able to do.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u81	Of course Minister Van Peteghem is welcome here. I also think he is more than capable of providing an appropriate response in the debate. The government is one and indivisible. Minister Van der Straeten has been here and has left. Did she leave for the Security Council? Is she taking part in the discussions? If not, it may be able to come back, because it is undoubtedly also aware, and otherwise there will be someone else to be found in the large pot of ministers. In any case, if the agenda is changed because the government does not show the flexibility requested by the Chamber, it can only be decided by an appropriate majority, which must be jointly and severally adopted. Honestly, I can't imagine anyone suggesting something like that. I think there is little else we can do but suspend for an hour and regret that the government is keeping us here for an hour. The meeting was suspended. The meeting is adjourned.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u82	The meeting was resumed. The sitting has resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u83	Minister Vincent Van Peteghem joined the House. We resume our work where we remained.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u84	Madam President, Minister, I am going to start over. In the meantime, I have tightened my speech a little bit to make it interesting enough for you, now that you have come back here. The law on various tax provisions is not, in itself, the most interesting issue and is not easy to discuss, as it is a very diverse package of measures. There are a number of good things in it, some of which are needed and some technical adjustments. However, there are also elements that are problematic. That's what I'll focus on in my speech. These are limited adjustments, but they are worrying in their subtlety. I find them worrying because they are actually building on a bad trend that was used with your first large legislative package, namely the programme law of December 2020. I am not talking about the tax increases that were in it, but about a measure whereby, in spite of a destructive opinion from the Data Protection Authority, it was decided that banks and financial institutions should pass on bank accounts balances to the Central Contact Point, the CAP. First of all, I would like to remind you of the December 2020 measure, which is relevant to the comments made in the draft law before us. Moreover, this measure has recently re-appeared because a number of lawyers and interest groups have indicated that they will challenge this law before the Constitutional Court. In December 2020, this government decided that all bank account balances should be transferred to the CAP. The GBA expressed itself quite destructively in December 2020, I quote: "According to the cases in which the CAP can be consulted by the competent FPS Finance officials, it is by no means necessary to add the data envisaged by the draft to the CAP. From this point of view, the draft thus gives rise to an unnecessary, particularly far-reaching and risky decentralisation of financial data, not commensurate with the intended objectives." In the discussions of the programme law in the Chamber, I cited this report and pointed out the disproportionate nature of the measure, which is a far too far-reaching breach of privacy. IRS can already request bank information in case of fraud. There was therefore no reason to make all the bank details of all taxpayers easily accessible to the tax authorities in this way. My amendment to delete this provision was, of course, not adopted. The GBA's opinion was referred to the wastebasket. My conclusion at that time was that this government was developing an asset register, so that the tax authority would have a complete view of the assets of all Belgians, regardless of any fraud context, and that CAP would be a useful tool for closing budget gaps. This could then be done under the guise of either combating fraud or imposing new or additional taxes. A provision in the present draft law confirms that conclusion. This package again contains a provision on the CAP and this package also contains measures that completely ignore the GBA's opinion. These are Articles 115 and 116 on the introduction of a minimum amount under which bank account balances should not be disclosed. As regards the CAP, the programme law stipulated that the King should determine the minimum amount under which those balances and amounts should not be communicated by the banks to the CAP. This makes sense when the measure fits in with the fraud context. But with Article 115, the government wants to make the King's authorization to set a minimum amount under which the banks should not transfer any balance to the CAP optional in order to eventually close all accounts. The GBA stated in its opinion of 26 November 2020 that personal data should be adequate, relevant, serving and limited to what is necessary for the intended purposes. I really want to stress this because the use of a minimum amount is part of that proportionality test. In other words, by abandoning that minimum threshold, which the government now wants, that proportionality test will be even less fulfilled. This means that all bank balances will have to be transferred without any lower limit. Why? Is that a measure in the fight against organised crime? Against money laundering? Against tax fraud? Absolutely not! That has nothing to do with it. The only possible conclusion here is that an asset register is being developed effectively. For example, this subtle provision in this bill further contributes to the development of a full asset register, moreover without any respect for the legal principles of privacy. After all, it will be very easy for the tax authorities to look at the balance of each citizen's bank accounts. And that's for a government with a liberal prime minister. We have to do it. Secondly, I would like to briefly refer to Articles 107 and 108. These articles deal with the provision of tax information to local authorities. According to both articles, therefore, the FPS Finance is intended to make its tax data available to local authorities with a view to a proactive automatic allocation of income-related local benefits. There is nothing wrong with the pro-active allocation of such benefits, on the contrary, we welcome that. However, this is also about the way in which this is worked out. Again, there is a very critical opinion from the GBA that is now stating, I quote: "It is important to avoid the release of comprehensive and detailed tax information. The legal authorisation to share tax information with local authorities is far too wide when it is registered in Article 337. The implementation of legal or regulatory provisions, tasks, covers a much wider load than the proactive allocation of rights. This authorisation should therefore be included in a more specific provision rather than in the general provision of Article 337. It dates from well before the introduction of the Data Protection Regulation and has therefore never been reviewed by the GBA." Again, therefore, a very critical opinion. Once again, this is pushed aside without any serious form of accountability. Although it is said that it will only be used for proactive rights allocation, there is no such thing in the legal text itself. In other words, nothing precludes the use of all this tax information. Once again, the necessary legal guarantees are lacking to ensure that citizens' tax data are not unduly or improperly accessed by civil servants from cities and municipalities. Unfortunately, what this government lacks in terms of security culture is ample in terms of control culture. For all these fundamental reasons, Minister, we will be voting against this draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u85	Madam President, the text under consideration, which deals with various tax provisions, in addition to some corrections that contribute to improving the quality of all tax legislation, also contains small and large amendments or improvements. I will not highlight all of them, I will address five of them. First, this bill will improve the legal strength of the Cayman tax. Articles 20 to 22 follow up on a ruling of the Constitutional Court, which had the logical consequence of either amending the law or justifying it more. It is this option that is taken here, so that the Cayman tax is more comfortable to use, that it can be used more and more safely. The legal strength of this tax is therefore strengthened. Secondly, we will improve the training of workers during their careers. Article 85 refers to the programme law of 20 December 2020 which granted a tax advantage to companies that offered their workers more hours of training than those prescribed by law. The objective of this tax advantage is to go beyond what is required in the regulation. The importance of training for people is known to return to work or to extend a career. This is an essential element for us. The wording excluded companies governed by public law – Proximus, bpost, HR Rail. That was not at all the intention of this programme law of December 2020. These companies will now be entitled to this benefit in connection with the improvement of the training of workers. Thirdly, this bill will help to promote, to some extent, the circular economy. Article 104 permits the free disposal of property of negligible value. Goods may be exchanged for services or transferred to CPAS or sustainable development organizations (such as Oxfam), working with developing countries or working with vulnerable people. This makes it possible to re-use assets of negligible value. By promoting the circular economy, this goes in the right direction. Fourthly, there is a modernization of exchanges between taxpayers and the CPS. Articles 105 and 106 provide for the possibility, for those who have digital accounts and with their consent, of facilitating the disclosure of documents by the taxpayer, but without requiring that the whole be done by digital communication. So we don't impose digitization. In fact, dialogue between the taxpayer and the tax administration is being improved and trade is being modernized. The minister confirmed again, in our committee discussions, that the taxpayer will always have the opportunity to meet with the controller. This is a provision that we are satisfied with. The fifth element is the provision of tax data to local authorities. Of course, this is not an end or an objective in itself, but it can facilitate a series of things. It is therefore observed that this provision does not concern the provision of all tax data. It is not widespread at all and it is very well so. This will only concern certain information. Similarly, this will not be done in any way, as the individuals who receive the information will be subject, in the same way as the FPS Finances, to professional secrecy. On the other hand, and this, in my view, is a very interesting point of this provision, it makes possible the proactive allocation of rights by the local authorities. This is an excellent thing, which implements an element of the government agreement. As such, we will of course support this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u86	Madam President, we too would like to zoom in on the CAP, on banking secrecy and, of course, on our privacy. With Article 115 of this bill, the government intends to authorise the King to set a minimum amount under which the financial institutions should not deliver any balance to the CAP and to make it optional. What amount is the Minister thinking? He did not say in committee. The government probably feels the mood and is anything but transparent about this arrangement, now that this public is under pressure. The fact that the purple-green parties are nibbling on banking secrecy and our privacy has certainly not escaped us. The Flemish Interest strongly opposed this passage here in December when the programme law was voted in this Parliament. The new scheme aims to ensure that banks deliver all their customers' accounts to the central point of contact, the CAP. Those who want to look at our accounts cannot, of course, rule out the possibility that these balances will ever be taxed, but of course the purple-green parties do not yet mention that. The viewing of the bank account is a first step towards a register of assets and for the Flemish Interest the banking secret in this country must remain intact. We are not alone in this criticism. The Data Protection Authority also rejects this government's plans to have access to our bank accounts and thus to remove banking secrecy. "The draft does not sufficiently show how the mandatory communication is necessary," the privacy watchdog puts in a very sharp advice. Citizens can and will use this advice to complain against this breach of banking secrecy. That is what we said here in plenary in December, and that is what is happening right now. I also read in the opinion "Although the Data Protection Authority is already questioning the existence of some link to the current health crisis, it wishes to point out that events of a transitory nature can only rarely justify the introduction of permanent rules." The GBA therefore also points to the fact that for the umpteenth time the corona crisis was abused in a scandalous way to make a measure permanent. I don't know if the minister is looking at Channel Z, but this week the advisor of the Data Protection Authority on that transmitter confirmed that insight of the organization once again. I quote the Data Protection Authority: 'It is a very far-reaching dangerous centralisation of the most sensitive financial data of the entire Belgian population. That is why we, the Data Protection Authority, have given a negative opinion up to three times." You may want to review the broadcast on Channel Z. Not only the Data Protection Authority, but also privacy activists find the new law disproportionate, because the central register can be consulted not only by people in the administration, but also by people in the justice, police and notaries. The problem is also that there is a greater risk in the context of cyber security. We have seen in recent weeks that Belgium is particularly weak in relation to cyberattacks, for example,........................................................................................................................................................ Nobody wants their neighbors to know how much money is in their accounts. It is enough that there is a data breach or that an official is careless about the data and our banking business is just out on the street. It is a very big political and social problem should that happen. We are sure that many people absolutely do not want their bank details and account balances to just be on the street. The CAP Act has silently introduced an asset register, a mockery of our privacy. It is not just the amount of the accounts, but also the amount of the accounts that is very important for all the globalised amounts of financial contracts. This was described very widely by the government. Just think of mortgage loans to buy a house or an apartment or a loan for buying a car, opening a safe or a life insurance policy, but also, for example, a loan company. The lawyers therefore ask the Constitutional Court to destroy the law in the name of several citizens and civil rights activists. It is quite clear to them in which direction it is going: they really want to go to an asset register in order to tax so differently and, above all, more under the pretext of combating tax fraud. In the search for a so-called fair tax system, a very important fundamental right of citizens is set aside. In fact, to fund the procedure, the privacy activists hold crowdfunding. This afternoon, by means of a press release, they announced that they had already raised more than EUR 3,000 in a few days. The theme is therefore particularly strong in an important part of the population. So they certainly have a chance to have this part of the program law destroyed. The Flemish Interest already thumbs for a happy ending.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u87	This draft contains many corrections and updates of references, but also a number of important substantive elements. I want to pick out three of them. The first point is the adjustments concerning the Cayman tax. These are important insight taxes for foreign low- or non-taxed private capital structures. A number of cases were destroyed by the Constitutional Court. This way is remediated. Secondly, this design will allow us to go a little further in the modernisation of the FPS Finance and the IRS, with the possibility to do the electronic transfer of accounting documents. During Corona, for the past year and a half, there have of course been fiscal controls, but at a distance, adapted to the corona measures. This means that we can now anchor an additional digital leap in this design, so that certain pieces can be transferred electronically. This is an easy solution, including for the taxpayer, provided that physical checks are always possible. The digital road is therefore certainly not an obligation. A final element that is very important to CD&V is the better exchange of data between the FPS Finance and local authorities. Our local authorities, the municipalities, are the first contact point for many services and very good services. It is the joint duty of the higher authorities to provide the best possible support to municipal authorities so that they can bring this service to citizens as efficiently as possible. This draft provides for the possibility of data exchange so that local authorities can request certain data. This is not just happening, but it is very clear, for example for proactive justice. It is very important that people who are entitled to certain subsidies, allowances and so on are automatically entitled to a lot of things. They're usually people who can't take that administration right away. That is therefore extremely relevant to society. Better data exchange will not only make it more efficient for local authorities, but will also reduce the administrative burden on residents. Of course, that must be done with respect for privacy. That's why thresholds are built in. There is an obligation to conclude a protocol. That's a first threshold. Secondly, the IRS will not just give all kinds of data to the local authorities. There will be a review. Thirdly, we must not forget that our local authorities as a government are also subject to a lot of privacy obligations. We have confidence in the competences of local authorities in this area. We do not see why what is exchanged, for example, with the Regions, would not be possible with the local authorities either. It is important to communicate well with local authorities on this last point, so that full use can also be made of and fully committed to proactive rights allocation. For Flanders this will undoubtedly be done in good consultation with the VVSG, who was also a asking party for that part. Those were a number of comments on the comprehensive draft, which we will, of course, approve.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u88	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will simply respond briefly to the statements made by Mr Vermeersch and Mr Donné. One aspect of the GBA's opinion is mentioned. In the meantime, the government has already provided an additional argument in relation to the various questions for advice to the GBA. I also refer to the GBA's replies to the reasons given in the opinion, which gives a different perspective to the GBA's decision. As a result, the GBA also nuanced its comments in new opinions. I refer to opinions 14/2021 of 5 February 2021 and 80/2021 of 21 May 2021. Mr Donné, the opinion you are referring to concerns another law, which is no longer actually before us. Moreover, the GBA has not re-established this reasoning in its opinion on the present legislative text. Therefore, the requirement of necessity and proportionality, as also included in the General Data Protection Regulation, has been met in view of the purpose of the CAP, in particular the proper performance of the statutory tasks, as included in tax laws, which are also of public policy. It should not be forgotten that there is often a great deal of unwillingness to cooperate, for example, in a tax investigation that can expose tax fraud. In addition, you are not aware that the procedure to be followed in order to gain access to the CAP requires a lot of steps and that the data are not easily accessible. The CAP, unlike the impression you give, will certainly not become a publicly accessible asset register. Finally, Mr Vermeersch, allow me to point out some contradiction in your speech. In the Committee on Finance, you and your group are constantly calling for an effective approach to the fight against fraud. Today there is a balanced measure for the vote, which is supported by the anti-fraud services, and you are firing them off. This surprises me greatly, all the more so because the provision on banking secrecy does not remove at all. There is no change in the tax procedures. It is a balanced measure, I repeat. With regard to the comment on local authorities in the context of the legislative amendment allowing proactive rights allocation, I would like to point out that local authorities can apply to the tax administration, after which my administration will examine any request on a case-by-case basis. So, again, there is absolutely no question of unlimited access for local authorities to tax information. The opinion of the Data Protection Authority was also taken into account. The only thing that is not possible is standardisation, as requested by the GBA. My tax administration will not determine the terms of the award. It is up to the local government to establish it. These elements, of course, differ from local government to local government. So it is not possible to concrete that today. This also means that the rules on data protection, which apply to my administration, are also respected by introducing the possibility of facilitating a proactive rights allocation, as only relevant and necessary information to enable the proactive rights allocation will be shared with local authorities. Moreover, these local authorities are bound by the same rules on data protection, which my administration must also comply with when carrying out its tasks. In that sense, I do not think that comment is entirely correct and correct either. In this way, Madam President, I believe I have responded to the two main points made by my fellow Members.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u89	Madam President, I would like to take advantage of the presence of the Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u90	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u91	Pay attention to your words, there is no need to use such terms here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u92	...after the opposition had asked and he wasn't of service. He couldn't be reached by phone because of the place he was in. (...) now that you happen to be there, against a minister who is always there. That was disrespectful.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u93	Disrespectful? I don't need to be called names here. I was still careful in my terms. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u94	Madam President, I understand the excitement, because it is indeed an embarrassing moment for the government. Minister, you say that you are angry, but you should be angry with your colleagues, not with Parliament. We are not criticizing you as a person, because fortunately one minister is showing up here, albeit not at the time it was expected. Allow me, then, to express this criticism: the agenda was known. The previous items on the agenda have not been dealt with on a platter. However, that being said, we appreciate that you are here. Your indignation is justified, but when you return to the National Security Council or when you see one of your colleagues again, you will have to vent your indignation there and to the Prime Minister, but not to Members of Parliament, who have just had to stop their work because of your government's lack of respect for our House. We really do not have any lessons to learn from you as a member of a government that regularly believes that Parliament can be ignored in its rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u95	Madam President, I have just lost the point of my speech. Minister, I would just like to comment on your argument that there is often a lack of will to participate in fiscal control. What you are creating in your draft law would give us an opportunity now, but it actually already exists. The tax authorities can already have perfect access to bank data through the CAP if the taxpayer is unwilling. There is therefore no need to change the law. Furthermore, I have still not heard any valid reason why the threshold for transferring bank balances should be omitted in the context of the fight against fraud. That has nothing to do with the fight against fraud, I think. So much for my reply. I don't expect any more answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u96	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u97	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1993/4) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1993/4) The bill has 116 articles. The draft law has 116 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u98	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u99	I propose that you devote one general discussion to these two bills. I propose that a single general discussion be devoted to these two draft laws. [[Assent]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u100	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs, Mr Donné and Mrs Cornet, referred to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u101	We shall now proceed to the discussion of the articles of Bill No. 2000. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2000/3) We shall begin by discussing the articles of Bill No. 2000. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2000/3) The bill has 71 articles. The draft law contains 71 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u102	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. We shall now proceed to the discussion of the articles of Bill No. 2001. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2001/3) We shall begin by discussing the articles of Bill No. 2001. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2001/3) The bill has three articles. The draft law has 3 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u103	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u104	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mr Van der Donkt. He shall refer to his written report. Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u105	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1943/8) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1943/8) The bill has 27 articles. The draft law has 27 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u106	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u107	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Gitta Vanpeborgh, Patrick Prévot, Caroline Taquin, Laurence Hennuy, Nathalie Muylle, Robby De Caluwé, Barbara Creemers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u108	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mr Hervé Rigot. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u109	Colleagues, the text had been given urgency. It was discussed in the Health Committee last Tuesday. We have therefore requested an oral report from the committee. That is why I will report to you as briefly as possible but as precisely as possible on this text. The text was introduced by Ms. Gitta Vanpeborgh. It aims to postpone the entry into force of the law of 22 April 2019 on the quality of the practice of health care by one year, thus from 1 July 2021 to 1 July 2022. The reason is to give health care professionals and the administrations concerned sufficient time to take the necessary preparatory measures. The process has been disrupted, and everyone is aware of it, by a very long period of current affairs, but also by the current health crisis. However, for a large number of articles, early entry into force is possible, by means of a royal decree deliberated in the Council of Ministers. Several groups deplored the fact that implementation is one year after implementation, given the importance of the law, but these groups also recognize the need to give time, particularly to recipients, given the situation we are experiencing. Ms. Van Camp requested the road map and asked for a clear feedback on the field in relation to the opinions given. Ms Merckx said that she supported the text as a whole, but felt it was essential that the opinions of the representatives of the various professions concerned should be collected and delivered in writing. Ms. Fonck questioned the opinions received from the sector, the road map put in place and the consultation to be carried out within the framework of the planned royal decrees. She also referred to the issue of the legal framework for telemedicine and the reduction of the reimbursement rate by 25 per cent for services provided by midwives, kines, nurses and paramedics who had not been agreed upon when the 60 per cent agreement rate was reached. The Minister provided a series of additional information and answers to all these questions. Two amendments were tabled by Mrs Fonck. They were rejected and the text was adopted by fourteen votes in favour and three abstentions. I made it very brief, ladies and gentlemen. I now leave it to you to debate the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u110	Madam President, what is before me today is yet another fine example of Vivaldi's or purple-green policy. It is a Vooruit bill to delay a law that has remained in place and is therefore not ready in time, but the proposal itself was submitted too late. It was therefore necessary for Parliament to pursue its approach. Yesterday the text was discussed in committee, and today it is being discussed in plenary. You would think that the government would also be present, so that it would all progress well, but that too has been delayed. If it is a trivial law, it could still be said that it is not a problem. However, this is a very important law for the care sector. It concerns "KB 78" as mentioned in the sector. It is a law that defines the exercise and division of tasks in the provision of care. That's extremely important for the terrain. Both carers and other sectors are waiting for this law. The last law on caregivers discussed in Parliament already outlined why this is so important for the provision of care itself. We all agreed that the care staff, which we really want to cherish, is taking on too many tasks today that can be delegated, no matter what different studies show. Among other things, KB 78 can offer a solution. In other sectors, for example those of people with disabilities or education, volunteers or employees often come into contact with concerns that are actually medical or nursing. I am thinking, for example, of a class with a child with diabetes who is assisted by the teacher in the administration of medication or an outing in the sector of people with disabilities, where a counselor also assists with the administration of medication during lunch. The reform of KB 78 was necessary to finally define solutions to such situations. During the previous term of office, an initial drawing was already initiated. It is therefore truly unheard of that the further development of such a law has remained. As has already been said, this is done by means of a legislative proposal which is intended to prevent the entry into force of the law, because the work has remained in place, and which has been put forward in the near future. Next week, that law would come into force. This shows no respect for Parliament and the services, who then have to deal with the work. Above all, it shows a complete lack of respect for the terrain. This is becoming a constant by the laws of the majority concerning the care staff. I would like to remind you, because the list is starting to get embarrassingly long. The premium for additional costs for protective equipment was promised by this government in March, but it was delayed for months by the apology for the word "true" from the government of Health and that of Budget. The nurses were in uncertainty about this premium for months, while they had all kinds of extra costs to purchase material, such as protection material against corona. In the case of the nursing fund, Parliament had made the funds available. The only thing the government had to take care of was spending. This too was delayed for months, which, according to the government, was the fault of the trade unions, who had been given control over spending. Worse still, a large part of the funds was allocated to other sectors, which means that there is less left for the care staff and nurses for whom those funds were intended. By the way, I have not yet received the documents relating to that law which were promised that they would be delivered to us. The alignment with the sector was once again inadequate. However, the government had promised that it had happened. After that, the sector took the floor very clearly and said that it was not sufficiently heard. Also on the proposal for a better remuneration for home care, which we had tabled, should the sector not be heard. It was yet another attempt to get these people to speak, to talk about what they think is important and how we can better help them in these difficult circumstances, but of course it was referred back to the wastebasket. The sector certainly did not need to be heard, because then it would be noticed that the laws that are made are absolutely not aligned with them. Then that bill was copied by the majority. Except for a small detail, because without the better remuneration that we had included in it. Unfortunately, the list doesn't stop here. The arrangement with the IFIC is also a mess that no one can go out with. It was about last week in plenary. The care staff is on the eve of the choice and there are still uncertainties. Negotiations on the fact that wages should be surrendered are still under way. How can one, as a health care provider, choose to step in or not? Now is also that KB 78 remains in place, in terms of respect for the healthcare sector that can count. Those mistakes continue to be made time and time again. That is why we have asked the reporter to explain this very well so that he can now have firm guarantees that the sector will be heard and that this will at least be aligned with Parliament, because we can no longer trust the government on this matter. As with the previous law, I said it then, and now I say it again again, today we will vote with our hearts but certainly not with our minds. Above all, we hope that the postponement will now be used to bring about a good law which will be aligned with the sector. So from Parliament we are asking for those written opinions, so that we are at least sure that the voice of the caregivers will be heard this time. We hope that there will be an alignment with Parliament now, with the road map that has been promised, so that we can think along with it. Our group will therefore abstain. That's a clear signal. The list of laws for the care sector in which the lack of alignment with the sector has become a constant has now become too long. It is a clear warning from our group that proposals for the benefit of the healthcare sector should finally be properly drawn up. They need to be put on top of the pile so that they can get there properly and quickly. After all, care workers deserve that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u111	Madam President, I welcome the honours of our group because, unfortunately, Mrs Sneppe has been prevented. The aim of this bill is to postpone the entry into force of the law of 22 April 2019 on the quality of healthcare practice by one year, until 1 July next year. For a large number of articles, an early entry into force is possible by decision after consultation with the Council of Ministers. When discussing this document, we noticed that it was stated that the caregivers and the administration were not ready due to two unforeseen circumstances, namely the very long period of current cases and the corona crisis, which today is an explanation for everything that goes wrong in this country. As far as the first circumstance is concerned, this will be taken into account in the future, as long as the traditional parties cling to the cordon sanitary. I believe that maintaining that cordon will not be much easier, which will certainly not shorten the period of current affairs in the future. As for the second circumstance, we can understand that, despite our impression that it was rather the government that was not ready than the caregivers. Anyone who asks questions here and there knows that the caregivers have recently been fully informed, including through webinars and training courses. They have already made the necessary adjustments or are at least fully engaged in them, despite the health crisis in which they still play a prominent role. The Minister promised in committee that work would be done on the implementation of the Quality Practice Act. We expect the Minister to honour that promise and to make available to Parliament the roadmap by which this law will come into force, including the stricter timetable, which Mrs Vanpeborgh has announced well, so that it can do its job. Madam President, we would also like to stress the need for everyone involved to be heard. It is for this reason that the Minister has promised the members of the committee to provide them with the list of opinions so that the committee itself can decide who else may need to be consulted. We in the Vlaams Belang expressed the hope that it was not just words about these opinions. We will keep the Minister's word. As far as we're concerned, he can expect questions about that after recess.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u112	Madam President, first of all, I would like to thank a Member of the Chamber, Hervé Rigot, who has signed up as rapporteur and has produced a very concise but good oral report at a very rapid rate. I would also like to take this opportunity, and now I am looking at the other side, to thank colleagues, both from the majority and from the opposition, because they finally agreed by consensus to produce that oral report here today. This will, of course, also have an impact because this will allow us to put this bill to the vote effectively this week and thus postpone the entry into force of the quality law by one year. I would like to return to the comments that were just made by one of my colleagues. I am convinced that this delay also represents a relief for the care sector, as the Minister said at the meeting. Why? He also has a proactive writing addressed to the sector. There was a very positive response to that. It has been made very clear that the postponement offers legal certainty, which is important, but also that it gives more scope for participation and reflection. I am sure that will be used. That's why I think what I hear across the street is a little faint. In the end, it is about the legislative proposal before us and the quality law, but it is important to show that there is no respect for the ground. I want to disprove that. This is about protective equipment, about the Health Care Staff Fund, about the IFIC and so on, while you only come back on one dossier, that of the Health Care Staff Fund. I have said many times that we have taken the necessary time to consult the social partners and I am convinced that the final result will be visible on the ground. I fully agree with you that this is a very important law. The law includes a series of measures that help to ensure the quality and safety of care. I will not sum up what all this means, because I have already done so in committee, but there are five central yards or parts that are very important in the law and also a whole series of provisions that have been incorporated into existing legislation, such as the WUG, and which are being modified in reinforced form to form a whole on quality. Indeed, a period of two years was originally foreseen after publication in order to complete its entry into force. That is a very reasonable period, but there are factors that have put sticks in the wheels in that area. Two have been mentioned, and I would like to come back to that. A first factor is, of course, the absence of a government in its full competence. We should not forget that this is an issue. A second factor is the corona pandemic. It would also be silly to deny that, even though I just belonged to one of my colleagues. The pandemic has had a significant impact, not only on the work of ministers and Cabinets, but also on the administrations, for example the Public Health and RIZIV Office, and not to mention the care staff and the actors who represent it and who need time to test and discuss the provisions so that they can enter into force. Those two factors have really played a part. We've seen that, too. I think we all received e-mails from the healthcare sector saying that they were clearly relieved that this delay would come. As the Minister has said very clearly, the legislative proposal as it is now before us contains a limited number of provisions which will not enter into force until the new date, if adopted. It also contains a large number of provisions which may enter into force before 1 July 2022. That will then be the new date of entry into force of the law. The intention is that the Minister of that year will use it to consult with all actors in order to achieve full entry into force. He won't just do that. He promised that on the committee, too. He said that a roadmap has been put in place, which has not yet been completed, but that is being finalized. For some, summer holidays will be a holiday, not for others. The finalisation of that roadmap is bound by a strict timetable. The Minister also promised that this would be on the table in committee after the summer recess, including a list of opinions to be requested. Members of this House may, of course, also ask for additional opinions. I would like to conclude here, as I also concluded in committee: c'est reculer pour mieux sauter. That's the way it's supposed to be from time to time, given the circumstances. After the Minister's answers in committee yesterday, with a roadmap, with a strict timetable and with the promise of involvement of all the care actors in the coming year, I am convinced that we will not just take a leap forward, but that we will make a deliberate and conscious leap that will result in a quality law, which will, with the necessary involvement of the care sector, be an absolute plus, not only for the care sector, but also for patients. What I just said about this bill and the quality law also applies to the Health Care Staff Fund. That was exactly the same situation. Sometimes it's back to jump better. That will also be the case there.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u113	Madam President, I did not intend to intervene, but I have heard so much here. I'm actually a bit of an experience expert in making this law. So I know that's been preceded by a lot of consultations. We have implemented this within two years, precisely because these KBs still had to be made. This also requires consultation, which was also planned. I hear here saying that this bill came at the request of the healthcare sector. It is said that the quality law is important, but I would add that the quality law is particularly important for the patient. If you are not treated properly as a patient, then there is nothing you can do. That's why the law was made. This hasn't been easy. We have allowed a number of chapters to come into force because we no longer had a majority. We have worked very hard on this. I think this is a very necessary law for the patient. If the implementing decisions were finally started, as your Minister promised, they could be put into effect earlier. That year really needs to be used for that. I therefore hope that this will not happen again next year. We are now June 23rd and the law will enter into force on July 1st. If no KB has yet been consulted with the sector, I can well believe that people were relieved to hear that, with little respect, this is being rushed through the Chamber to vote on this. I hope that this promise will be kept by the Minister and that we will stop chasing through laws which should already be in force. We're in better times now. Let's get this meeting started. As for the holiday, Mrs Vanpeborgh, there is no holiday for the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u114	Like others, we obviously regret the urgent need to deal with this proposal. In the end, it is also a bill disguised as a bill. On 12 May, the Minister alerted local actors to the postponement of the entry into force of the 2019 Act. But the proposal, which makes four articles, was only tabled on 16 June (one month later), when we are asked to work urgently, with an oral report and an immediate referral to the plenary. It's definitely a lack of consideration. In substance, in the Health Committee, my colleague Catherine Fonck asked the minister several questions and we note several important points made by him. In particular, it is committed to the involvement of all officially representative associations of health actors in working groups, committees, etc. created as part of the roadmap being finalized. This consultation is essential for us. The Minister also committed to forwarding to the members of the Health Commission the final version of the roadmap after the summer and to having a debate on it within the same committee. It also undertook to amend the Royal Decree of 10 September 2020 on the medical permanence by general practitioners and the approval of functional cooperation to postpone its entry into force by one year. Again, I insist that the minister take advantage of this amendment to completely review the content of this royal decree in consultation with the general practitioners in order to define an effective organization, which operates on the basis of circles and guard stations and which avoids all red tape. However, we are not satisfied with the Minister's response to the coming into force of sections 85 and 86 of the Quality Act, 2019. These articles provide for the abolition of the 25% reduction in the reimbursement rate for services provided by unconventional midwives, kines, nurses and paramedics when the 60% quorum of individual accession to the tariff agreement is reached. The aim is to put an end to this measure, which has a direct financial impact on the patient, since the patient is less reimbursed, even though it is the result of a choice by the provider. If we consider that policies must do everything possible to encourage agreement, we consider that it is not acceptable to penalize the patient for a decision by his or her care provider. Moreover, these measures were difficult to justify because they applied to certain health professionals such as kines and logopeds, but not to others, such as doctors and dentists. Article 87 of the Quality Law of 2019 provides that the King shall, by deliberate decree in the Council of Ministers, fix the date of entry into force of articles 85 and 86, but this royal decree has not yet been adopted. For this reason, we are again tabling amendments to delete Article 87, so that Articles 85 and 86 come into force at the same time as the whole of the law, that is, on 1 July 2022 at the earliest, through the adoption of a royal decree, in the interests of patients. For the reasons I have just mentioned, we will abstain from this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u115	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u116	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2071/1) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2071/1) The bill has 4 articles. The bill has 4 articles. * * * * * * *
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u117	* * * * * * * The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved article as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled, the Rule that has been adopted and the whole will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u118	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u119	Madam President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u120	Then you will have the floor in the general discussion, Mrs De Wit.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u121	Madam President, I will be careful with my words, but I assume that Minister Van Quickenborne will not come here, but will remain Minister Van Peteghem. That's not a problem for me. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, your name is Vincent. That's not so bad. So it's half right already. Colleagues, carrying out prison sentences under three years of age is a challenge that many governments and ministers have been bitting their teeth on. That is what has been being tried for 15 years. The law on external legal status, which states that penalties must also be carried out under three years of age and that the execution is subject to the control of a criminal court, is now 15 or 16 years old. That part has always remained unexecuted. I remember that former Justice Minister De Clerck tried and announced it. Mrs Turtelboom announced it. Minister Geens................................................................................................................................................................................................ Today there is Minister Van Quickenborne, who has so far made the most punitive communication about this. Ladies and gentlemen, that part of the work has never been carried out. What did happen under the Swedish government? That government has made a modified design. A draft has been drafted under the previous government to ensure that the short prison sentences could be better executed and that the sentences under three years would not remain empty. That legislation would normally have entered into force on 1 October 2020, if it had not been for the fact that there would have been much more workload initially for the SURB and more people in prison. That is a fact if punishment is carried out instead of the de facto impunity that exists in practice to date. However, Corona led a different direction and there was much less execution than more. The legislation was therefore put on hold for a while. In the meantime, the entry into force of the law has been postponed several times, including by the new Minister of Justice. D-day is today December 1, 2021. The delay went hand in hand with other measures. We know that. We are thinking of penitentiary leave and non-urgent convictions that have not been carried out. They were waiting to depopulate the prison because of the coronapandemic. With the amendment of the law in 2019, we actually had good hope of taking steps forward with the execution of the sentence, finally implementing short sentences and ending the execution of the sentence by means of sentencing letters which immediately transform a prison sentence of several months into electronic supervision or a fraction of that sentence. At the beginning of this reign, it appeared that there were practical difficulties in implementing that 2019 law, hence this draft law to operationalise the procedure for the execution of the custodial sentences of 3 years or less. In the best of the worlds, we should actually be able to have any punishment carried out, no matter how long or short it is and regardless of the nature of the punishment. That could be a fine, a community service or a prison sentence. We don't live in that ideal world today. We are trying to do politics in a realistic way. I would like every short sentence to be implemented, and that is not quite the case with this legislation, but we are nevertheless taking a big step forward. It is in any case over with the automatic conversion into conversion letters, with the handling by the administration. From now on, the criminal court will judge whether or not a person is eligible for a method of execution other than imprisonment. I welcome the fact that a judge is charged with this. That was also the intention of the 2006 law. In this case, we are trying to put it into practice. We already know that there will be no complete impunity under three years. It is true that for punishments up to 18 months one can ask for a mode of execution from freedom. This does not apply to sexually motivated crimes or terrorism, where punishment will always have to be carried out, no matter how short it is. The criminal execution judge will also be able to take that decision immediately, but that is another story. The convict will also be given a responsibility. If he wants to ask for a certain mode of execution, such as a work sentence or electronic supervision, he has to prepare his own file. If he can't, it's very simple. Then he gets that prison bill and goes to jail. Today there is a total impunity there. I am glad that we will get rid of this legislation. It could be better, but we're moving in the right direction. Mr van Peteghem, you cannot answer for your colleague's communication, but I assume you will pass on the message. The communication we are getting here from the Minister responsible for Justice is quite confusing in that respect. I'm trying to get the actions and the communication of the minister and the reality very much aligned, but I can't get them on the same page. The Minister says that all punishments will be carried out, including the short ones. Last week it sounded like even a 15-day prison sentence would be carried out. "A 15-day prison sentence is also a punishment, that is to say 15 jail time is 15 days in prison." The Minister had it recorded last week. The Minister has already postponed the WRP a few times in recent months. In addition, by means of corona measures, this minister has depopulationd prisons and has actually done less in terms of punishment than more. In addition, there are COLs from the D.A.'s office that say it's over with all the corona measures. From now on, the execution would be rebooted. As mayor, I have the privilege of getting those COLs. On 1 December the WERP arrives and the delay in the execution of the sentence must therefore be overtaken. As of 1 December, a whole group of executions of all these short-term punishments will be added. So now they have to work and catch up. Those COLs have entered, but on the other hand the Minister does make a KB that renews the corona measures again, so that that catch-up operation cannot be carried out. That means that all this will be in a funnel on 1 December. I don't understand. On the one hand, everything would be carried out, but at the same time, the current sentence will be delayed. That 15 days is 15 days. It may be said that the opposition is sawing and that it is never good for them, but we are not alone with that statement. It's a walk with the truth. Mr Van Quickenborne has recorded that there will be no mercy. For a good understanding, I am in favour of that. A punishment must be a punishment. For me, it would be a good thing that a punishment is being carried out. By the way, I think we are better off with a few short sentences that are actually being carried out than with long sentences. It seems to me sometimes more efficient, if they follow soon after the conviction, don't get me wrong. What we are voting on here today is partly the opposite of what the Minister says with his '15 days are 15 days'. That is a pity, but these statements sometimes run counter to the Minister's actions. That's misleading. The Minister says we'll carry out any punishment. I would like to know the capacity with which we will do that. You know the views of our group. We have always said that we should never adapt the population to prison capacity, but that prison capacity should be adjusted. I know very well that building a prison in this country is not obvious. We've been working on the master plans for a long time. We all know that new prisons are coming, but that is not a new capacity. We know that detention homes and transition homes are arriving, but that will not be the large group that can be taken care of. If they say they will carry out any punishment, I would like to hear it, and I ask what capacity that will be. Is that realistic? This is particularly true of the fact that we will have to make a catch-up by means of the corona measures, which is once again blocked by this minister, who is not there. I fear that this is ultimately misleading communication. There is also an interesting question, although Minister Van Peteghem will probably not be able to answer it. There's a new penal code. It's in the pipeline, it's started under the Swedish government. You remember, Mr Geens, the discussion on the penalties of less than one year. The experts quit because the N-VA felt that punishments under one year should still be possible. However, the experts did not want prison sentences under one year in the new Criminal Code. They didn't want to start until one year. The phrase "15 days in jail is 15 days in jail" I am now trying to reconcile with the new Criminal Code that is coming. We then had a compromise of at least 6 months to a year, but never less than 6 months. I know that some colleagues from other parties have put the original version of the new Criminal Code back on the table, so no penalties under one year. Will that still be there? Sometimes, as a minister who likes to announce and communicate, one has to think about what one says. I do not know, unless everything is changed now and then I will be very happy, because that is what we wanted and the experts did not get. Perhaps there will be a Criminal Code where all the short sentences are returned; so that a judge can judge what is appropriate for the person who stands for him. Or there will be a criminal code, as is evident from previous texts, with no more prison sentences of less than one year. In that case, this communication from the Minister of Justice is no longer correct at all. So I'm looking forward to it. Minister van Peteghem, you cannot remedy this, but it is again a very serious communication from the Minister of Justice, which is not supported by the facts at all; not because the measures have been extended for the time being and the execution of the sentence is still unfulfilled, not because the WRP says anything other than what the Minister has written in the newspaper under "no mercy', not because there is no capacity or because the new Criminal Code is unlikely to allow short sentences. Don't worry, until December 1st there are a few months left. The proof of the pudding is in the eating. I sincerely hope that this Minister of Justice will succeed in driving the train that has been set in motion and ensuring that the sentence can be executed correctly. This means that everything is being properly carried out and that a judge can impose the appropriate and appropriate punishment, which does not always have to be a prison sentence for me. I sincerely hope that the current Justice Minister can bring to a successful conclusion what has been set in motion by former ministers De Clerck, Turtelboom and Geens. I think society would benefit. If this fails, we will only be able to see on 1 December that there has been a totally misleading communication. From the pudding, which has to be eaten, only sour pudding remains and those who have to eat from it will get their way, so that might turn out very badly. Colleagues, we will have a meeting on 1 December. I look forward to it. Minister Van Peteghem, I hope you will convey that message to your colleague as well. Perhaps now you can even answer how things should be resolved. Our group will be voting in favour of this draft law because it is a step in the right direction. That's how constructive we are. We'll meet again on December 1st. We'll see if we can clean out a nice sweet pudding together, or whether it's going to be sour pudding.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u122	Minister of Justice, you would make justice faster, more human and more criminal, and I assume together with you that the entire government will make justice faster. Just last week, this statement was spread in the media with a great deal of bravado as a result of the additional resources you received as Minister of Justice. It's a pretty good amount of money anyway. Today there's a bill here. If I am not mistaken, it is the first draft law for the reform of criminal law implementing legislation that still had to be finalised. In our view, Minister, this draft law does not really prove that justice will become more criminal, quite the contrary. A number of punctual adjustments are made to the procedure for the award by the criminal enforcement judge of the terms of sentence to the sentenced persons to be punished for three years or less. Whoever gets less than six months today won't spend half a day in prison in practice. Those who get less than three years are almost always given the benefit of electronic supervision, with a few exceptions. The Law of 17 May 2006, subsequently amended by the Law of 5 May 2019, did indeed register the possibility for short-term punishments to apply for the modalities of limited detention and electronic supervision from the point of view of freedom. That's right. Our group was against this twice at the time. In practice, the two laws are still not operational today and there is still a need to regulate them in order to allow for their effective practical implementation. That's right. It is true that there is not yet a procedure for making the application from the point of view of freedom. Strictly legal, that is indeed an obstacle. With the draft law you want to fit a sleeve on this and make that possible. The criminal justice court will have more power and decide what should happen to every convicted person in the event of punishments under three years of age. There's a choice between an anklet, a prison sentence or parole. Until now, this has only been the case with penalties over three years old. Our group also welcomes the fact that in future the decision will no longer be taken by the administration, but by a judge, by a magistrate. Despite the Minister's raging statements last week, there is absolutely no guarantee that those convicted will also go to prison effectively. I will not criticize the specific content of the various articles. In fact, the debate today is not about this. I expressly stress that it will not be an obligation to automatically allow electronic surveillance or limited detention. Today we do not receive a reply from the Minister. For the sake of clarity, I do not blame you for not knowing that dossier in detail, Mr Van Peteghem. It's not your jurisdiction either. If I had not made the point to Minister Van Quickenborne, he would have thrown it in my face and said that the automatic allocation of electronic supervision or limited detention is not an obligation. It is also mentioned literally in this way in the explanatory memorandum. For example, I read that it is not appropriate to "sensitise the judges in order not to apply certain penalties or less for the sole reason that the prison population would increase'. It also states that the legislator has chosen to allow short prison sentences. I have absolute doubts as to whether this will be achieved in practice. The draft law makes it possible, in practice, for short-term punishments to receive the favor of applying for limited detention and electronic supervision, entirely from freedom, without having to stay in prison for one day in order to go through the procedure. Therefore, pending the decision of the Criminal Enforcement Court (SURB), the sentenced person may be granted a one-off suspension of the enforcement of the custodial sentence. This can only be granted to the convicted person who spontaneously follows up on the prison letter, the so-called self-offering. He is also being responsive to contribute to the composition of his file. Certain crimes are excluded, such as sexual and terrorist offences. That would be lacking. Convicts who pose a serious threat to the physical or psychological integrity of third parties are also excluded. However, I wonder how this will and can be assessed before the SURB ruling. The College of Attorneys General is given the task - at least as we read in the explanatory statement - of drawing up guidelines for a uniform working method for the public prosecutors, including in the case of the prison note and the injunction. But then I read in the explanatory statement and I quote: 'In this way, the condemned and society are given a clear signal that the custodial sentences are being effectively implemented'. I find this particularly remarkable, because it is not in line with the content of the draft law. It's even a little off. What the immediate granting of the favour of electronic surveillance or limited detention now has to do with the effective execution of custodial sentences is not clear to me at all. More than that, it doesn't add up. The draft law creates the possibility that the convicted person will never be deprived of his freedom. I have already said that electronic surveillance can be applied for from the very outset, and the restriction of the freedom of the convicted person who enjoys electronic surveillance is very relative. We have to be very honest about that. The convicted person receiving electronic surveillance must comply with a number of conditions which will be imposed in the future by the criminal enforcement court. Those conditions depend on the person and the crime that is committed. There's a schedule to be followed. For example, that person can work perfectly, but he must give up beforehand when he or she will be home or not. He can also take an education. If he has no income, he will receive a living allowance; that is not a federal competence, but a competence of the Communities. You can't equate that with an effective custodial sentence, can you? Purely technical and legal, I cannot comment on the content of this draft law. However, I would like to ask a fundamental question. Do we really need to give priority to this bill when there are other societal priorities? Let me give you an example. The Minister of Justice announced the draft sexual criminal law bill a long time ago. It would be there first at Easter and today we are almost ready for recess. Until today, 23 June, we have still not received any text. I read somewhere that there would be a preliminary draft sent to the Council of State. However, this document is on the list of drafts which the Minister of Justice wants to discuss before the recess. Even if that was a so-called priority, we still haven't seen a letter on paper. However, Minister, this is something that the people are awake for, and this is something that we are really asking for. If the Minister of Justice is serious about dealing with the perpetrators, come up with something of which the people are awake, at least much more than this draft law. If we look at the figures on the problem of sexual assault and rape, I do not need to convince you that this draft is absolutely a priority. Another example that was also on his wish list to realize before the recess was the bill to make Justice more powerful, more humane and faster. In the meantime, however, that has disappeared from the list. However, these are two things that deserve priority. I repeat, I am not making any comments in purely technical and legal terms, but there is also a political dimension to legislative work, and here the Minister of Justice is totally wrong. During the discussion in committee, I referred briefly to all the fine promises in the policy letter and policy statement. Our group was able to support a large part of this. However, the punitive promises made at the beginning of this legislature, which promise the citizens that any form of crime will be dealt with in a firm and punitive manner, will be invalidated by the present draft law. At the time, it sounded as follows: "Strikes are only effective if they are actually carried out and in order to carry out the short sentences, we provide for adapted capacity with a lower level of security." I quote the Minister of Justice, because I am watching over it not to be caught. Mr De Wit already referred to the statements made by Minister Van Quickenborne on the additional resources that Justice will receive and the related investment plan. However, for the sake of clarity, a large part of the measures announced, which is not today's debate, our group will support, if he is really serious about their implementation. I would like to quote a few statements in the media about the additional resources, not on the basis of the present draft: anyone who gets a short sentence will also have to serve them. We will eliminate impunity. Whoever gets 15 days in jail will have to serve them effectively. No more avoiding the real verdict. Or still: Any convicted person who is sentenced to prison in the future must end up in prison in the future. Those who are sentenced to three years in prison today hardly ever see the inside of a cell. That creates a sense of impunity. These are not my words, but some of the quotes made by the Minister of Justice last Wednesday following the press conference and also following various newspaper interviews and statements in the media. I do not regret these statements, but they must be translated into practice. It must not be merely a matter of punitive statements in the media. I believe that the Minister's statements were immediately strongly criticised, because the practical implementation is impossible because of the lack of space in prisons. That's a very big bottleneck. "How many additional prisons will the Minister build to make those punishments effective" sounded narrowing to some experts. The same experts also immediately warned that prisoners would demand a huge amount of prisons on an organisational level. Who will be able to keep the overview in such a pigeon loft, despite the extra staff that is promised? "I sincerely hope that the Minister will find sufficient staff," said other criticism. The Minister indeed announced that new prisons would be built. However, they will not be in place by 1 December 2021, the date of entry into force of this draft law. In the long term, the many new places are likely to be full again. Meanwhile, they're suing the prison staff for being on his gums. Even with the announced new prisons already in the master plan, the places will remain insufficient and the current lack of space will continue. As I said, powerful punishments were announced last week. It had to be over with impunity. These are principles which support the vast majority of the population, but once again, this draft law sends a totally wrong signal to the citizen, who has long been a party to the actual execution of judgments. The chances that short-term punishment will actually end up in prison are particularly low. Those sentenced to 15 days today will never end up in prison, despite the tough language of the minister. The real verdict will keep avoiding the convict. Colleagues, that is a totally wrong signal to the citizen, but it is also a totally wrong signal to the magistrate. When the judge pronounces a particular sentence, whatever its scope, and however short or long it may be, it is in the vast majority of cases really a well-considered, thoroughly considered sentence, which the judge hopes it will be carried out. If politics, with the executive power and Parliament, has respect for the magistracy, it must also show the necessary respect for the judges in the proper courts. They deserve that. They must ensure that any sentence that is pronounced, no matter how small or large, is actually implemented. I do not know whether the Minister of Justice realizes how often short prison sentences under three years are claimed by the prosecution and are pronounced by the judge, not only in the correct courts, but also, and above all, increasingly by the police courts. Rightly so, for example, when it comes to seriously recidivising road pirates or people who are driving under the influence of alcohol and drugs or people who ignore a life-long driving ban. Unfortunately, Minister, I have to confirm from the practical point of view that this is becoming more and more common. Society must be able to assume that the penalties imposed are actually implemented and are not converted into a weakened version of the sentence imposed, in particular electronic surveillance or conditional release. But then there must be consequences in the policy of persecution in this country. The penalty sought and imposed must not depend on the substitute seeking the sentence or on the judge giving the sentence. Let me give you a very topical example. I also gave it as an illustration in committee last week. It concerns the application of penalties under the corona measures. Colleagues, for the record, I will not discuss the need to address the corona infringements. Corona infringements must be dealt with correctly in a more or less uniform manner. I also admit that I only speak of Antwerp. The legislation in the other districts may be applied in a uniform way, but in Antwerp it is not. Every week in Antwerp there are a number of so-called corona sessions at the police court. What do we determine? For the sake of clarity, I am also talking about first offenders, not recidivists. Some people are given the opportunity by the substitute to carry out a work sentence, for example working in a vaccination centre, which is a very useful punishment. Others will be fined EUR 250 in most cases. They're getting off easier and shouldn't be doing community service. However, they have to cough up as much as 250 euros. However, other young people who commit a first offence must appear before the police court, where the substitute is seeking effective imprisonment for one month to three months and a fine of EUR 100 to 300, which must not be forgotten to be multiplied by eight. So there is a certain discrepancy between those penalties. Attention should also be paid to this. There has to be more uniformity. The Flemish Interest Group fully supports last week's tough announcements. Any convict who gets a prison sentence must do it. The prison sentences for which we require effective execution must be carried out quickly and shortly after the facts, as a kind of shock effect, but not years later. Well, then it doesn't really make much sense anymore. That's where the shoe often pinches in our country. A lot of procedures drag on for a long time, sometimes years. The slowness with which the judicial mill often grinds is terrifying. That too needs to be addressed. Finally, this draft law is a totally wrong signal to the victims. For a victim too, the facts on which this is concerned remain serious, even though they may be objectively, from a criminal point of view, about less serious forms of crime. These can lead to severe trauma, which can sometimes continue to haunt the victim for life. The Flemish Interest Group will therefore not approve this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u123	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the execution of all the prison sentences, even the shortest, is a crucial point for the MR in the fight against recidivism. Indeed, we are convinced that the execution of all sentences helps to combat the feeling of impunity - one of the drivers of recidivism. Offenders must be aware that if they commit an offence, they will be punished and that the penalty will be effectively enforced. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we welcome the entry into force on 1 December of the procedure for granting the procedure for the execution of sentences by the judge for the enforcement of sentences for convicted persons with sentences of three years or less - this concretizing the execution of the short sentences envisaged since 2006, according to the Act of 17 May 2006 now executed. Tomorrow, all convicted persons will be granted measures on the basis of individual decisions taken by the judiciary in each situation: the judge for the enforcement of sentences for sentences of three years or less, the court for the enforcement of sentences for sentences of more than three years. We welcome the solution that has been found so that those sentenced to less than 18 months can obtain limited detention or electronic surveillance. But since this solution requires the voluntary presentation of the convicted person to the prison at the time of receipt of his prison note, like many colleagues, Mr.Minister, we ask you to relay to your colleague in charge of justice to remain very careful that the convicted persons in the conditions receive the information first. This requires the training of magistrates who will have to give the information during the trial; this requires the training of criminal lawyers, but also and above all of pro deo lawyers. This requires the creation of a brochure, since it is not necessary for only convicted persons with the services of an experienced lawyer to receive the information and to arrive at a sort of differentiated justice. Finally, we appreciate the fact that this project was discussed in the Justice Committee after the interdepartmental conference of the houses of justice, which brought together the Minister of Justice and the ministers of the houses of justice of the three Communities. Overtaking would have been a bad signal. Dialogue between federated entities and the federal entity is essential to ensure the effectiveness of the measure. The electronic bracelets will have to follow, the capacity of the houses of justice too. All of this requires coordination which takes time, but which is also necessary in the structure of our State. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the MR will vote on this without hesitation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u124	Minister Van Peteghem, ladies and gentlemen, I regret that the Minister of Justice is not here to defend his bill. At the PTB, we also believe that submitting a parole application to a court rather than an administration is a guarantee of legal certainty and better follow-up. However, I am concerned about the impact of this law on prison overcrowding. We know that it will result in an influx of prisoners into our prisons. The minister had recognized this during the debate on his policy note. Its policy will lead to an increase in the inflow of detainees from 400 to 600 per day. It is absolutely huge and particularly worrying when we know that our prisons are already overcrowded. We must also take into account the context in which this reform is being carried out. The purpose of this bill is to entrust a new task to the sentencing courts. However, they were already in short supply of judges and staff to monitor detainees. They're accused of a significant backlog of cases. The bill will aggravate this situation. I'm not alone in relaying these concerns. Experts also seized the debate, on the substance of the law as such, but also as Tom Daems, criminologist at KUL, who expressed his fears about the ability of our prison system to accommodate so many new prisoners. In particular, it recalls that the prisons in Haren and Dendermonde will not be available at the earliest until the end of 2022, at the beginning of 2023. I recall that the Minister of Justice, asked at the end of last year, acknowledged that these projects would not be able to keep pace with the increase in the number of inmates. In these circumstances, we asked the committee to hold hearings to assess the impact of this project. We would have sought their advice from criminologists and experts, the judiciary or the prison sector, including the trade unions of agents, who will have to deal with the consequences of this policy. That was refused. What do people think about the field? What will be the impact of this bill on our prisons? These are key issues, and we wanted to organize a real social debate on the enforcement of sentences. The majority is so sure of it that it does not consider it useful to open this debate. We will therefore abstain from this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u125	Madam Chair, Mr.Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to speak for a few minutes on this bill in order to share with you a number of urgent comments made by lawyers.be, which were not taken into account in the debates in the Justice Committee. The bill under consideration is aimed at making a number of ad hoc adjustments in the procedure for granting sentences to convicted persons with custodial sentences of three years or less. The aim of this legislative amendment is to improve the practical application of the procedure. We did not approve the 2019 law because the prison sentence must remain, in our view, the ultimate remedy. However, this Act enforces sentences of less than three years. As it will come into force, it is essential to allow convicted persons to obtain as many alternatives as possible to the penalty, such as electronic bracelets, limited detention or parole. Avocats.be highlighted a few points and wanted changes to be made. I am thinking in particular of the 15-day time limit granted to the defendant to draw up his file, which is too short, especially if he wants to consult a lawyer, a possibility which the prison director must inform him of. I am also thinking of the limited detention which must be granted or examined if electronic surveillance is refused. In addition, the lack of support is discriminatory and will exclude disadvantaged persons from alternative measures to detention. Prison is only too often a place where people from disadvantaged backgrounds find themselves. The same discrimination applies to persons without a residence permit. The power to issue a warrant cannot rest with the prosecutor and is contrary to the law which does not permit immediate arrest for convictions of less than three years. Moreover, no recourse is possible. I find it a pity that these observations have not been taken into account, or at least discussed, while lawyers are on the front line to know the difficulties of convicted persons and to enable them to obtain, as far as possible, an appropriate and dignified sanction, without any discrimination. My group will abstain from this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u126	Madam President, like some of my colleagues, you will allow me to begin by regretting the absence of the Minister of Justice in this debate. It's still not a small project. We're talking about a project that will inevitably have an impact on the lives of a number of people. I would have found it very valuable for the minister to be present in person. Since we have not been able to intervene in committee on this draft, I will quickly share a few remarks and highlight several points in the text that we believe deserve special attention. First, on the form, we see that the opinion of the Council of State has been fairly well respected and that the Communities have been involved in the drafting of the text. That's a very good thing. On the merits, we have a bill that implies that prison sentences of 18 months or more will result in an effective stay in prison. The Minister of Justice justifies this position for two main reasons. The first is that non-execution of short sentences would fuel a sense of public distrust of justice and send an erroneous message to the convicted person. The second is that judges must be able to impose fair and not too high sentences, given that shorter sentences were not being served. I hear the argument put forward in committee by my colleague Van Hecke: "In carrying out sentences of less than three years, we will stop the increase in the length of sentences handed down by the judge." However, I remain concerned, as my colleague Boukili and as the minister himself has acknowledged, about the potentially exponential increase in the number of detainees in the short term. I am aware that the Minister has taken steps to limit the negative impacts of this increase, including through investments in prison infrastructure. What worries me more is what the minister said in committee: "However, it will be difficult to combat the problem of overpopulation, which has existed for decades, but efforts will be made to achieve it". Here we are dealing with measures that will worsen in the short term but in a very intense way – from 400 to 600 prisoners a day – the overcrowding in prisons. We know that the situation is already very difficult to maintain, especially because of the shortage of staff, as the strike at Lantin prison highlighted again last week. It is felt, from the government's statements, that this dimension is in fact very little taken into account in the government's impact assessments on the prison system. Are there any estimates of the duration of this detention wave? When will the positive effects be expected? Did the Minister of Justice draw on similar measures taken in other countries? What will be the impact on the rights of prisoners? The Minister also referred to the filling of the executive staff of the sentencing courts. Will this filling be sufficient to prevent this overpopulation? It also appears necessary to ensure that detainees are distributed in a manner that respects their needs, including linguistic, family and social needs. Has the government considered the impact of these measures on each prison? In view of the large number of issues that remain, I would like to draw the government's attention to the potential perverse effects that a brief but intense increase in the number of prisoners will cause. This is not a criticism but a warning. We will need to be careful and predictable in order to avoid imposing a disproportionate burden on inmates and prison staff. In addition to the problem of overcrowding in prisons, I am pleased that persons sentenced to sentences of less than 18 months may apply for limited detention or for electronic surveillance by being free. This is an excellent thing because it will avoid many unnecessary return trips to prison. Finally, I also welcome the fact that in future it will be up to the judge rather than the administration to assess who can benefit from a sentence execution modality. The independence of justice is at stake. This amendment is therefore entirely appropriate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u127	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister Van Quickenborne has asked me to give a number of answers to the comments, among other things, about the fact that this draft law has to deal with a gap in practice so that the law will finally enter into force fully on 1 December 2021, including the provisions on penalties under three years. I will, of course, pass on the message about more transparent communication. I do not need to explain to you that in newspaper articles, let alone their titles, not all nuances are displayed. This must of course be taken into account. Mrs De Wit, since some of your questions have already been answered in the Committee on Justice, it is less relevant to answer them now. You asked a question about the capacity problem. For that, I would like to refer to the Minister of Justice. He will also propose the new Criminal Code in the Justice Commission. The timing for this is, by the way, early 2022. Mrs Dillen, today all convictions under three years of age are settled on the basis of transmissive letters and the almost automatic granting of the favour of penalties. This changes, because every criminal execution judge will have to examine an individual file in order to analyse whether the convicted person is eligible for the favor of e.g. electronic surveillance or limited detention and see whether it is not better to spend the custodial sentence in prison. If the judge considers that a sentence of six months should be carried out in prison, that will also be possible. As is also the case with penalties above three years, one can benefit from electronic surveillance six months before one can benefit from conditional release. The Minister of Justice says that he does not see why that would be allowed for punishments above three years, but not for punishments below three years. The Council of State's opinion on sexual criminal law was long overdue. They didn't receive it until the end of May. The College of Attorneys-General, in turn, did not deliver its opinion until last week, despite the fact that the question was already asked at the beginning of April. The Minister of Justice is coming to Parliament very soon with the draft on sexual criminal law, but it would be a shame, while that draft is before the Council of State, not to discuss any other drafts in the meantime. A final opinion from the Council of State is also awaited on the text bill. Then there was the question about the capacity of the prisons. The law provides for wide transitional provisions, so that the influx into prisons will proceed gradually. The simulation of population growth is calculated at 720 people. The transition houses are also being expanded. New detention homes are already being set up in the short term. In other words, the government is expanding capacity. This was also explained several times in the Committee on Justice. Mr. Pivin, all the information is under way. In this way, brochures will be produced in consultation with the Communities, and webinars for magistrates will be organized in collaboration with the Judicial Training Institute. Mr Boukili, the increase in the population will be real, but this increase will only take place in the first instance, because in a second stage, since we have set up a virtuous circle of execution of sentences, the prison population will decrease. Finally, Mrs Matz, with regard to the opinion of lawyers.be, I would point out that the preparation of the file is very short. For example, in the case of electronic surveillance, the day-to-day activities to be carried out and the agreement of the major cohabitants are to be communicated. As you can see, this information can be provided quickly. As far as the immediate arrest is concerned, this is a very technical question which it would be too long to answer here. I therefore propose that you introduce a written or oral question on this subject so that the Minister of Justice can give a precise answer. Again, of course, I am speaking on behalf of the Minister of Justice, because there is no point in asking me that question. Mr De Smet, the judges will be informed of the new rules and the positive effect. It will be explained to them that now all decisions will be implemented. He will be heavily invested in communication with judges.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u128	Minister, I will first respond to some of your comments. You couldn't stop laughing yourself when you said that the headlines already miss nuances in your colleague's statements. In all honesty, the minister literally said at a press conference last week: "No mercy anymore, 15 days are 15 days." Punishment! There's no nuance in that. So you can turn and turn as much as you like, it's about a minister's ruling, in presentations, to the press and even in committee. Secondly, I hear the Minister has sent your mobile or WhatsApp to say that everything has already been answered and discussed in committee. That is not true, but we will have enough opportunity to do so. It's a shame he's not here, and there's nothing you can do about it. With this draft law, the Minister does nothing more than implement a 2006 and 2019 law. He beats himself on the chest: "Look what I'm doing!" But he's executive power and he's actually doing nothing more than implementing legislation that's been adopted in this house for a long time. That's one thing. Besides, he's sending his cat! Madam President, I would like to maintain the serenity of the debate, but the Minister apparently has time to answer through WhatsApp and he was able to show with a flag for whom he would support today, rather than come here in this House to answer our questions and comments. Maybe I'm missing a nuance there, too, colleagues? Do we really have to let ourselves be laughed at that way? Do you think that's normal? The minister can't be here. Minister Van Peteghem is making a very brave attempt. That's why I've been holding back and I've been good. I haven't been a fool. I've stayed calm and asked questions. I want to start the debate and you are making the effort to answer it. However, if I find that the Minister does have time to pose with a flag on Twitter with the flag I have no problem, let there be no misunderstanding about it rather than being present in this house, then it is the last time I tolerate him not being there. I wanted to accept the discussion now because there was someone from the government, but that really was the last time. I do not think that the Minister's attitude is right! What can the Minister do? By the way, it was more pleasant to debate with Minister Van Peteghem, because Minister Van Quickenborne always becomes personal and attacks. Let me get this straight. He starts roaring and screaming, usually a sign of impotence. I'll calm down now, too, because I'm doing the same thing right now. I'm actually angry, Madam President. I've been sitting in this house for a long time, as a member of the opposition and as a member of the majority. Well, the way things are now, I've never seen that before. I hope you will also be President of the opposition for us. I hope you will stand up for us and raise the matter, because that is really not the way to do it anymore. Ladies and gentlemen, I have been a constructive Member of Parliament, always, but I am getting really angry right now. I find the attitude of the government unacceptable. I'm being sent out with a hoodie in the reeds, and that's not correct. But there may be a rematch tomorrow, unless the Minister does not show up for the budget debate. I'll be there in advance. You might be able to pass that on. I'll be back here in the morning. I will also make an appointment for September 2021 to check whether all his unsophisticated headlines will indeed become a reality. We shall wait and see.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u129	Madam President, I will not add any more. Mrs De Wit explained the problem well. I find it a pity that it was not considered important to deal with this bill seriously with hearings, with experts coming to give their opinion instead of doing so later in the press. That the minister does not consider it important to be there to defend the project because he is busy doing something else, I find it deplorable! I won't say any more. Having said that, Mr Van Peteghem, and through you, I am speaking to the Minister of Justice because he has given you his answers. When you say that the population will decrease thanks to a virtuous circle because more sentences will be executed, the prisons will eventually empty, I do not understand the logic! Today we are in a situation of overcrowding, which is pointed out every time by Europe, which has condemned Belgium on several occasions because it does not respect the terms in this regard. The minister himself tells us that this problem will take years to be resolved. On the other hand, when he comes to present his project, there as if by magic, there is an invisible hand that, with the help of a virtuous circle, will empty prisons by the application of his bill! What is the logic? At some point, you have to be serious! In the absence of a well-thought-out prison policy to reduce prison overcrowding, does he believe that prisons will empty themselves? You have to be serious at some point! This law will aggravate the situation and there is no point in hiding behind great phrases of the style "a virtuous circle"! This law will aggravate the situation and the experts have confirmed it. I do not know if we have read the same press in recent days, but academicians and criminologists have spoken in this direction and the government does not want to hear them. Instead, he sweeps these remarks from the back of his hand instead of taking them seriously. That's not how we're going to move forward. It is not in this way either that prison overcrowding will decrease. The minister himself acknowledged it. Moving forward with such meaningless arguments to defend a bill denounced by the experts is a matter of disrespect for democratic debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u130	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u131	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1979/4) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1979/4) The bill has 17 articles. The draft law contains 17 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u132	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u133	I propose that you devote one general discussion to these two bills. I propose that a single general discussion be devoted to these two draft laws. [[Assent]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u134	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs, Mr Rigot, Mrs Matz and Mr Segers, refer to their written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u135	Madam President, my colleague, Mr Francken, who held the discussions in committee, is excused today. I'll replace him here today. They're big shoes to fill and I'll do it to the best of my ability. I refer in particular to our interventions in committee. We are in favour of student migration, because it can have enormous added value. The emphasis is on the word 'kan'. After all, student migration can counter the preponderance of passive migration that we know today. As a result, there is a pronounced negative perception of migration in this country. This is facilitated by the preponderance of passive migration. We have heard in several hearings that this is 'unique' for our country, as this is not the case in other countries. Many countries, for example Canada, are really committed to active migration. Student migration is one part of that. In committee, we gave the draft the benefit of the doubt and abstained from the vote. Now, however, we shall be voting against the draft because it is really inadequate, both in terms of its approach and in terms of its content. Let me summarize our main criticisms. As far as the approach is concerned, this draft shows very little respect for the sector, the Länder and Parliament. That seems to be a constant feature of this government, which is always forgotten. However, we have asked for hearings with the sector. Since it's about student migration, it makes sense to hear important partners like universities. However, that proposal has been wiped off the table. There has already been an effective delay and the government has already been called upon to transpose this directive, but that delay has been going on for three years. The fact that we cannot spend a week on holding hearings, so that the transposition is at least in line with the sector, does not really apply to us. We do not think it is appropriate at that time, especially when we look at important educational institutions such as the KU Leuven, which still has many concerns about this issue. It's a university with thousands of foreign students. It is for such institutions that such laws are being made today. There is no consultation with the sector, but also with the Länder. We find that very strange. Is that the federalism of cooperation that this government had in mind? If we are well informed, today, on the day that the law is put to the vote, there was still a rapid consultation with the cabinet. There would have been consultation with the Cabinets of CD&V before. When these Cabinets are manned by the N-VA, that consultation is apparently no longer necessary. That's not gonna work for us. It's the quality of a law that must prevail, isn't it? Cooperation to achieve this goal must be separate from the party card that people have. Secretary of State Mahdi really disappoints us in this, because he has set up an IMC with the aim of consulting structurally with the Länder. The first, large draft law in which this really should have been done, because education is a pronounced state matter, is not being discussed. That IMC would then be used to talk about integration, which is not directly a competence for the Secretary of State. We consider the approach to this point to be inadequate, but the content of the final design is also too weak. I have already said that student migration can be a great added value, but the student migration we know today is also polluted by people who use it to commit fraud. The present draft could have been put in order by giving priority to those who are well-intentioned, highly educated people who come here to study or do research, and finally getting rid of the fraud that we know about here, but that has not happened. However, this is really necessary, given the figures and the problems with students from Cameroon, which we have discussed several times in committee with the Secretary of State. He also recognizes this situation as problematic, and so we find it incomprehensible that he has not included in the draft the necessary guarantees against fraud. We have offered them on a plate in committee, but they have been wiped off the table, which is why we are happy to give them the opportunity to go into it. There has been consultation with the Länder today, so perhaps the spirits have matured to take the amendments in detail for a reading and to approve them. I'll run them over. Our amendments do, however, want to provide guarantees against fraudulent practices, primarily by focusing more on financial self-sufficiency and its control by means of the guarantee scheme we are proposing. This practice is already being applied by some institutions with a blocked account today. The smaller institutions may need additional support for this, but that is why alignment with the sector is so important. This could be done perfectly through, for example, the VLIR or the ARES. At least that signal should be given and use encouraged. This is really a necessity in the fight against fraud and to ensure financial accountability, so that the students do not have to go to the OCMW and build up debts, which cannot then be recovered because the guarantor has disappeared with the northern sun. These are practices that we unfortunately see. In addition to the guarantee scheme, we would also have liked to have defined the minimum amount, to which the directive also gives the possibility, with an amount of EUR 835 per month, of means of subsistence, in order to ensure combined financial self-sufficiency. A second proposal to put an end to fraudulent practices, which was also our amendment, is to limit the excessive length of study, with trisses and bisses, in order to prolong the stay unnecessarily, although study or research does not come into the house very much. Our ready-made proposal on this matter has been wiped off the table in the committee. Hopefully the spirits are sufficiently mature today to consider the proposal. We also have a third proposal to combat fraudulent practices and to make better use of the security aspect. We have proposed not to withdraw the residence voluntarily, but to withdraw it when there are important facts of public order, such as fraud. The decision must, of course, always be proportionate and justified. For us, it is clear that those who come here to take advantage of our hospitality must be given the signal that a stay is not possible, both for the renewal and for the application itself. This could also reduce the workload in this area. In order to better respond to these fraud practices, we have proposed a better follow-up to this year of search, which we warmly welcome, for example with regard to the level of the job that is being carried out. It must be in line with the studies that have been followed. The main aim of this Directive is to attract high profiles and to give them every opportunity. In that case, it is only logical that the search year to be registered here is in line with the studies that have been carried out and the research that has been carried out. Finally, the amendment that we are no longer tabling today was our proposal to examine the substance of the application, a bit like the Diallo judgment. We are very surprised that the directive would not allow this. It is because there is doubt that we are not going to table the amendment again today. If we had had the time, this could at least have been examined and, for example, an opinion from the Council of State or the Court could have been requested. Then we could have investigated this possibility. We find it strange that it could not be registered under this directive, whereas the Diallo judgment makes it quite clear that if an application is not assessed on the substance, it cannot be automatically converted into an award. As far as our proposals are concerned, which are designed to combat fraud and improve the substance of the issue of student migration, particularly in the financial field. The aim of the second part of our amendments is to create added value in student migration by focusing better on early integration, both by obtaining a language certificate and by providing proof of our commitment to our values and standards. As far as the language test is concerned, it is quite clear that this can be done. The directive allows that too. I also refer to our earlier work on this subject, where we ask that a language test be provided for, for example, family reunification or foreign care providers. Like the students mentioned, they are people who come here to study, and it makes sense that anyone who comes here to study is in charge of the language of the region. With the search year, we really want to attract higher profiles, which are likely to perform a job here. It is important that early efforts are made to acquire the language. Finally, there is another amendment that we do not retable for the same reason as Diallo: the attestation of values and standards. We think it is very important, especially in the context of the search year, that the person who comes here should sign a very clear statement that he supports our values and standards. There was also a discussion on whether the directive would allow this. If Parliament had had had the time to have a say in such a law, an opinion could have been requested from the Council of State or the Court of Justice, as with our Diallo proposal, to see if it could have been registered in this way. Because there is doubt as to whether the directive allows it, it is not being re-tabled today. This is, of course, what is happening with our proposal on language, because that is what the directive specifically provides for. To sum up, we will not support this proposal today, because we believe that there is a lot of work on the table in terms of student migration to make this a positive story. This can also be an important factor in improving the perception of migration by focusing much more on high profiles and making migration a positive story, like countries like Canada. As with many of Vivaldi's other proposals, we find that there has again been no coordination with the sector, nor with the Länder, which nevertheless have an important competence in the field of education. The content does not provide sufficient guarantees against fraud and for integration. That is why our group will not support this proposal today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u136	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will not repeat everything that has already been said in committee, but I would like to warn you. At first sight, the draft law before us calls for the transposition of the directive to be based on good intentions and cannot be opposed. Attract smart students and strengthen their capacities to subsequently engage them in our society, that all sounds good, but anyone who looks a little further still encounters some naivety. This whole model is based on the Anglo-Saxon model in which students with great potential are lured into a global war on talent. Many Flemish students also opt for this model. As a former student in law and student representation, I have experienced it all too often myself. Anyone who wants to get a chance to get a job has to spend a very expensive year at a British or American university first. Many of those clever Flemings stay in those countries afterwards. From that point of view, the Anglo-Saxon model certainly does not miss its purpose. However, the big difference with our model is that the Anglo-Saxon model works with very strict, mostly objective criteria and that in most cases a lot of evidence and guarantees have to be provided, so that the country in question can be sure that students come for the right reasons and not to benefit or disappear into illegality after their so-called study period. It is just those criteria that are not included in the Belgian system, which has been imposed on us by the EU. Firstly, our universities are financed and organized in a completely different way than the Anglo-Saxon universities. For years I was on the board of directors of Ghent University and I have seen many times how the money tap opened and every bit of critical thinking disappeared from the moment it was about the magic words diversity and internationalization. The Flemish universities today compete more on interuniversity statistics on diversity and internationalisation than on research quality or the value of their diplomas. Everyone who comes from abroad is welcomed with open arms because the bill is for the taxpayer. Secondly, our policy-makers, both at Belgian and European level, are far more naive than their Anglo-Saxon colleagues and are fully open to profiteers and people with bad intentions, who have found an easy alternative migration route through their student visa. A look at the statistics teaches us that right away. Countries such as Congo, Morocco and Cameroon are major suppliers of so-called students. There may be an exception, but the rule is that we lose far more to these so-called students than we win as a society. One of the first questions I asked in this Parliament was one to former Minister of Asylum and Migration Mrs De Block on the abuse of student visas as a migration route and then specifically on the widespread abuse among Cameroonian so-called students. Thousands of Cameroonians submit applications for student visas and the Foreign Affairs Office itself admits that fraud is a recurring pattern there. We should have tackled this as a priority rather than squeezing our eyes at this massive fraud. The non-existent added value of this group can therefore not really be discussed, but we can also ask ourselves a few more questions in other groups, for example in the very large group of Chinese students. I'm sure there will be a lot of them with the very best intentions, but isn't it extremely naive not to ask questions about a communist dictatorship that massively sends its sons and daughters to the world's best universities to acquire European knowledge and then use it to continue competing with us in the most unfair way? I'll ask myself those questions. I was actually hoping that the creators of this bill would do the same. The Flemish Interest Group will continue to denounce the many abuses and continue to plead for the use of student visas for which they are really intended, and that is not an alternative channel of migration. The Flemish Interest Group supports the war on talent, but this government is fighting that battle on the wrong front. Let's see how we can better keep talents of our own soil in our own country, instead of losing young entrepreneurs and students with great potential to work abroad.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u137	Madam Chair, we have already had the opportunity in committee to speak on these two bills. The first project is a great step forward which clarifies a number of situations and allows for a certain stabilization of the situation of the students. On the other hand, we have much more objections, and we have said so forcefully, to the second student bill. To this end, we have tabled an amendment which concerns the effective remedies to which students may be entitled in the event of refusal. This aspect seems particularly essential to us. We are almost convinced that with a text such as this we will be condemned internationally because we do not respect in Belgium a right which is guaranteed by the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, namely the right to an effective remedy. Study visas last for one year, in principle renewable until the end of studies. Like every right guaranteed by European law, the right to a visa must be accompanied by an effective remedy. However, the only existing action is an action for suspension and annulment before the Conseil du Litigation des Étrangers. Such an appeal shall be dealt with as soon as possible in six months or even one year. Such a time limit therefore does not guarantee an effective remedy within the meaning of Article 47 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. It is in this sense that we have tabled an amendment in order to guarantee this effective remedy as well as to eliminate the suspensive effect of removal measures affecting a student. Indeed, even if the opinion of the Council of State was favourable, in the sense that the draft did not raise any difficulties of principle with regard to the right to an effective remedy, I felt that this provision constituted a restriction in the law of aliens. We have therefore tabled in our amendment a part of the amendment in this respect. I would really like to stress the effective remedy in relation to the study visa, because it would be very embarrassing to be condemned on this point and to have to adapt our legislation, whereas it would simply be enough to adopt directly the amendment that we have tabled. We draw the attention of the majority to this point of law which is essential and guarantees the effectiveness of a remedy for all foreign students. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u138	I will be very brief, Madam President, because I understand that many comments have already been made in committee. I should like to point out that there was a meeting this afternoon with Flemish Minister Weyts' cabinet to answer specific questions about the draft law. These consultations took place very constructively and all the questions asked were answered. This consultation was, of course, only one of many that took place in preparation for this legislative work. I am thinking of the VLIR, the different universities, the FWO, the big student cities, the ARES, you name it. That is important, I believe, to mention here. By the way, Mrs Van Camp's very specific question on the language test was also discussed with the Weyts cabinet this afternoon. The language requirement for access to higher studies is a competence of the Regions and educational institutions. Of course, we encourage the educational institutions to check that a student complies with the language conditions prior to registration. If the person concerned is unable to register for this reason, he will also not meet the conditions for a student residence. I will also give a brief answer to Mr Van Langenhove's question on fraud. Additional measures were, of course, taken in 2021. There has also been consultations with Foreign Affairs to send temporary reinforcements to the diplomatic post in Yaoundé, if necessary due to an influx of applications. In April 2021, the DVZ also organised a two-day training course for post and IFC staff. We've been working with the IFC for three years. That is a work in progress, but that cooperation is getting better and better. The procedure will be further streamlined and further alignment between the different partners will be achieved. A FAQ was also prepared for the diplomatic post of the State Department and the DVZ, so that a standard answer to frequently recurring questions can be given immediately. Communication on the maximum treatment period of 90 days and the interest of the future student to submit his application in time takes into account the last date for registration at the university, 31 October. On the website it is therefore communicated to the students that they are best placed to submit their application before 31 July. A great deal of additional efforts and measures have been made in this area. To conclude, Mrs Matz, with regard to the amendment, the Council of State has clearly stated in its opinion to this draft law that the remedies proposed in this bill are an effective remedy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u139	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u140	We shall now proceed to the discussion of the articles of Bill No. 1980. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1980/5) We shall begin by discussing the articles of Bill No. 1980. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1980/5) The title has been amended by the committee to "draft law amending the Act of 15 December 1980 on access to the territory, residence, establishment and expulsion of foreigners with regard to students". The title was changed by the Committee to 'draft law amending the law of 15 December 1980 on entry into the territory, residence, establishment and expulsion of foreign nationals as regards students'. The bill has 31 clauses. The draft law has 31 articles. * * * * * * *
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u141	• 14 - Theo Francken cs (1980/6)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u142	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled, the articles that have been adopted and the whole will take place later. We shall now proceed to the discussion of the articles of Bill No. 1981. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1981/4) We shall begin by discussing the articles of Bill No. 1981. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1981/4) The title has been amended by the committee to "draft law amending article 39/79 of the Act of 15 December 1980 on access to the territory, residence, establishment and expulsion of foreigners with regard to students". The title was changed by the Committee to "draft law amending Article 39/79 of the Law of 15 December 1980 on entry into the territory, residence, establishment and expulsion of foreign nationals as regards students." The bill has two articles. The draft law has two articles. * * * * * * *
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u143	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved article as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled, the Rule that has been adopted and the whole will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u144	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u145	Madam President, at the first reading at the committee meeting of 9 June 2021, the State Secretary explained the draft law. The draft amends the procedure for the Council of Foreign Ministers by making it more digital and ensuring that the procedure is better adapted to the work situation created by the pandemic. On the one hand, electronic communications to and from the Council are made possible, and on the other, two new forms of purely written procedure are introduced. A written procedure may be activated, in particular at the request of the parties, and a special regime may also be activated where exceptional circumstances, such as the previous period of stringed-up measures, significantly limit the holding of a session. The N-VA supported the bill. The removal of the file deficit at the RVV is indeed an important point of attention for the N-VA. Electronic communication is of course a must today. The PS stated that the draft law is undoubtedly a step forward, which could give the RVV the opportunity to overcome the backlog. The PS noted with satisfaction that the draft law seeks to guarantee the rights of the defence, as the parties can always ask to be heard. It is important for the PS that the professions set up can be quickly examined in order to give the applicant an early ruling on the fate. Precisely support the draft law in its entirety. The coalition agreement rightly places a strong emphasis on computerisation and digitisation. During the government negotiations, the speaker himself strongly insisted on this aspect. I can confirm that, by the way. Concrete practical measures such as those contained in the draft law are important as they can have a substantial impact on the ground. The draft law is therefore consistent with a concern for good governance. According to Vooruit, the proposed written procedure struck a good balance between a smooth handling and a guarantee of procedural rights. At the request of PVDA-PTB, the committee then proceeded to a second reading of the draft without a legislative note. The Committee discussed the articles adopted at first reading at second reading at the meeting of 22 June 2021. During that second reading, PVDA-PTB argued in favour of easier and more efficient appeal procedures, but this should not be at the expense of asylum seekers and their lawyers. Furthermore, the PVDA-PTB considered that the King's design was given a great deal of powers, namely to determine the channels of communication to and from the Council for Aliens' disputes, and asked whether the draft law would not create additional thresholds. The PVDA asks whether communication by ordinary mail is still possible and insists that the normal procedure with sitting should remain the standard and the written procedure the exception. The delay should not be a reason for further written procedure. The PVDA is therefore more in favour of investing in more staff. In addition, questions arise about the contradiction of the debates when the decision-making power is placed before the courts. The CDH sees the benefits of digitalisation, but still has reservations about respect for certain fundamental rights. There is a fear that pressure will be placed on the most vulnerable to opt for a digital handling of their file, as they will get the impression that it would have a more favourable effect on the outcome of their proceedings. The Secretary of State clarified at second reading that the rights of asylum seekers and the work of lawyers are important, but that a ruling is also important within a reasonable time. Even today it is not possible to send an ordinary e-mail, because it does not give an acknowledgement of receipt, which is important for the procedure. The Secretary of State also stressed that contradiction is indeed essential and that it is monitored, including in written procedures. The normal procedure with seat is indeed the norm. According to the Secretary of State, there will be an increase in the number of attachés and magistrates at the RVV. However, this is independent of the design, which is purely committed in the efficient way of dealing with cases, by maintaining the full rights of each individual concerned. Furthermore, the Secretary of State agrees that modernisation in any domain should certainly not overlook the most vulnerable. He therefore made it clear that there is no pressure whatsoever and that in normal circumstances anyone who wishes to sit will receive one. The purely written procedure will be no more or no less favourable to any of the parties to proceedings. It is exactly the same procedure, with the same guarantee to explain the position. The draft was finally adopted by name vote with 14 votes to 1, with only PVDA-PTB voting against.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u146	Madam President, we had the opportunity at the committee to state that digitisation in procedures allows for greater efficiency in many cases. We have already had the opportunity to bring this matter to justice, on a number of projects that we have had to adopt in this context. But we have often said that the orality of the debates, that the present-day procedures are obviously much more favourable to the most fragile, the most precarious, those who have less access to writing. In this bill, we feel that the Secretary of State is trying to balance these two principles a little: on the one hand, efficiency, practicability, savings from digitalization and, on the other, respect for the rights of defence and fundamental rights. It does so through this possibility which is given, at each stage of the procedure, to request a face-to-face meeting and to do so orally instead of in writing and in digital format. However, we believe that there could be a complementary element to try to perfect this balance which must be established between two rights in the present situation. That is why we have tabled an amendment. We didn't do it in committee. We do it now. Why? Because the opinion of lawyers.be arrived after the second reading. We have therefore taken note of this opinion. This opinion proposes - and we have translated it into an amendment - that the burden of part of the presumption which is deduced from a lack of response be different. Currently, in the draft, since a party does not respond within 15 days to a request from a magistrate asking if there is agreement to work digitally, failure to respond means that the parties agree. This, of course, induces a form of automaticity, with more vulnerable audiences, who often understand our language less well, who are less literate. We are therefore introducing something that will not correspond to respect for the rights of everyone. That is why we propose to reverse, in this amendment, the presumption deduced from silence. We propose that this presumption implies a non-consent to access to the procedure. It seems to us that, with this correction, we get something more balanced. I submit this amendment to your sagacity. We believe that this does not change the general philosophy of the text, especially since we have limited it to situations that last over time and not to situations of pandemics. The text obviously provides for digitalisation during crises and pandemic problems. This is an exceptional measure and we obviously respect that. On the other hand, in the long term, we believe that this should not become a rule that would "crush" a part of the rights of people of foreign origin who would not have the opportunity to assert them properly. That is why we have tabled this amendment. With this amendment, we believe we can strike a certain balance between this imperative need to be more effective, but also this imperative and absolute constitutional necessity and enshrined in international treaties: respect for the rights of everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u147	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u148	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2034/3) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2034/3) The title has been amended by the committee to "draft law amending the Act of 15 December 1980 on access to the territory, residence, establishment and removal of aliens, with regard to the electronic communication of pleadings and the adaptation of the existing purely written procedure before the Council of the Litigation of Aliens". The title was changed by the Committee to "draft law amending the Law of 15 December 1980 on the admission, residence, establishment and removal of foreign nationals, on the electronic communication of procedural documents and on the adaptation of the existing purely written procedure to the Council for Foreign Affairs.' The bill has 12 clauses. The draft law has 12 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u149	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled, the articles that have been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u150	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: François De Smet, Sophie Rohonyi. The Committee on the Interior, Security, Migration and Administrative Affairs proposes to reject this bill. (1415/2) The Committee on Home Affairs, Security, Migration and Administrative Affairs proposes to reject this bill. (1415/2) In accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary session will decide on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and possibly the authors. Pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary shall decide on this proposal for rejection after hearing the rapporteur and, where appropriate, the proposers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u151	The rapporteurs, Mr Moutquin and Mrs Platteau, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u152	Madam President, I would like to speak before this House today in order to put each of us in front of his responsibilities. We all know that! At present, more than 150,000 people live in our country without a residence permit, sometimes for very long years. They are men, women, children who, for various reasons and at the end of different paths, have found themselves in Belgium and have sometimes resided there for five, ten, fifteen years or more. We cross them in the street, in public transport, in the mall, at work. Their children attend ours at school, at the sports club, at the swimming pool. They are sometimes neighbors, colleagues, acquaintances, friends and sometimes more than that. They have dreams and goals. They want to integrate or are sometimes even integrated for a long time. They want to work, bring home what to feed their family, have leisure, take a vacation, invest in their community. People in irregular residence are like you and me, except that they simply do not exist in the eyes of the state. They are, in other words, ghosts who cannot benefit from almost any social protection and are at the mercy of any ill-intentioned person who would have no scruples to take advantage of their situation. I am thinking in particular of the situation of Iman, a young Moroccan now regularised who arrived alone in Belgium in 2008. Last December, Iman denounced the practices of some vile employers by testifying to the poverty pay he received when she started working in subcontracting companies in our country. Can we accept that anyone in Belgium in 2021 works for five euros an hour? I don't think so, no! This is the case with Iman and many of his acquaintances. This is the reality of many undocumented people who have to choose between exploitation and the street every day. This lack of protection also results in the high vulnerability of undocumented persons to all kinds of violence that undermine their physical or moral integrity, including trafficking, trafficking in human beings, rape, domestic violence, racism and discrimination. Due to their situation of residence, the undocumented people fear to file a complaint, to be arrested and then deported. This is not all because the difficulties associated with the absence of a residence permit are visible on a daily basis. One remembers very well the shocking testimony, relayed by the press, of this eight-year-old, undocumented child, born in Brussels, who highlighted the difficult living conditions in which he and his family live without any prospect of change. "Our house is too tight," he said. "There's only one room. The biggest one is the living room. So we sleep in the living room, we play in the living room, we watch TV in the living room, we eat in the living room. I know there are children who don't like this confinement, but I, at every holiday period, live this confinement every year." So, ladies and gentlemen, when I hear the arguments put forward by some to evoke the status quo in which we are, I wonder where our values so dear to our Western democracies have passed for which we regularly fight collectively. Last summer, when we tabled this bill, we wanted to open the debate in a calm and constructive way, even though we were not yet psychologically prepared at the time for some of our colleagues, who were fervent advocates of this cause, to find themselves in the interval of feet and fists bound by a ultimately not very progressive government agreement on this subject. The idea was to introduce clear and objective criteria into the law for the regularization of undocumented persons in order to limit the government's discretion and increase transparency. In fact, nothing is well-saved, since, I would remind you, France did the same through the Valls circular in 2012. We have established that legal certainty, which is an essential principle protecting individuals from inconsistencies and frequent changes in the law, cannot be guaranteed for undocumented persons, on the one hand, because of the waves of regularization (1999 and 2009) which have led to temporal discrimination for persons who have submitted applications for regularization before and after these waves and, on the other hand, because of the somewhat inconsistent and untransparent practice of the Aliens Office in granting residence permits which results in persons appearing to be in similar situations being treated differently. This insecurity gives rise to a situation where undocumented persons cannot know in advance whether they can even claim a residence permit. This has several consequences. First, it gives rise to a lot of anxiety in the head of undocumented people who place in regularization many hopes that may prove to be in vain. Secondly, legal uncertainty allows the Aliens Office to act without proper control. It has a wide margin of discretion defined by the government and does not justify its decisions, which allows it to hide behind the opacity of the procedure. Thirdly, the lack of clarity in the regularization criteria makes the examination of applications more difficult for the Aliens Office itself, which significantly prolongs the processing of cases. It should be recalled that the actual time frame for processing such cases is three to four years. It is therefore precisely because regularisation is closely linked to human dignity that the strengthening of legal certainty is justified. And that is why we have proposed specific regularisation criteria that would be applied by an independent commission. All this to make the regularization procedure more respectful of the dignity of these women, men and children living on the margins of society. At the outset, when the text was introduced, some colleagues immediately rejected it as a bad bill. We know who they are. Others, on the other hand, have repeatedly expressed their support, in the press or in Parliament, for the principle of including regularisation criteria in the law, precisely in order to strengthen legal certainty. And I am speaking mainly to them today, ladies and gentlemen. I regret that our proposal was rejected and sent, at last rather quickly, without having been the subject of an in-depth debate. It is true that there are several ways to solve the problem of undocumented people, but our proposal had, at least, the merit of proposing one that we believe is rational and fair. Despite the many positive written opinions we have received from lawyers.be, the Human Rights League, ICRÉ, Samenlevingsopbouw and Minister Clerfayt's office, I regret to hear that we are escaping behind the new Asylum and Migration Code that is being drafted by Sammy Mahdi's cabinet. That is what my colleagues, particularly Socialists and Ecologists, have said in committee. However, I sincerely wonder how we could trust a Secretary of State who is subtly trying to reintegrate home visits into our legal order. It's a really open question. I would also like to stress that our proposal is part of a long-term reflection, which we have been feeding for many months with civil society, the Brussels Region, the trade unions and the undocumented people themselves, with the aim of drawing up constructive proposals. On 21 May, the Secretary of State reiterated his openness to consultations with the various regional offices. A consultation with Minister Morreale and Minister Clerfayt, both of whom have also expressed such a willingness, could lead to concrete, and especially human, proposals that have not yet been considered, including a reform of the single permit procedure. In general, we also consider it essential to work with the main stakeholders and civil society. I therefore appeal to the Vivaldi government to set up a broad dialogue, or even an interdepartmental conference, with all the parties concerned, in order to find real solutions to finally put an end to this phantom and non-right status. There is an urgent need, ladies and gentlemen. I think no one today is unaware of the devastating effects that the pandemic has had on undocumented people. It is not surprising to see that this past year has been so strongly marked by numerous calls and mobilizations of undocumented people, associations and citizens. We can mention the demonstrations of 28 August and 27 September 2020, 26 March, 2 May, 23 May, 17 June and 20 June 2021, the various occupations for more than 100 days in the Brussels universities and in the church of Beguinage, all the white maps published in the press, the calls of the Brussels universities, the occupation of the headquarters of the PS, the occupation, yesterday again, of the Office of Foreigners, etc. All these initiatives show that our citizens are worried and dismayed by the misery at the bottom of their homes. "We are Belgium too", it is a movement that denounces immobilism in Belgium, our immobilism, and whose demands only stand in a few words: in the eyes of the Belgians, the undocumented are also Belgium. More than 27,500 of our fellow citizens have signed a petition. Some of them were in this room, at the rostrum earlier. Representatives of the CSC, FGTB, MOC and ICRÉ, who were in the gallery of this Parliament, with a message of hope for all undocumented people, who have no prospect of a future. I'm sorry they were asked to leave, but I want to tell them we're here with them. For the time being, the Secretary of State remains strict and will not regularize, as we have understood. But are we really asking the right questions? People, yet healthy in their minds, are voluntarily putting their health at risk. Is this not finally a sign of the seriousness of their situation? Why don't we hear their cry of despair? Why don't we hear their suffering? Should we wait, as in 1999 and 2009, for the government to be forced to carry out another collective regularization? That is not what we want and that is not why we plead. We plead for a controlled and individual regularization. But it is still necessary to find the courage to take the necessary measures. Recently, several of our colleagues went to demonstrations in support of the undocumented. I think, in particular, of certain socialist and ecologist colleagues. It's a very good thing, but it's clearly not enough when you're in power. I would like to make my second call to the attention of those who, in the majority, believe in the merits of this cause and who perhaps even philosophically agree with our text. I would like to ask them a simple question. What are we waiting for to act, even within the Vivaldi government? Why not put this problem at the heart of the Kern? Why not engage immediately in a constructive dialogue with your partners? It is well known that there are differences. It is well known that a government agreement exists. But that does not mean that there is nothing that can be done next door. Perhaps this is just our proposal, but I was shocked to see that, during the examination of this proposal in committee, it was not possible for us to hold hearings of the undocumented collectives in order to hear their voices. However, this was a successful process when the status of artists was examined. Thanks to these hearings, the views of many colleagues as well as mine have changed because we have heard the reality of the artists being heard. As has been the case with artists, sooner or later we parliamentarians will have to receive the collectives of the undocumented and realize what these people are experiencing. In any case, one question remains. What are we going to do with the families who have been living with us for ten years? Will all be returned to their country of origin or let them still and always live on the margins of society without any rights? Are we going, for example, to expel Mimi, this young Congolese woman without papers that I know well, who has lived with us for eleven years and who fights against sickle cell disease by animating the collective that draws attention to the damage caused by this disease? Is it realistic in view of the fact that she could succumb, like her little brother, to this disease because of the lack of care and medical facilities in the Congo? Are we really going to put her on a plane to Kinshasa when she did three strokes in three years? The Secretary of State constantly avoids the subject by referring to the length of the procedures for deciding on applications for regularisation. Reducing deadlines would, however, simply solve the problem. It seems to me that these situations often require much more thought. Finally, the last call that I wish to make to the government again is the strong message that it is capable of sending to the public: respect for human rights everywhere and always, that it concerns those who have a piece of paper and those who do not have it. Let us not tolerate here what we condemn with great noise elsewhere! Dear progressive colleagues of the majority, when, despite your convictions, for some of you, you will vote in favour of rejecting this bill which would have brought a little more justice into the regularization of the men, women and children who are invisible in our society, do you ask the question: does not the sacrifice of the undocumented on the altar of the formation of a government seem to you today a little too heavy a price? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u153	No one can speak any more. No other speaker may speak. The vote on the bill will take place at a later date. The vote on this bill will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-23-definitief-55-plenair-ip112x.u154	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Michael Freilich, Peter Buysrogge, Theo Francken, Darya Safai. The Committee on National Defence proposes to reject this motion for a resolution. (1784/3) The Committee on Defence proposes that this motion for a resolution be rejected. (1784/3) In accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary session will decide on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and possibly the authors. Pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary shall decide on this proposal for rejection after hearing the rapporteur and, where appropriate, the proposers. The rapporteurs, Mr Guillaume Defossé and Mr Steven Creyelman, refer to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? [[No]] The vote on the proposal to reject this motion for a resolution will take place at a later stage. The vote on the motion to reject this motion for a resolution will take place at a later date. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of the agenda. We are continuing our work on the budget tomorrow morning. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, June 24, 2021 at 10 a.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 24 June 2021 at 10 a.m.
