ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u1	Minister, some of the care staff recently re-entered the streets. One of the demands, which I would like to come back to during this topical debate with a great deal of absenteeism, is the recognition of the profession of nurse as a heavy occupation. Do you have ears for that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u2	The organisation of health care in the province of Luxembourg – a border region with the Grand Duchy – leads to a transfer of talents from Belgium to the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, mainly on more favourable financial terms. The shortage of medical personnel is increasing. The intercommunal suffers from a deficit of 100 nurses and the White Blouses Fund, decided in support of such situations, makes it possible to commit a supplement of 70. There is therefore a potential of 170 nurses in the province of Luxembourg. However, in view of the shortage of staff due in particular to transfers to the neighbouring country, the need lies more in the upgrading of status than in the search for nurses who are no longer available on the market. Would it not be useful to be able to allocate some or all of the resources made available by the White Blouse Fund to improve this status?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u3	This concludes the questions. If representatives of other groups wish to ask questions or reply, they may speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u4	We are indeed in a context of shortage and demotivation of nurses. Many positive actions have already been taken by you and by Parliament – notably with the White Blouses Fund – to improve the situation. But today, the staff are waiting for results. He probably feels that the actions put in place remain abstract on the ground. That is not the case. Good information and communication on what is being done must certainly be developed. As such, could you provide us with an update on what has already been done, what is currently being done and what you are planning to do in the coming months to motivate caregivers to remain in their jobs and to strengthen the attractiveness of the profession and thus avoid this shortage? In a final debate, we discussed the issue of the Institute of Classification of Functions (IFIC) and the implications of this for specialized nurses. You promised to discuss with the unions in an attempt to find an answer to this problem, which certainly affected a minority of specialized nurses, but not without consequences, even though the IFIC reform was beneficial to a large number of staff members. Recently, you mentioned the implementation of a specific working group to reflect on how to address the shortage of nurses. What is the status of this working group? Has it been put in place? If so, who are the members participating in this working group and what is their agenda?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u5	Mr Rigot, thank you. I would like to recall the rule that, in the context of topical debates, a member of a political group who has not asked a question may speak during the debate. But he will have to choose between questions and replies. It's a little strange, but it's the rules.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u6	Mr President, I would like to begin by saying that I consider the concerns of the staff in our hospitals, in general and in particular those of the nurses, to be well listened to and important. I believe that we must do everything we can to meet this. This means that we need to give people who work in health care not only the appreciation, but also the support they deserve. This applies to care workers in general, and of course also to nurses, who have a lot of questions to ask. As you know, since the beginning of the government we have been making an unprecedented investment in the care staff. More than EUR 1 billion has been allocated in structural funds: EUR 600 million in the framework of the roll-out of the social agreement, EUR 400 million in the framework of the Health Care Staff Fund. In addition, as a token of recognition for the care staff, a consumer cheque, which we now also roll out, and a one-off incentive premium, to which we decided at the end of last year, of EUR 985 gross maximum, is the amount for those working full-time. In the meantime, these contributions have also been paid to the caregivers concerned. I will say more about the reporting on the Health Care Staff Fund in the second actua debate in a moment; the two questions are very closely linked, and we can indeed be critical of the gaps that still exist in reporting. More about this in a moment, but I think it is quite clear that, thanks to the Health Care Staff Fund, important efforts are now being made on the ground. These efforts are targeted: I refer, for example, to the objective of removing primary nurses from the funding standard. This means that the federal government provides structural funding in the budget of hospitals' financial resources for an average of one additional full-time nurse, and that hospitals can therefore recruit one additional nurse on average at each service. This means that some heavy services, such as intensive care, are really relieved by extra hands. As far as the social agreement is concerned, you know that there was an agreement in the private sector some time ago to implement the new job classification from June 2021. On average, this will lead to an improvement in wages and the people involved will feel the same. For the public sector, an agreement has only recently been reached. This remains to be confirmed by the A Committee, but it is an agreement that wage increases based on the IFIC system will be implemented retroactively from 1 July. So that's gonna be really palpable. In addition, the sector raises many legitimate questions regarding the attractiveness of the profession, in particular the profession of nurse. That is why, together with the social partners of the public and private sectors, we have set up a specific working group called Attractivity of the care professions. This working group will speed up work in the coming weeks with a view to achieving concrete measures to strengthen the quality of the various professions in the care sector both in the short and medium term. In doing so, we try to objectify a number of things on the basis of concrete figures. The administration is collecting those figures now. In addition, a task force is set up in the very near future for nurses with the Länder, the professional nurses' organizations and the field of training for nurses. One of the guidelines of this working group is the identification of measures to increase the attractiveness of the nurse's profession. Mrs Fonck, Mr Rigot, with regard to the specific questions on IFIC, I would like to reiterate that the IFIC system is evolving. About 10% of the functions are reviewed annually. This may lead to a change in the baraemic category to a higher level. It is the content of the tasks and the description of IFIC functions that determine a score and an IFIC category and thus a scale. The positioning of certain nursing functions in category 14 and others in category 15 is the result of this work of description and weighting according to the IFIC methodology validated on a par by the social partners. In the context of the implementation of the social agreement 2021-2022, tripartite discussions on possible improvements to the IFIC wage model with the social partners are under way. This includes identifying incentives (perhaps new incentives) to support the worker who continues to train and specialize in our health care system. This work is done by ensuring consistency with the IFIC system in place and ensuring that the solution is properly and sustainably funded. In summary, several working groups are under way: a working group in the social consultation on the deployment of the social agreement 2020; IFIC working groups; a working group for the monitoring and improvement of the IFIC model, in which the issue of specialization is also discussed; a specific working group on the deployment of IFIC in the public sector; a working group on the qualitative improvement of working conditions and the attractiveness of the health professions; the inter-federal task force on the training of nurses in collaboration with federated entities, professional organisations and education. As far as timing is concerned, Mrs Taquin, we hope to achieve concrete results for all these working groups by the end of the year. With regard to Ms. Rohonyi's questions as to the number of persons who had demonstrated or had been requisitioned. In fact, Mrs Rohonyi, I do not have these figures. According to an estimate of the Brussels-Ixelles police area, there were about 260 demonstrators during the action "SOS of caregivers in distress". That's what I read, but I don't have accurate data. I have not taken any initiative with regard to these demonstrations or strike actions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u7	Minister, I thank you for your answer, although I must admit that I remain cruelly hungry because my question was precisely to have an objective view of the impact of these requests on nurses. This seemed fundamental to me, not because I am fond of numbers, but because, of course, the requisition orders you have made ensure continuity of care.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u8	Mrs. Rohonyi, I didn't make a requisition order.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u9	Excuse me? Royal decrees make it possible to require nursing staff to ensure continuity of care. At least it was your will.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u10	I don't know what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u11	On what basis was the nursing staff then requisitioned last June in various hospitals and in the course of September during the strikes on 10 and 11 September?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u12	These are orders that already existed before the establishment of this government. So I didn't make an arrest. On the other hand, I think it was a decision of a governor, not of me. Let's be clear!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u13	What I am trying to tell you, minister, is that these orders, whatever the perpetrators, ensure continuity of care for patients. The problem is that today, when nurses are requisitioned, they do not have the opportunity to be heard because today, there is only the strike, when they can observe it in any case, that allows them to be heard by you. They couldn't do it last June, nor in September, so many of them consider themselves to be "museums", they're their words. To take up the elements that you explained to us earlier, it is true that funds have been released and that premiums – still happy – have been granted to nurses to support them and to respond to this major shortage problem, and to increase the number of staff, except that at the same time, you have taken steps against them, which will ultimately nullify your goal of increasing the number of staff. Indeed, if, at the same time, you pass laws delegating nursing acts, if at the same time you adopt an IFIC reform that is criticized and deplored by the sector itself, that is not how you will meet your goal of increasing the workforce. I understand that there is a willingness on your part to set up a working group. You tell us he's working. We don't really know what. We don't really know with whom or on what calendar. I would still like to see concrete things on the table, and in particular a point on which your government agreement is completely silent, namely the recognition of the hardness of the profession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u14	Minister, I thank you for your answer, even though I asked a specific question, namely the recognition of nursing as a heavy job. You didn't answer my question. I also hear you say that there are a lot of commissions going on with a deadline for the end of 2021. I conclude indirectly that, by the time the budget is coming, there is nothing planned, no decision taken on it. I think the demands are quite clear. It is first of all a question of recognizing the function as a difficult job. Secondly, this is also the problem of IFIC reform following the covid crisis and facing the current situation. While the IFIC reform has some very positive elements, it also has the corollary that some trades are not being upgraded under these agreements. This remains a problem for the attractiveness of these functions. I understand that, for the time being, you are not going to come with a concrete proposal as a result of these claims.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u15	Minister, I'm sorry, I wouldn't want to be discourteous, but I can't thank you for your answer because you haven't answered me. I specifically addressed the border situation, with the passage of medical workers from one country to another. Since you do not answer me, has this point been raised in the Gaichel agreements? Will cross-border cooperation provide a response? If this is not the case, is it possible that some of the funds allocated for the commitment of nurses who do not actually exist, since there is a deficit of 170, will be allocated to an upgrading? I think this is a fundamental aspect. We cannot, simply because we are far away, forget this specific problem. If necessary, I will return to the subject in order to obtain an answer to these questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u16	Mr Piedboeuf, I apologize, but it is true that I have given a very general answer. I do not have a ready-made solution to improve the situation from a regional or subregional point of view through specific measures for this region. There is no ready-made answer, actually. At the summit with the Luxembourg Government, we signed a cooperation agreement on health care, but it focuses on what is offered to patients on both sides of the border. There was no specific action or initiative with regard to healthcare staff. If my answer disappoints you, I cannot contradict you. In fact, I find it quite difficult to foresee a subregional or regional solution with regard to the attractiveness of the trade.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u17	Mr President, if I may, I understand your answer. At the beginning of the health crisis, I spoke to the Minister of Health and the Prime Minister of Luxembourg to stop the debauchage, because we lacked healthcare staff in the province of Luxembourg. They did recommend that hospitals stop debauchering nurses and doctors. They reacted, of course, but their reaction was ad hoc. I understand your answer, but we are doing so in economic terms: free zones are being set up in certain places that are disadvantaged. Here, of course, we are not in a disadvantaged region, but the differential is such that, given a series of other elements such as the organization of care and functioning, there is really an element specific to a border region when the neighbour has very strong attraction capabilities. A few years ago the bad doctors went to the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, but today they are the best because of the cheque book. The differential is such that it is a problem. Either we decide to remove hospitals while making agreements to send our patients to the Grand Duchy or we allow a differential, through funds such as the one whose White Blouses Fund devotes the model, in order to keep care staff at home. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u18	Minister, we all undoubtedly agree that if we do nothing, we will burn up more and more of the rest of the care staff. In this way, we will never have the vicious circle where more and more healthcare workers leave the sector for more lucrative jobs that also offer a better work-life balance. A considerable number of our colleagues will no doubt have heard in the workplace the complaint from many healthcare providers that they do not see much in practice of the funds released, and therefore the additional staff promised to be there according to the statistics. We can therefore certainly conclude that only better remuneration is not a blessing and that more needs to be done to recruit more students for health training and to retrain job seekers to the healthcare sector. The power to coordinate supply and demand in this area lies not only with you, Minister, but also with your fellow Minister Dermagne, and with your regional fellow ministers responsible for education and employment agencies. In conclusion, I am pleased that you are concerned about the staff in the care sector and that you are announcing a number of initiatives. But first see and then believe, as one says in the healthcare sector. We will follow the matter closely and ask you about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u19	Minister, the Health Care Staff Fund must provide resources to employ additional people in the care sector. In the previous actua debate, it was already stressed that this need is still there today. The vast majority of the planned 402 million goes to employment, but 48 million euros are also provided for additional self-employed home nurses. Today, in our country, 20,000 qualified nurses do not work in health care and the aim is to direct this potential to potential workers to the self-employed nursing profession and to provide the necessary further training. On 21 December 2020, a proposal was forwarded by the sector to the RIZIV services with a plan on how this training should look, both theoretically and practically, and with a budgetary calculation of the possible remuneration of the mentors and the possible premiums for nurses. To date, the RIZIV has not responded to this proposal. Minister, I would like to hear from you why this proposal has not yet been discussed with the sector. By what time would this be taken on board in the appropriate committee of the RIZIV? When can this project start?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u20	Mr. Bacquelaine is absent and Mrs. Fonck is excused.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u21	Mr President, Minister, a few weeks ago we received an initial evaluation in our mailbox of the use of the Health Care Staff Fund. It is good to remind with some pride that the PVDA is at the origin of the Health Care Staff Fund. You will remember that in October 2019 the Health Care Staff Fund was approved here in the hemisphere. Afterwards, the fund was also included in the budget. The question came as a result of the report. I had tabled a number of questions on this subject. This morning, however, we in the Committee on Health decided to schedule a more in-depth discussion on the use of resources. The report states that 4,500 jobs were created by the Health Care Staff Fund. However, a number of questions remain. The question today is the following. What's your first reaction to the report? After that, we will normally go into it a little further in the committee at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u22	Anyone else want to take the floor? [[No.]] Mr Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u23	Mr President, Mrs Merckx, I would first like to say a few words about the self-employed. Discussions are currently under way with representatives of the professional organizations of home nurses, who are members of the Committee on Nursing and Insurance Agreements at the RIZIV, and the RIZIV. Various slopes are therefore being explored with the sector in order to be able to spend the resources of the Health Care Staff Fund for self-employed home nurses. In this connection, Mr De Caluwe, you have rightly referred to some of the means of supporting entry and re-entry. At present a relatively complex story is developing in this area, which needs to be deepened and made operational. There is also a possibility of supporting administrative burdens. That too, however, needs to be clarified. The aim is to develop the dossier on what we can do for the self-employed home nurses based on the resources of the Health Care Staff Fund in the autumn of 2021. On the subject of training, I would like to give you the following. With regard to the budget for the training of health workers and a proposal that would have been tabled, I cannot, Mr de Caluwé, respond without preparation. I don't have an answer, I admit. I can tell you in this connection that resources are allocated to this project in the context of the allocation of the Maribel Fund's non-recurring resources to training, the most well-known being the 600 project and the resources coming from the White Blouse Fund. The projects put in place for this training are numerous and attract many candidates. Currently, a working group is working on topics related to the attractiveness of the health professions and the issue of calling for a new audience for the care sector. Specifically with regard to the job-seekers project, I can tell you that 400 job-seekers can start training as nurses or caregivers. They get a scholarship of 1,500 euros. The project is being carried out at different stages. As for the failure of some hospitals to report on the use of the White Blouse Fund's resources – I think it is especially Mrs Merckx who wants clarification on this matter – I can say that many reminders have been sent to the twelve hospitals that have not responded to the request for reporting. Unfortunately, no reports were provided to the FPS Public Health by the FPS. They will have to explain this lack of communication to the members of their consultation bodies during the annual report. As indicated in the report I sent you, the 2019 and 2020 budgets were used to create jobs. In hospitals, 65% of new full-time jobs are for nurses or nursing assistants and 35% are for support functions such as administrative staff, maintenance staff, logistics assistants, paramedics or stretchers. The breakdown of commitments for 2019 is as follows: for private hospitals, about 75% of nurses and nursing assistants and 24% of support staff; for public hospitals, about 88% of nurses and nursing assistants and 12% of support staff. With regard to the budget allocated to the Maribel 330 Fund in 2019, which amounts to just over 42 million, it has been used both in the hospital sector (39 million) and in the home care and services sector (three million euros), a total of 42 million. In 2020, the budget transferred to Fund 330, or $38.6 million, is allocated between the part on training in all sectors (21.5 million) and part on job creation in home care services (a ratio of 17.1 million). This represents a total of 38.5 million for all measures of the White Blouse Fund within the jurisdiction of the Maribel Fund. Although the list of information to be provided has been drawn up in consultation between the social partners, Mrs Merckx, some hospitals have not forwarded all the information requested. They should therefore provide an explanation for their consultation body during the annual reporting. As regards the requested detailing, it should be noted that the reports were not always in a form that made it possible to extract useful information. We know that 1,030 full-time units were created in 2019, but we do not know how many have been renewed. During this year's reporting, we will know if the jobs for 2020 have been maintained until 2021. For example, some reports also mention net job creation based on a comparison of the number of VTEs in 2018 and 2019, on the one hand, and the number of VTEs in 2020, on the other hand, for all functions together. However, this information is not present in all reports. So we do not really have a clear picture of the net job creation as it has looked. From 2021 onwards, a model of reporting will be introduced to facilitate the processing of the data received. Information relating to hospital staff shall be submitted to the social consultation body and trade unions each year within three months of the closure of the accounts. That information sharing already existed prior to the creation of the Health Care Staff Fund. The figures relating to the fund are incorporated into that disclosure by law. As regards the specific question concerning the difference between the contract FTEs and the paid FTEs, the contract FTEs are the number of FTEs according to the criterion of the contract of employment. The paid FTEs, on the other hand, are the closest to reality on the ground, because this figure also takes into account sick leave of more than 30 days, unpaid leave, etc. A budget of EUR 289,415,303 has been distributed by the Health Care Staff Fund among the sickness funds, with a distribution key that takes hospital staff into account. No hospital receives more than the funding obtained and any remaining balance should be used as foreseen in the 2021 legislative amendment. Due to the late publication of the law of 30 June 2020, the budgets did not reach the various institutions and sectors until late. This explains a balance in some institutions. In addition, we have suffered an acute shortage of nurses in healthcare since the outbreak of the crisis. The balance of the 89 hospitals referred to in the demand is EUR 61,376,363.49. Unused amounts are kept by healthcare institutions to take punctual measures in the context of prior local consultation to strengthen care, patient bed care. Those amounts should be spent no later than the second year following the year to which they relate, i.e. in 2022 and 2023 respectively, pursuant to the provisions of the Law of 9 May 2021 amending the Law of 9 December 2019 establishing a Care Staff Fund.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u24	Minister, it is a good thing that we will carry out a thorough evaluation of the Health Care Staff Fund in committee. We were in favour of this proposal when it was adopted. It is also good that home care has a place within this Health Care Staff Fund. After all, I am convinced that, among other things, healthcare can be saved through home care and that this increases the patient's comfort. Everyone prefers to be treated at home for as long as possible, but this obviously requires good home care. Self-employed nursing is an important part of this, and I am pleased to hear that the sector is now being consulted and that it is being considered how the resources can be used efficiently. It is also important to reduce the administrative burden on those self-employed home nurses.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u25	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am surprised to hear that the Open Vld still wants to save in health care. I thought it was the intention to provide the best care for the patients, but there are, of course, resources on the contrary. However, some remain in the savings logic. Thank you, Minister, for the details you have given us, but we will go into them in greater detail in committee. At about a hundred hospitals, 12 have not given any figures, which is an important number. You are in favour of transparency, it would be good if we could find out which hospitals did not give figures. I do not think this situation can last forever. I also understand that there is actually a balance of 61 million left by 2020, which has not yet been used. This means that more jobs can be created and that, as we already suspected, those 1,030 jobs of 2019 were not necessarily renewed in 2020. That is also an important point, because the aim of the Health Care Staff Fund is, of course, to create jobs that are long-term and not short-term. We know that this also partly happened to respond to the covid crisis and that it was not always full-time jobs. However, it is now time to ensure in 2021 that it is used to have more staff in the various services around the patient. We will continue to follow this up.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u26	Minister, it is a bit of a lean animal for a very ambitious plan. I think it is particularly important to hear Mr van Open Vld say that home care is so important and that the government wants to put so much effort into it, when you actually have to start talking about it today. We signed up $48 million for the home nurses. 48 million. They have survived the covid crisis and have done a very good job in it, even though you have not even started reviewing the nomenclature. With the payment of the additional costs for the personal protective equipment you stopped in November 2020. You do not yet have an agreement with your fellow Minister for the Budget to pay out the compensation, which has already been decided upon. So you leave these people in the cold and you indicate that you have started a consultation and that there will be more training and guidance. To date, however, these people have nothing. No respect, but also no means to motivate more home nurses to make the switch. That was the intention. Many have quit the job because they were no longer willing to take on that heavy task. You're not giving them perspective. That is a very unfortunate case. I also note that we have included it in the explanatory statement that funds could also go to the centres for victims of sexual violence, initiated by then Secretary of State Zuhal Demir. I don't hear anything about that. No steps have yet been taken to train additional people to take care of those victims in those centres, while we are in a corona crisis that is known to have increased intra-familial and sexual violence. So it may have been a very ambitious plan that we have drawn up together, but it has not been worked out. That's definitely a missed opportunity now. What worries me, Minister, is your answer that you do not have a clear picture of the net job creation or the net number of hands on the patient's bed that you created. In your questioning you will not investigate whether you have not recruited additional middle managers, rather than caregivers and nurses at the patient's bed. That was the intention, however. I am very pleased that we will have an in-depth evaluation in committee, on a proposal from my colleague. In doing so, it will be very important to know whether we have the right data and whether we can effectively measure how many hands we have created on the patient's bed, by means of a fairly large additional financial effort. It should definitely benefit the patient.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u27	Anyone else want to speak?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u28	If you see me, Minister, you will know immediately which file it is about, because I am not really a member of this committee. I've come to ask you again about the medical quotas. After all, they are gradually ending up in a street without an end, and you too will have to admit that. I am not going to explain again what is bothering me in this dossier, but there is a new element, namely the result of the entrance exam on the French-speaking side. This year we arrive at no less than 1,277 graduates. I know, of course, that 222 foreign students are there, and I am well aware of that. However, that is still double the number that could be graduated in the long term. However, the success rate is much higher than 50%, which means that we will again have a number of doctors. That can already be predicted. The 30% quota for foreign students was rightly introduced in French-speaking Belgium. The first year has proved to be very easy to follow, and they have succeeded immediately. The law has been passed and the next year the quota will be exhausted immediately. Twenty years ago, another quota law was passed, but it has not been passed over and over again. Mr Minister, you recently, without too much notice, issued two KBs which, for this year, once again gave a general pardon and which were not too clear about the allowed influx. You are well aware that a compromise was reached years ago, with a great deal of effort and concessions, in which it was said that over many years the number of French-speaking doctors would be paid off by setting a quota of 505 places at the end of the year. Minister, what is your response to the number of students that can start again this year? Have you been in contact with your French-speaking colleague about this? That number is far above the agreement. Are you going, as agreed in a previous legislature, to hold on to those 505 places to compensate for the excess from the past? You are talking about response mechanisms by 2022 at the latest. That is a fantastic term that I often use myself, but it is of course not very concrete. I would like to hear from you exactly what this means. Thirdly, if we wait until 2022, everything will be postponed for another year. I therefore wonder whether you have already granted the General's pardon of last year. After all, this year too, there has been reluctance to determine the number of students admitted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u29	Mrs. Pas apologized.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u30	Mr President, Minister, the discussion on limiting INAMI numbers and the numerus clausus has recently resumed when it was announced that some 1,100 medical students could start their training in the French Community. Immediately, the N-VA pointed to this "Francophone Provocation". I regret that, in this case, political-political positions are still being adopted because things are changing over time. Indeed, the corona crisis has shown that there are not too many general practitioners at all. So maybe it's time to ask about the decisions made 20 years ago. I see every day on the ground what the shortage of generalists means in practice for the accessibility of care, both in Wallonia and Flanders. For example, when a patient moves, it's hard for him to find a new treating physician. I would like to refer here to the comments made by Emmanuel André during his hearing in the Covid Committee. He highlighted the ageing of the population and that of the medical profession. Like him, I see the retirement of many doctors, and I work in a region that is rather urban. In addition, there is the epidemic context, not to mention a whole series of preventive actions that doctors should carry out. Strengthening of the medical profession is therefore essential. In addition, according to calculations made by the Planning Commission, there would be only 6,063 general practitioners in 2037. It's far too little. As far as I am concerned, I would like to ignore this Francophone/Nerland-speaking opposition and the idea that fewer doctors are needed. Isn't it time today to change the deal and have real planning? Is it logical to limit medical vocations when we know that there are many challenges in medicine? Minister, what are your plans?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u31	Mr President, first of all I would like to say to Mrs Merckx that the planning of supply and the proper orientation of training to the needs of society presupposes that the process is controlled and that good agreements can be made about it. As you are on the left, Mrs Merckx, even on the far left, I assume that you will agree with me that we cannot just leave this to the free market, or freedom, happiness, where everyone does what they want. You can't just do that. We have to plan. We have to control. As far as I am concerned, this is a matter of quality of health care, quality of health care professions, and quality of training. I would like to stress that. If you have a plethora of students in relation to the needs, you cannot ensure a really good quality of training. In my view, that is why in French-speaking Belgium and in the world of trainers, in the universities, one is asking one to control the supply and thus to control the entry into training. If there are too many people in the field who want to offer care, if there is an oversupply, then the professions will lose their jobs. We saw that 20 years ago. For example, kinesi therapy was clearly the case. There were too many physiotherapists, which made the competition between those people untenable and actually ruined the profession. Too little isn't good either. You're right about that. We are identifying bottlenecks today, and we really need to take that into account in planning. You have given a few examples. I agree. I come to quality of care. Indeed, quality of care presupposes a good balance between the supply of professionals and the needs that exist. Especially a good orientation. You will agree with me, I hope, that people do not necessarily choose the most lucrative direction, or the direction they believe to be very lucrative, but that they choose a direction that is of great social need, such as general medicine, geriatrics, or psychiatry for children. We have to control. That is actually the essence of the debate. It is indeed a debate that has become highly Community-coloured like it or not. I think we should get over that and put a 20-year history of disputes behind us now. I can tell you that we may be making important progress. I now turn to Mrs Van Peel. I say "maybe" because we can't sell the bear's skin until he's been shot. Excuse me for this bloody, politically incorrect expression. You understand what I'm trying to say. What have we decided? I'm gonna remind you of that, but I'm not gonna let it get to you. We decided at the Federal Council of Ministers on 23 July to approve two draft royal decrees. On the one hand, there is a draft that sets quotas for the year 2027 on how many people can start training in specialization or general medical practice. It concerns a quota of 977 people on the Flemish side and 505 on the French side. On the other hand, a decision was also adopted which provides that all qualified doctors from the 2020-2021 PhD year, including those who are actually excess compared to the previously established quotas, will have access to an internship. This is not particularly new, because this has happened in recent years in other governments in which all possible parties have taken the floor, and I suspect all the parties present here, except Mrs Merckx. Thus, such regularisations have always taken place, because the offer is indeed not well controlled. What is important is that we have made an agreement, and I assume that it will be honoured with the Communities, that these transfers will be directed towards the specialities that are a bottleneck, such as general medicine, geriatrics, adult and childhood psychiatry, rheumatology, but also medical oncology, internal medicine, pathological anatomy, rehabilitation and physical medicine, and a few others. So we have a list of bottlenecks, especially for the general practitioners, and there is an agreement in the minds of the health ministers and the ministers responsible for the provision of training in order to proceed in this way. That's very important. Secondly, an agreement has been made in the federal government, and I'm going to make that appointment to come up with a mechanism to end this 20-year saga. First of all, we are going to create an interfederal planning body. You look a little cynical, but you just don't like interfaith cooperation. I know. I'm not gonna convince you with that. So we are going to create an inter-federal planning body in which together, on the basis of the needs that need to be accurately and properly estimated, we will try to reach good agreements on what the planning should be and on how it is to be implemented. Moreover, and this is very important, a date has been set which, as far as I am concerned, is a very important deadline, especially at the end of January next year. By then, there must be an agreement on the control mechanism. That control mechanism, as far as I am concerned, would ideally take the form of some sort of filter, to use some ugly word. It is therefore a question of some kind of control at the beginning of the studies, on which a robust agreement is made. I think that is best, also for the young people involved and for the universities. In the absence of such an agreement, we federally will take an initiative to achieve a mechanism that will be responsive solely on the basis of our federal powers. It's all written out, it's actually ready. It also builds on matters you referred to that date back to the previous legislature, but which the previous government has not put into practice. That federal mechanism would be a mechanism whereby we give federal certificates and well in advance to the young people involved who start the study, saying how many certificates there will be six years later. We'll be able to divide it, but that's all. The certificates give access to training in a specialty or general medical practice, thus restricting or quotaing access to the profession. However, it will be long-established and the mechanism is a purely federal mechanism that we can implement purely within federal powers. The lyrics are written out, they're waiting in my drawer. I hope I don't have to pull them out of my drawer. After all, it would be better if we had an agreement with the educational communities and those responsible for public health in the Community that we actually organize a control at the beginning of the studies. However, in this saga, which has been going on for 20 years - I am a former warrior in it - we have never made it. I therefore share Mrs Merckx's view on a number of points. It would indeed be a good thing to consider this not as a battle which must now be fought between two Communities, but as a joint search for a clear and robust way of controlling and guiding the offer, providing mutual guarantees of the correctness with which it is carried out. That's what we want to get.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u32	Minister, I almost admire the good faith you have shown in this dossier, even after so many years in politics. I would very much like to look in your drawer at the text, because I am interested in it. Everyone's role and I will make matters more clear from the opposition, but I fully agree with the first part of your explanation. That was the basis of the set-up of quotas. That is why it still needs to be transposed to date. Only, in what, so to speak, after very good conversations between the two of you, happens today in the first exams that follow, namely a first one where you still thought they had understood it, but a second one where there was a political decision to pull it up again, I see a provocation towards you. Finally, they have made sure that the next general pardon for the students who are going to be in it for seven years has already been achieved before this year. That would not have been necessary if you had had such a constructive conversation as you said. I don't quite believe in it yet, and I'm just gonna wait and see. I believe that you will, because I believe that you are looking at this file in the right way. However, I fear that there is some naivety in it or that you will use the words 'erase history' to give a general pardon, which I do not support, to say that we will start with a blank sheet. I think you're missing a lot of things after all. Finally, as far as the interfederal planning committee is concerned, do not do it. There's already two and then we'd get four. I don't think that's a good idea. The figures are there, it's a matter of imposing them, not just on the one hand, but on the other. That leads to bottlenecks, I think is a very good thing. As you know, that is a Community competence, and I think that is a good move from you, for everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u33	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. However, I do not fully agree with your view. I agree that there has to be planning, because we have to meet the needs of the population. On the other hand, however, we in Belgium are in a fully liberal medical system, in which the free market is playing and in which caregivers are competitors of each other. At certain times, you can make a lot of money on the patients' backs. That problem needs to be addressed, because it causes overconsumption in itself. In my view, this should be done rather than restricting entry to the profession. After a medical study, people can still go a lot of ways. Even if you continue to believe in it, I do not understand why entry into these studies should be absolutely limited. This raises a problem of the democratization of education. At university banks, we find few students who are not themselves the daughter or son of doctors. In this sense, I continue to argue for the freedom of access and choice of people who wish to enter medical studies.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u34	Is anyone asking for the floor in this topical debate? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u35	Mr President, Minister, mental health is a subject that everyone in this committee considers important. The corona crisis has made the need for good mental health care even more painfully clear. Minister, you have EUR 200 million per year for new policies in mental health care. Structurally, it was decided to use 122.5 million euros for the expansion of the first-line psychological function. The government has also approved a number of specific and temporary measures in the context of the corona crisis. I am thinking of the measure for the self-employed, cooperation with universities and colleges of higher education for the well-being of students, etc. These are good initiatives and I would have liked to have heard your evaluation of these temporary measures. Are there certain measures you wish to make structural? What is your mental health vision? And how will it translate into the structural use of the remaining EUR 200 million?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u36	Mr President, Minister, I would like to talk again about the gradual roll-out in the country of accessible psychological care. Making our psychological care more accessible, both in terms of procedure and price, is one of the priorities of you and this government. That can only be welcomed. The government agreement rightly states: "The mental health care (GGZ) is approached in an equivalent way to somatic health care in terms of accessibility, quality, proximity and affordability. This is done on very low-threshold, outpatient and community-oriented care which goes to the caregiver himself. In doing so, the reimbursement of psychological care by clinical psychologists and clinical orthopedagogues is the first priority." It may and must be said: at the end of July, a very nice agreement was reached between the RIZIV, the Public Health Office and the sector: From 1 September, everyone has the right to affordable psychological care. Adults are entitled to an average of eight directly reimbursed 11 euro sessions per year. That's how different media houses communicated. The agreement also includes a number of other important reforms. In order to be eligible for reimbursement, there is no longer a requirement of the general practitioner and there will be a fourfold increase in the budget, accounting for over 150 million euros, for which a plume. The new healthcare model launched on 1 September is an important step in making psychological care accessible. However, I would like to stress that we are receiving reports from psychologists that this is unclear. For example, some psychologists told us that they still received questions from clients about the reimbursement, while they did not yet apply everywhere and not immediately. There's been confusion. In order to help the world out, can you explain the gradual introduction of the reimbursement system for psychological consultations? On 14 September, you partially answered that question, following a question from Mrs Sofie Merckx, but I think it is important enough to repeat it. Psychologists and orthopedagogics can register in the mental health networks. How exactly does that work? Who's getting involved? Is the investment of 152 million euros for first-line psychology sufficient to finance the project? A final, but certainly not insignificant question: is there a communication plan to inform both the caregivers and the citizens? We have noticed some confusion in that regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u37	Mrs Vanpeborgh already referred to the important convention that was concluded last summer and to some important measures included in it. The resolution adopted by a large majority last year responds to a great deal of this. The basis for this was a proposal of which I was a co-signatory. For example, it was about improving reimbursement for clinical psychologists and orthopedagogics and removing a number of thresholds that still existed in the previous convention. For example, a referral from the general practitioner was always necessary at the time. Those two concerns are addressed in the new convention. I told you before, it's very difficult for an independent psychologist to survive with the current fee. At the same time, it is also difficult for patients to maintain treatment, given the prices applied. It is a noble ambition of you to use the new convention to strengthen the accessibility of primary care when it comes to psychological treatments. It's about 8 sessions a year, or 20 sessions, when it comes to specialized care. There were immediate reactions from several independent psychologists. That too is important. I was wondering how you'd react to that. Now it's about some sessions. They ask what to expect in the future. If one is being treated and it appears to be getting longer, how is it being dealt with? It's about a budget that steadily increased by 151 million a year, as you foresee. You cannot immediately eliminate the problems of psychological care created by decades of disadvantage and neglect, but it is important to be able to set up a growth path. That's what the coalition agreement says. Today we give 6% of our health care to mental health care. According to the OECD, that percentage would have to evolve to about 10% in the long term in our coalition agreement "to 2030." How do we deal with this growth path under this convention? Secondly, it concerns the autonomy of the psychologist. Indeed, one must register in networks. The question is that an independent psychologist gets a place in that too. If you have not registered in a network today, will you be eligible? A third question concerns the free choice of treatment. One is referred to a psychologist in the region. Is there any possibility of treating the same reimbursement rate if one has lived elsewhere and has a good connection with a particular psychologist? The lack of clarity about its entry into force was partly eliminated last week, but the system will have to be made operational by the end of the year and will then enter into force next year. Can you clarify the timing? An evaluation will take place after two years. Another question is about the psychotherapists and the supportive professions that are not eligible today. You must have gotten those e-mails, too. I'm gonna get one, too. "What about us?', is always being asked. What about the supporting GGZ professions? An opinion has been requested from the Federal Council, which is working on it. In what way will they get a place in the system? This is an important challenge and one that needs to be addressed. Of course, there's some kind of competition starting to play. We are indeed asking for more than EUR 50, but if the psychologist has to pay only EUR 11 next door, the choice has been made quickly. In what way do we involve these supporting GGZ professions in the master plan that you roll out?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u38	I submitted my question in response to a press release you sent. In that you indicated that our patients could go to the psychologist for 11 euros from September. This does not appear to be September, but 1 January, if an agreement is reached, if your plan is to take shape. It is a pity that such an important debate here as an actua debate, with two minutes' speaking time per Member of Parliament, should be discussed with you. On the basis of questions, we must try to find out what that federal master plan health care is effective. The colleague speaks of the healthcare model that has been launched and asks if there is any communication available. How is it that we first communicate with the press and then with the care providers? How is it that first there is communication with the press and then there is debate in Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u39	What you're saying doesn't make any sense at all. There wasn't any communication with the press first, not by me, anyway. I don't know what press release you're referring to either.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u40	The press release has been published in Het Nieuwsblad. It has also been published in The Latest News. That was published at the beginning of the summer. You're quoted in it. An answer has come from you. I don't know about the communication between you and your chairman. There is also very clear communication from your party chairman on this agreement. It is good that progress has been made. But it is remarkable that a year and a half had been discussed, in back rooms, without Parliament being involved, and that when the summer recess began, a great publication was sent out, giving patients every hope that they could go to the psychologist for 11 euros. Until today, they still pay 60 to 75 euros to get help. Until today, there are still a lot of psychologists who do not know whether they are eligible and how they can subscribe to the Convention. My specific question is: by when will it be effective? Is that on 1 January, as our colleague has just suggested? Will you have an answer on early detection, on early treatment? Will you be able to guarantee a conversion from residential care to outpatient care? Will you be able to guarantee a comprehensive approach, including somatic care for patients with psychological or psychiatric disorders, or is this just about announcement policy? In my written question, I also asked you the question of how you will work out this framework agreement in concrete terms. How many psychologists and orthopedagogics are currently working for the new system? How many are you planning by January? I once asked you in another debate: will you be able to spend all the money? You said that I do not have enough staff to meet the need for mental health care. This debate is much wider than a two-minute topical debate. I would ask you, if you really intend to draw up a federal master plan on mental health care, to do so with Parliament. Come to this committee, so we can work out a path together.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u41	As far as the latter is concerned, we decided this morning to devote one day to mental health care. It was originally planned for 8 October, but we decided to postpone it. You will be invited, Minister. The date is not yet known.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u42	Minister, we also discussed this last week. I had put a question on that at the time. At that time, you effectively said that there was a false communication. You are now also questioning what Mrs Depoorter is saying. Mrs Vanpeborgh says the media reported on 29 July. I can forward that article to you: from 1 October everyone can go to the psychologist for 11 euros per session. On 31 August 2021, Frank Vandenbroucke states on his Facebook page that there is affordable psychological care for everyone from 1 September 2021. Day All says: "Tomorrow September 1st is not only the beginning of a new school year for our children, but the start of accessible affordable and accessible psychological care for everyone who needs it." I really fell off my chair last week when you said to me and also last Sunday in The Seventh Day that the government is making historical investments in health care, but that it will not finance everything that happens. She won't pay back every session at the psychologist's. It will bring about a different offer. You also repeated here last week that the government will not repay everything that happens. You have also admitted that there has been a miscommunication in this area. That hasn't been a bad communication from the press. It was you who sent the idea to the world that psychological care would be repaid. Many people who go to the psychologist today, pay a lot of money for that and were hoping for a refund, now come back from a bald trip. After all, they are now aware that this will only be introduced in a few months' time and that it is not about the current psychological care but about a new offer. In addition, it is a project which is fixed for only two years. So people will start caring, but they don't know how it goes after that. I can only regret that this has happened. For the rest, I refer to the questions I tabled last week.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u43	Does anyone else want to speak in the debate? [[No.]] Minister, I give you the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u44	First of all, I will deal with the latter in order to clear up the dust in this discussion. With regard to the first-line psychological assistance convention, the RIZIV published on its official website the text approved in the insurance committee at the end of July, with all the details. I didn't say anything about it. I didn't say anything about it. I didn't say anything about it. I didn't say anything about it. I didn't say anything about it. The text with all the details published by RIZIV is of course very technical. Among other things, the Flemish Association of Clinical Psychologists (VVKP) - and especially her - has taken action to explain it to its members and the public. It was a good initiative and the Flemish association has done so in a good and enthusiastic way. As I said last week, it is a pity that at the end of August, early September, I did not explain the whole story and all the details. I didn't want to do it, and it has indeed been resumed to something people haven't understood. The idea of this reform is not that everything that exists will be repaid, which is not an easy discussion with the field. I can imagine that clinical psychologists and clinical orthopedagogues and a number of people who are active in this think that what they do is useful and must be refunded. However, we want to create a very specific offer and a different way of working. So it really is a reform. To put it negatively, we do not want to start again for mental health care what we insured 60 years ago for somatic medicine in this country, namely a system of purely individual performance that is reimbursed individually, with a lot of freedoms, happiness, little cooperation, no multidisciplinary approach. We don't want that. We learned from that, too. Meanwhile, partnerships were established in somatic medicine, the first line was encouraged to organise well and support for networking and cooperation was provided. We have chosen a multidisciplinary approach or are trying to do so. What we need to do today is push the line of that story. We must give mental health a full place in health care and health insurance. This must be done on the basis of a contemporary vision, not one of purely individual performance funding, but one of collaboration, across different professional groups, with a strong organization in the first line, with indeed some limitations and at the same time a good payment of the clinical psychologists and orthopedagogues who register in the network. This is a convention system. Clinical psychologists and orthopedagogics who want to know how it works can find out that in the meantime. There's nothing dark about it. They individually enter into a convention which, of course, also entails a number of obligations, where a mental health network concludes a convention for a given territory. I do not want to repeat everything, but it is important that we realise that this is a reform. We do not continue on the beaten paths, but organize it differently. The aim is to create a specific and well-organised offer. Mrs Vanpeborgh asked if our financial investment was sufficient. It seems to me to be a fairly large investment and a strong supply, but not necessarily sufficient to meet the need we have now identified as a priority. This investment is not exactly out of the blue. She responds to the need to provide people with 'exploring' help in a very accessible way and to assess the needs. This does not require a whole series of sessions. It is also a question of those who need specialised care, on the basis of multidisciplinary consultation and a functional balance, arriving at specialised assistance. Is the amount allocated sufficient? I'm afraid to say that today. At the moment, in consultation with the clinical psychologists, we are thinking especially along the lines of a growth path. That's right, Mrs. Van Hoof. And no, I do not have the idea that instead of EUR 150 million, we would actually need EUR 1.5 billion. In my view, this offer is an important way of meeting a particular need. Mrs Depoorter, I know that your group is generally not keen on consultation. However, we have, also inspired Mrs Van Hoof, referred to it through parliamentary work, held intensive consultations for months in a new body specifically set up for this purpose, namely the transversal agreement committee on mental health care of the RIZIV. It is a little strange, Mrs Depoorter, that you are asking not just one initiative but five times whether I have consulted the pharmacists. Now you're a little nervous because we've consulted the clinical psychologists, the clinical orthopedagogics and the general practitioners and all those involved. We do that because we have to. I hope you appreciate that. Indeed, this consultation took a long time. That is why we could not say until 1 September that the story was rolled out. I shall now come to the first questioner, Mr De Caluwe, who wanted to have a point-by-point assessment of what we have done, but I will be working in the opposite order, if Mr De Caluwe does not blame me. With regard to Mrs Van Hoof's question on the GGZ support professions, I will have to answer some technical questions. The co-ordinated law of 10 May 2015 on the exercise of healthcare professions provides, in a specific article, that after the opinion of the Federal Council for the Mental Health Care Occupations, a royal decree can be drawn up containing the list of mental health support professions, as well as the general criteria for the recognition of those supportive mental health care professions and the specific criteria applicable to each of those supportive mental health care professions separately. A working group was set up within the Federal Council at the beginning of this year to prepare an opinion on the mental health support professions. I expect that advice over the next few weeks. It has required some work, because it is a complex matter, but I expect that advice, which will be an important step. I will not say anything about it now, but we must take it as the first starting point for further work. You asked me if I think we should question the limit on the number of sessions for first-line psychological care, 8 for the exploratory phase and 20 for specialized psychological care in the future. Unless the scientific evaluation indicates that those figures are wrong, we should not question those figures. Even if we were to question these figures on the basis of the scientific evaluation, I really cannot imagine that we would not be working with a restriction. Some people in the sector say in good faith that there is no need for limitation and work with a patient until the treatment pays off. That's not a very convincing plea. If the resources are to be used effectively, a number of studies, such as the KCE report on first-line psychological care, should be used. According to that report, four or five appointments are enough to take a first step. On the basis of a number of scientific studies and on the basis of efficiency, the number of sessions to be reimbursed should be limited. That exact number needs to be evaluated, but that limitation is necessary. We need to develop scientific guidelines that will clarify this further. This whole story will also become scientific policy. As far as the restrictions on getting into it are concerned, I hope, of course, that as many individual clinical psychologists and orthopedagogues as possible will step into it. The combination of a certain fixed allowance with slightly improved funding for the healthcare provider concerned hopefully convinces a number of people to join the convention. Funding will improve for this profession. There is criticism of the fact that their autonomy is being curtailed. I understand that that is said because it is a new model. It's not freedom, joy. We don't make the same mistakes as 60 years ago when health insurance came about in somatic medicine. It took us decades to correct those mistakes. It's not freedom, joy. We're gonna need a meeting. The first-line psychological aid provider should help the general practitioner to treat the patient who also comes to the general practitioner with somatic complaints there. That's how the patient's whole set of problems can be seen. Therefore, information should also be passed on to the treating general practitioner. If a course of specialised care is started, there should therefore also be consultation involving a doctor, such as a general practitioner or possibly a psychiatrist. That's extra work and extra information that needs to flow through. However, this is absolutely necessary in modern health care. If one wants to approach man as a whole, so not with a split between the spiritual and the somatic, then one must organize cooperation and allow information to flow. I do not regard that as a limitation of autonomy. You have also specifically mentioned the territorial dimension. A patient can, of course, receive care in a network other than that of his place of residence. This can of course be done, for example for students studying in Leuven but living in another region. In addition, a psychologist or orthopedagogist may be active in several networks, provided that he has concluded a convention with the networks concerned. So it must be clear that this can be done. Where are we in this story now? This reform is not easy. During August, several networks, both for children and young people, as well as for adults and older people, received a debrief with the necessary explanations. Seven networks have already signed and for them the new convention has entered into force from September. I hope that most networks will sign up this month so that the new framework for them can enter into force from 1 October. Of course, in parallel with this signature, clinical psychologists and orthopedagogues must convent on an individual level with the network. The type agreement for individual clinical psychologists and orthopedagogics was approved by the insurance committee of the RIZIV on 13 September. In the meantime, of course, what Mrs De Block has achieved remains to be seen. The psychologists who have already been notified will, of course, continue to work with the applicable reimbursement systems. These systems ensure that the patient has to pay only 11 or 4 euros out of his own pocket. The seven networks that are already active are in the process of converting the existing contracts from the De Block period into the new convention. Of course, we hope that they will recruit as many additional psychologists and orthopedagogues as possible. Finally, it is important that the mental health networks conclude a cooperation agreement with local multidisciplinary partnerships by the end of the year. This is a bit different between Flanders, Brussels and Wallonia: in Flanders we are talking about the 60 care councils of the first-line zones, in Brussels we are talking about the four so-called antennas, but also about BruZEL, and in Wallonia we still have to make it quite clear what the institutional approach will be. However, cooperation agreements between mental health networks on the one hand and local multidisciplinary partnerships on the other should be established throughout the country. In cooperation with the Länder, which are responsible for the organisation of the first line, we are working on a tool to identify the needs and supply for the population in a given region and thus also the treatment gap, so that we can use the budget in a very targeted way. In addition, other tools are developed, such as a model of functional bilan, a portfolio of the clinical psychologist and so on. As I have said a few times, the budget is large, but not endless. Based on a new billing mechanism which will start on 1 October, the networks will also be able to monitor and, if necessary, adjust the deployment of the budgets. Finally, Mrs Vanpeborgh, you are absolutely right that we should develop a communication plan. This is now being prepared to inform both the aid workers and the general public as best as possible about the new offer. After all, that is a gap that absolutely had to be filled in. Mr de Caluwe, I will reply on a point-by-point basis. We have indeed taken various punctual initiatives in mental health care. There is a measure for students that runs until the end of 2021, with the understanding that group interventions for students may run until 31 May 2022, but within the budget made available. The contractor, the UPC KU Leuven, is responsible for the follow-up and coordination of that project, and on the basis of the information provided by the different partners, an interim activity report is expected by the end of September 2021 and we will therefore be able to make an assessment of the impact. Then there is the project psychological care for self-employed in need. For this purpose, 812 clinical psychologists and orthopedagogics have registered, including 482 new clinical psychologists and orthopedagogics who were not yet engaged in the existing reimbursement project of first-line psychologists. The vzw Un pass dans l'impasse is committed to concluding conventions as soon as possible at the time clinical psychologists and orthopedagogues make themselves known. Here is also a scientific team ready to make the evaluation. I expect the final report of this project Self-employed in need, officially launched on 6 April, in December. The roll-out of the enhanced mobile crisis teams Children and young people will be monitored through a survey of the networks. A structural nature for 2022-2024 was announced at the start of the measures to all the teams involved and the mental health networks Children and young people. The same applies to the strengthening of the K and K services and forensic K units by increasing the staffing framework. We want to evaluate this initiative rather quickly, namely already in October. As regards the strengthening of hospital services through the addition of liaison teams, we will carry out an evaluation on the basis of an ad hoc survey and consultation with the networks. I expect results from that already. Finally, there is the extension of the functioning of the mobile team in the mental health networks for adults to the elderly target group. The networks are currently filling out the many vacancies they can fill out. Mr de Caluwé, the roll-out of this measure for older people is followed by a survey and consultation with the networks. The evaluation will also take place in October. It is on that basis that we want to make this plan structural.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u45	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed evaluation and analysis. I have heard you say a number of times that you will consult and you have also referred several times to scientific insights. I am reassured, because the public funds are not unlimited, are they, Mrs Merckx? Public funds must be used efficiently, which does not necessarily mean saving money, but using limited resources where they have the most impact. I also regret the communication on the 11 euro. You explained how that communication was created. However, such matters can best be avoided, because they cause a lot of confusion for the people and I think we can spare them in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u46	Thank you, Minister, for your answer, which I found very enlightening, reassuring and also honest, which you do grace. You said the communication went a little bit wrong. I like the way people communicate about that effectively. You bring a clear, fresh vision. With your reform, you no longer want to fall into the trap of somatic performance medicine. Target group-oriented and multidisciplinary work is being carried out. The amount of EUR 152 million has not just been created, that is really well thought out. It is also a turning point with the past, for which a plume. This must also be seen within the framework of a realistic growth path. I agree with my colleague that expenditure should not always be spent, above all it should be ensured that expenditure is effective. Finally, I am reassured that you say that the communication plan is coming. I think it is indeed very important to develop and roll out a communication plan so that all people and all healthcare providers know where they stand.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u47	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed answer and for responding to every aspect of our questions. Indeed, we also regret the communication last summer. Perhaps the summer recess was for something, because the confusion was great, but questions could not be asked immediately. The moment was perhaps not ideal, which for a long time was misunderstood that it was 11 euros on every consultation with every psychologist, while now figures show that only 10 to 30% of psychologists can get into the system with these resources. The question of whether sufficient resources have been allocated remains. I am pleased to hear you say that this must be accompanied by scientific guidance, and that seems to me to be an absolute condition. You've set out a new vision. You have also responded about the free choice of treatment, the autonomy of the psychologist and the situation of the supporting GGZ professions. It is a comprehensive plan, which we do need and which requires a debate in Parliament, as has been the case with the resolution. I believe that during the year we should be able to monitor the way in which scientific guidance is carried out. We should also be able to get interim reports on this issue. In the meantime, we are building on the vision set out beautifully by Professor Bruffaerts. I was rather charmed by the explanation of the mental health myths that still reign today. It is not by suggesting to more psychologists that we will have better mental health care. We should actually start from the public health perspective: what are the needs today, how should we ensure that fewer people have psychological problems? I have not heard this vision very clearly in your answer, but it is probably in it. We must ensure that we provide early mental health care for young people. Nor is it by suggesting more cardiologists that we prevent heart problems. It is by dealing with it more preventively, by bringing up the problems in good time, that we can ensure that people remain mentally healthy or can become healthy. This vision, which was set out by the professor, and which was actually the basis for the public health master plan, may need to be clarified in the future debate on how we can ensure that people do not need psychologists at a later age. I see a number of elements, but I hope that we will be able to continue the debate on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u48	Mr Minister, you have explained very well that the RIZIV has provided the communication and that it has released all the details. If you are still working on a communication plan, I recommend that you be the first to consult with your party chairman. On 29 July 2021 I read the following: "From 1 September for 11 euros per session to the psychologist. Mental well-being first, such an important step." Then follows a very nice election pamflet with your picture: "Progress makes psychological care affordable for everyone." Minister, you may humbly say that things have gone a bit wrong, but it seems that the political recovery is happening in full. Moreover, it is political recovery of a plan that is not, for a psychologist's availability for 11 euros that is not, because even half of the needs will not be covered. That's how your coalition partner reports. I've done a lot of field work this summer, and I've also visited psychiatric institutions. I visited parents of young people in trouble and talked to them myself. You talk about a number of sessions and still need to figure out how to allocate those sessions, specifically to which type of disorder and necessity. However, these people have been waiting a long time. We know that COVID-19 has had a tremendous impact on the lucky barometer of our young people. The latest health survey again showed that our residents feel more depressed, lonelier and more afraid than they do of the covid crisis, yet you say that you will work out a plan by 2022-2024. We know that early detection is very important and that certain psychological and psychiatric problems develop before the age of 14 years. There is therefore not much time left for these young people in particular, especially for them there is no time to first communicate and then act. I fully agree with you that we must move towards a complete reform, because if we look at the studies of the CCE, we can see very clearly that there must be a conversion from residential to outpatient care. In this way, the cost to patients can be reduced, care can be made more tailor-made and it can be even more financially advantageous for the government. Multidisciplinarity, in which I fully follow you. What you're not talking about is the dates. We need more than minimal psychiatric records. We need more data to see what the needs of our children and our patients are. What you're not talking about is the switch from child to adult. This is briefly mentioned in the convention you concluded. Here one has to make a choice, but one does not define a route. What you are not talking about is the somatic care that is necessary for these children. I will not go into your gratuite accusation that we would not be in favour of conciliation. You disappoint me a little bit. You set the example yourself. I keep asking you about it. What I would like to tell you is that very often, in the consultations you have organised, no decision has been reached, which took a very long time in times of crisis, from June 2020 to this summer, to effectively reach a new agreement for that convention. Again and again you come back to the budgets approved by Parliament, not by the government, on the proposal for a resolution approved by Parliament before your arrival. There was time from your arrival to work it out very nicely, but you did not use it. You are not talking about a third-payer rate for children and young people. I find that special, especially for the person you are. The study of the KCE shows very clearly that this could be an important fact. Eleven euros per session for children with severe need for care remains very much. You're hoping for a signature by the end of September and for implementation in October. Then we'll be another month. I hope with you that you will be able to help a lot of young people and people very quickly if we can start in January.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u49	Mrs Depoorter, that is a third-payer scheme. What are you saying?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u50	No third-payer scheme is provided for children and young people.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u51	That's a third-payer scheme, isn't it? They don't have to pay the full pot.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u52	Social third-payer scheme, a third-payer scheme at 11 euros. The study of the KCE calls for full reimbursement for psychological care.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u53	You're always confusing everything. Third-payer's not the same as free. That's something else. Third party payer means that one should not advance the whole sum and then receive a refund. It is a pity that we sometimes have to explain basic things here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u54	You really don't have to explain to me what a third-payer is. I apply that every day at the pharmacy. That too is a third-payer rule. I had not spoken a word and referred to the social third-payer rule. That's what we're talking about, and that's what the KCE is talking about. Again, as in the case of vaccination, we are bumping on regional differences. You're pointing to the K-beds. There's a pretty big regional difference. You refer to the fact that Wallonia still has to work it out. Flanders is a lot further away and waiting for the results. We would very much like Health to be entirely Flemish, so that we can handle the speed that our patients effectively need.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u55	Communication was not only unhappy, but also misleading. You clearly communicated that the psychologist would be reimbursed in September. That's why false hope has been created. Here we are told that only 10 to 30% of what is happening today to psychological care will be reimbursed. Then there is the problem of the additional needs to be met. In Belgium there is a huge backlog to catch up on. Mental health care and programmes have been repaid in countries such as the Netherlands and Germany. This is still not the case in Belgium today. Investing in mental health care is, of course, a real investment that can be recouped. The epidemic of burn-outs and mental illness also costs an enormous amount for health insurance. Is 150 million effective enough? You say that you rely on science and therefore want to limit the number of sessions paid back. Scientific research into what people need from psychological help shows that people are on average helped in 4 to 26 sessions. If anyone feels better, he won't go to the psychologist anymore. That's the same myth as about doctors. We also see this in the forfait practices in which people can come to the general practitioner free of charge. The number of sessions should not be limited. If the number of sessions per pathology is prescribed in advance, this may have an adverse effect on the patient. One should not establish the link between the number of sessions to be paid back for the patient and the idea that the care providers absolutely have to be reimbursed per performance. You will already find an ally in us for a reflection on a different way of payment. Finally, all freedom and happiness can no longer, you say. But then you also have to cut off with two sizes and two weights. Do we want mental health care and somatic health care at the same level or not? Today, almost 5 billion of our health budget goes to the pharmaceutical industry, because we take so many pills. There can be freedom, happiness apparently. We have also prepared proposals on this subject. There's 8 billion going to the doctor's fees. There too, freedom, joy. But you only have 150 million auction tickets for the reimbursement of a limited number of sessions over a two-year period in mental health care. What you are proposing as a revolution is nothing more than a drop on a hot plate. We will continue to work for heavy investments in mental health care and will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u56	At the end of the topical and urgent debate, which has lasted for a very long time, I would remind you that the speaking time of the question is basically limited to two minutes and that of the reply to one minute. Of course, the Minister also replied for a long time and we are certainly in favour of having an answer to all the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u57	Mr President, I have no doubt that the four themes we have raised so far were very interesting. This is the beginning of Parliament and we are all motivated but, indeed, more than two hours for four topical debates, you know that we can have topical debates at each sitting when we have at least three questions on the same subject. I have also heard many lyrical flights from colleagues. It is true that the minister took time too, but could we be pragmatic? Sometimes it is the same colleagues who ask us to be so when it comes to discussing legislative proposals and moving forward. We didn't make any progress here. This is likely to take a long time at the beginning of a parliamentary session if we find ourselves already with a series of questions to be postponed from week to week. I would like to insist, Mr. President. It is you who are the master of time but could we be careful to stick to these rules known to all: two minutes, one minute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u58	Mr. Vice-President, thank you. Unfortunately, we have no timing here, which would make things easier. We also have a lot of topical debates because it is a catch-up of the two months of vacation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u59	I can only quote from my colleague Hervé Rigot: 2 hours and 10 minutes for four topical debates seem to me a little much as they were amputated by half of their speakers! Minister, since June, Proximus has launched an application called DoktR. The telecoms operator is launching for the first time in Belgium the organisation of remote medical consultations between patients and general practitioners. In the long run, Proximus wants to expand access to specialists and paramedics. Absym, INAMI, the Order of Physicians and Mutualities support this initiative. Two beacons have been put in place to avoid abuse in connection with the use of this application. The first is that the doctor will have to continue to practice physical consultations in order not to end up with a future generation of virtual doctors. This is important for some diagnoses and to take into account the digital divide of society. The second is that the doctor will have to define his or her schedule of activity while the patient will have to make an online appointment with the secretariat. Minister, despite these beacons, it seems to us that this application could really be an obstacle to the indispensable relationship of trust between patients and treating physicians since the patient can be referred to any doctor. Do you think there are any advantages in this application developed by Proximus? Did your services contribute to its development? If so, how? With the support of public health actors, such as Absym, INAMI or the Order of Physicians, do you really plan to allow the development of this application towards telemedicine consultations for specialists and paramedics? This type of application will develop in the future. How do you envisage their supervision? What beacons do you consider necessary to put in place to avoid the drifts, the uberisation of health and the harmful consequences of the digital divide? Could specific legislation be introduced within this framework?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u60	Proximus announced the new application Docktr a few months ago. It's going pretty far. Searches have taught me that via the app electronic prescriptions and doctor's notes would also be delivered. I will not go too far about it, but has there been enough consultation with civil society? The medical syndicates, including the Belgian Association of Doctoral Syndicates (BVAS) and also Medicomut, have expressed many criticisms and objections. How do you respond to the criticism of the doctors syndicates and Medicomut about how the consultations are organised through the application Docktr? Is consideration being given to the equalisation of the price of physical and teleconsultation, even outside the health crisis? We have done it in this context to keep the care as close as possible to the patients, but are you thinking of extending that scheme as well? Finally, there is a need for a new legal framework on digital healthcare and e-health because, as mentioned earlier by my colleague, several doctors will probably have access to medical records when using the application. What about the privacy protection of data in this context?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u61	I am absolutely convinced that teleconsultations will be part of the medicine of the future and can be an advantage for both the patients and the doctors concerned. Specifically, with regard to the DoktR application, as Proximus initially announced, this type of application will never replace the relationship between the doctor and the patient. It is crucial for the physician to know the patient, background and background. That's why I didn't appreciate Proximus' initiative so much that I thought it was premature. Advantages have been presented with regard to the confidentiality of the application etc., but there are still a number of elements that need to be clarified and framed. The objective cannot be to contact a doctor in a hijacked manner to receive a video teleconsultation. Addressing physicians randomly is not the goal and certainly not from the point of view of the effectiveness of care. On the other hand, the objective must be to give priority to continuity and quality of care, and to limit these teleconsultations to the general practitioner who holds the patient's DMG. That's my opinion anyway. In order to achieve this, consultations on the development of the framework related to teleconsultation as a whole are under way. The National Medical-Mutualist Commission has concluded an agreement for 2021 which includes a project on telemedicine. The aim of a working group will be to develop a legal framework for reimbursement of telemedicine services in order to ensure quality care and confidentiality of video exchanges and data transmitted. A debate took place within the medicomut on the application of Proximus. Everyone is convinced that teleconsultation has a place in our health care system and is seeking a structural framework, but this place needs to be clearly defined. I don't think that should be the starting point. The starting point must be to give a place to teleconsultations and videoconsultations in the doctor's practice (including the general practitioner) and to provide a new, appropriate type of funding and not just a multiplication of the existing one. However, we have not yet reached that stage. We're still in the middle of this meeting. You also ask how far is the regulation of the reimbursement of digital applications. The RIZIV established a procedure allowing companies to register their mobile medical applications. During this procedure, a specific working group will further identify the proposed care path and assess it against the reality of the field. The therapeutic utility and economic added value shall be evaluated. It is not intended that this is important to arrive at a list of refundable apps, but rather to pay for the entire care path through a so-called bundled payment that the app is part of. In the meantime, this principle has been generally accepted. In the meantime, of course, such things still need to be put into practice.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u62	Minister, thank you for your answer. Like you, I am convinced that teleconsultations will be part of the future. They have also shown their need at the height of the health crisis, but also their limitations, including the loss of connection between the patient and his doctor or caregiver. We must therefore be very vigilant with this kind of application. Thus, as you said, the DoktR application will of course never replace the relationship between the patient and his or her doctor. Similarly, I am glad to hear that you did not appreciate Proximus's approach – which I would call proactive or, in any case, uncoordinated. I thank you for giving your opinion on this application, but, as I said in my question, I think that this kind of application will continue to develop in the future, so that we will have to be extremely vigilant and able to set a legal framework for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u63	Minister, I am sure this will be part of our future. However, I was surprised to see that it went a long way, when I read about electronic regulations and doctor's notes. I hope that we will have enough in hand, including in your cabinet, during the negotiations with Proximus, so that this can be done correctly, because it must not replace the general practitioner. I have heard some good things, such as that it is limited to the general practitioner who manages the patient's medical records. That is a bit of a nuance, but I am curious about the appropriate and new funding system you have just mentioned. I'll follow up on this file. I hope that we can give this a good place and that, in addition to a physical meeting with the general practitioner, this can be an additional asset for the patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u64	Mr President, Mr Rigot, I have to answer you in three steps. There is the aspect related to the postponement of care due to the covid crisis, the general aspect related to survival after cardiac arrest and the external automatic defibrillators (AEDs) and, finally, the aspect of future initiatives. With regard to the postponement of cardiac care and other hospital specialties due to the covid crisis, a study carried out by the "Audit des hôpitaux" unit of the INAMI, the SPF Santé publique and the AFMPS concerning hospital care during the first and second covid waves estimated in its conclusions, it seems, the postponement of hospital care to 15%, which is not thin. The analysis work is still being refined, but it will be important to have the same type of analysis for the third wave, where it is thought to have counted fewer delays in care and even re-launched certain activities. As of September, all data for a third wave report will be available. I have therefore asked the administration to prepare a note for a possible recovery plan. With regard to the general aspect of survival after cardiac arrest and EADs, I refer to the findings of study 294B of the Federal Centre of Expertise for Health Care published in 2017: "In the impossibility of quantifying the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of defibrillation programmes by the general public in Belgium, the KCE cannot comment on the relevance of this intervention. This does not mean that EADs are useless. That's the opposite! Used in ideal conditions, they actually save lives. Unfortunately, in the current state of affairs, their impact on overall cardiac arrest mortality will remain limited in our country, especially as long as the other stages of the survival chain are neglected." Instead, the KCE recommends optimising the different stages of the survival chain, in particular by improving the level of skills of the general public through information campaigns and by introducing compulsory training for young people from secondary school, as is successfully done in Scandinavian countries or in companies. To go further, it would be interesting to test new approaches to shorten the time between cardiac arrest and the use of an EAD, for example, the use of mobile devices by professionals such as police or firefighters, or the training of volunteers who would be immediately localizable and mobilizable by emergency services when they are in the vicinity of a person in cardiac arrest. Ministers with school education in their skills are also being sensitized by associations such as the Belgian Heart Rhythm Association or the Belgian Resuscitation Council. For my part, I asked my administration to conduct a study on the feasibility and modalities of a FirstMed stakeholder system within our emergency medical assistance system. I expect the results of this study in 2022. With respect to future initiatives, such as the use of digital tools and telemedicine, I refer to the ongoing study at the Federal Centre of Health Care Expertise on remote surveillance of patients with implantable cardiac devices. The objective of this Health technology assessment report is to assess the effectiveness, safety and cost-effectiveness of remote surveillance of implantable cardiac devices – defibrillators, implantable heart pacemakers and implantable loop recorders. Without knowing the conclusions of this study, it is too early to speak about possible measures or initiatives. My firm and the competent units of INAMI closely monitor the progress of this study and will act as soon as possible on the basis of the results.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u65	Indeed, these two years were special. As you mentioned, it did not help in the detection of cardiovascular diseases. In Belgium, heart failure causes 230,000 deaths a year and 200,000 Belgians suffer from it. As you mentioned earlier, this is not your only competence. This is particularly true of your colleagues in the federal health and training bodies. It's about preventing and doing the right thing, especially to our teenagers as soon as possible. I hope that you will also address this issue in interdepartmental conferences with your colleagues to have a comprehensive approach to prevention, support and detection. The defibrillators are important, but they represent a very small rescue rate, certainly because they have been trivialized. In time, you don't even see them, you don't even know where they are and how they work. Here too, there will be actions to be taken in the future. I am certainly very pleased to see that you are taking the subject seriously with your administration and that you have commissioned studies and a real action plan. It must now be considered that cardiac arrest is not a fatality. It is also the responsibility of each of the victims. Obesity, stress and smoking are all causes. But it is also the medical responsibility of doctors to be attentive on the front line, as well as the responsibility of our society to train and prevent. In any case, I would be attentive to your actions in the coming months and years to narrow the gap between us and other European countries such as Germany and the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u66	Mrs Merckx has left us and let us know that her question has already been asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u67	Minister, you have already given some of the answer, but I would like to zoom in on the eight sessions provided for self-employed people through Un pass dans l'impasse. You spoke just now about the number of people who start the sessions and you also said how many psychologists had joined. How many percent of the participants have completed the eight sessions or stopped early? A second question is about a story that has come to my attention, but I don't know if it's true. I heard from a number of patients that they couldn't get a refund. Reference was made to a general practitioner's certificate which would be necessary for starting. In the project call I don't see any reference to that, but those people have already paid for those sessions. To what extent can they recover that payment because they assumed that the sessions would be free? Is there an ombud service where they can go?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u68	Mrs Depoorter, since the start of the project, 578 self-employed workers have been helped in the period from April to July, 390 in Flanders, 43 in Brussels and 145 in Wallonia. The vast majority of self-employed people appear to have been adequately helped after one or two sessions: 50.7 % after one session and 30.6 % after two sessions. A limited group of 9.7 % follows three sessions, 5.39 % follows four sessions, 1.5 % follows five sessions. Only 0.43 % uses the eight sessions. So that is absolutely marginal. You yourself said that a certificate or referral requirement is not necessary in order to be able to rely on the clinical psychological care provided in this offer. In the context of integrated care, however, it is requested that, subject to the consent of the rightholder, a communication be made between the clinical psychologist or orthopedagogic practitioner and the general practitioner, but this does not entail any additional costs for the rightholder. I'm not sure what to answer about the specific case you're pointing out. If you're allowed to violate anonymity, perhaps you could pass it on to my employee. Then we can take a look at exactly what has gone wrong, because frankly I am a little surprised.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u69	I'll ask people to contact me myself. I think that's more convenient than I am as a middleman. What you say about the number of self-employed people who have started and the 0.44% who have completed the sessions is precisely why I asked the question. That's what I'm worried about. You say the self-employed were helped after one or two sessions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u70	I didn't literally say that. They took one or two sessions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u71	You said they had enough with one or two sessions. That's where the shoe pinches. Did they have enough because they were helped or did they have enough because the need became too great to work in their business or in the business of someone else to pay off the debts that corona brought with them? When assessing to what extent this project was effective in helping our self-employed will be absolutely necessary. It's been a nice project. It had good intentions, but the goal has not been achieved. That is why I asked the specific question of whether we have made progress and whether we have actually helped self-employed people to get back on the road. Or did we knock ourselves on the chest that we would help those people without real results? I would be surprised if only 0.44% of the self-employed were in need of psychological assistance. Maybe they just didn't have time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u72	Two questions were asked to me, one by Mr Rigot and the other by Mrs Fonck, both on the same subject. At the 8 July meeting, the Interministerial Conference on Public Health, a thematic meeting on Drugs, confirmed the priorities and actions proposed by the General Policy Unit on Drugs. In the area of alcohol, the ambition is to implement an inter-federal policy on the harmful use of alcohol. "Given the scale of the problem and the number of policy areas involved, this policy will be developed in phases. In a first phase, objectives, outlines and priority areas will be identified and verified. This should lead to a background note to be submitted to this thematic meeting on Drugs in 2022. On the basis of this note, work on the development of an inter-federal alcohol policy will be continued." It is therefore not currently possible for me to anticipate the content of the work of the working group which will be set up this autumn to prepare this inter-federal policy. However, I agree with you that the current rules on advertising for alcoholic beverages, but also on the availability of such beverages, are insufficient and need to be strengthened. The consultation will therefore take place at inter-federal level within the working group specifically dedicated to the issue within the framework of the General Policy Unit on Drugs. The agenda depends on the progress of the work of the working group. As indicated, the aim is to obtain a first baseline score reflecting the objectives, outlines and priority areas in the course of 2022.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u73	Thank you, Minister. I confess that your answer – which is not an answer to your action alone – is a lack of will on the part of our country in the light of a "Alcool" action plan that has been expected for many years. It's time to move. We are among those members of Europe who at the time – in 2011 – validated the recommendation of the World Health Organization (WHO) to have a national action plan on alcohol. Today, ten years later, you are referring to a phase 1 that would be implemented in 2022. This phase 1 is only a first analysis which does not yet put in place concrete actions on the ground to address this tragedy and the consequences of alcohol. In Belgium, the health and social costs of over-consumption of alcohol and its consequences are estimated at EUR 4 billion, including the impossibility of going to work and the medical consequences. I believe that there is an urgent need today to take a voluntary approach that will protect the most vulnerable from the ravages of alcohol, especially young people. Care must be taken to reflect on what we accept as alcohol advertising, on how companies in the sector approach consumers. We must adopt a proactive policy, as we have done with regard to smoking. These insurances cost our society and also cost lives.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u74	I refer to my written question. It's obviously a question from a while ago.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u75	This question has indeed lost a bit of topical value. The first question was when we started preparing a KB so that the self-tests are no longer made available in the pharmacy alone. We started on June 17th. You also asked why no contact was made with the professional association. I think that your other questions show that we have contacted the professional association. We have always said that the restriction of distribution to pharmacies was an exception. That seemed justified to us as long as most of the self-tests on the market were derogated professional tests. You remember that. We have also explained this to the sector. We did not want to set a deadline, because it depended on the evolving market situation. Gradually, more and more self-tests have been issued which have undergone a normal conformity procedure through a notified body. Like all other in vitro diagnostics, they go into a free distribution circuit. Pharmacists may, of course, still sell their stocks of the desiccated self-tests. I advise everyone to go to the pharmacist to do so. You also asked why it was determined "as long as supplies last." There has been no consultation on the KB with the producers. For the three producers of derogated self-tests, it was 'as long as stocks last'. That still applies, by the way. Derogations always spell out the following. This derogation shall be granted until it is withdrawn where the FAGG considers that sufficient CE-certified self-tests are available in accordance with the national test strategy or until the derogated test has obtained a CE certificate from a notified body. Roche told us to have received a CE certificate for their antigen self-test in June, which meant that this derogation expired before 1 July. The derogations of the companies Biosynex and New Gene Bioengineering were suspended because the FAGG considered that sufficient CE certified antigen self-testing was available on the Belgian market from 1 July 2021.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u76	Minister, as regards your answer to the third part of the question, namely that it was previously communicated that it was a temporary measure, that is correct, but the introduction of the measure was not achieved by a consultation between mid-June and 1 July. There was no communication, no consultation. It is true that the pharmacists knew it was temporary, but 14 days for a stock that was entered was still tight. That wasn't the agreement made between your cabinet and the professional association. As for my question about Roche's 'for as long as stocks last' communication, I have often said that it is surprising that when the measure entered into force on 1 April, only two firms were ready with all the necessary validation tests and those two were the only ones who finally received the validation in the first six weeks that the measure was in force. Once again, it was surprising that Roche........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I have said it before: there is a suspicion of insider dealing in this file. I'll keep following it up and looking into it. It would be particularly unfortunate that for such important cases SMEs that have made heavy investments are in uncertainty. This was indeed the case on the eve of 1 July: the smaller SMEs, with their large stock, were in uncertainty as to whether their product could still be sold. That's a working point to take with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u77	Mr President, Minister, at the risk of being associated with sewer water for life, I would like to ask another question. Reports on wastewater monitoring have recently been published by Sciensano. I have to confess they're nice reports. They really did their best at Sciensano to analyze the data properly. However, I must also point out that this requires some research, which is a pity. To get that comprehensive report, one really needs to know where to look. Some improvement is possible on this point. I have already asked several questions on the subject. When we heard from Sciensano about this, the institution indicated that interesting data can be distilled from the sewage water figures and also that the data on virus particles found in the sewage water are three days ahead of the positive cases that are screened afterwards via PCR tests, for example. I believe that this can open up prospects for faster and more targeted detection. I am thinking, for example, of periods such as the current period, where relaxation is possible and where a large part of the population can be monitored in a simple and invasive way, which makes it possible to detect fireplaces. Here's what I'm wondering. The data is processed so nicely. What's going to be done with that? Sciensano told us that the figures would be discussed with the RAG. Can you explain the RAG's assessment of the data and its usability? Will those data also be processed and used to supplement the surveillance data? Will they also give rise to targeted and local testing? Are local authorities, for example, informed about this? I've asked a number of mayors from places where the sewer water is being examined, if they'll be kept informed. It seems, however, that this is not the case. What's the next plan in that respect? Is it intended to further develop or refine the detection method? After all, 45% of the population is already being screened in this way. However, not everywhere the sewer water is currently monitored. Is the method still being refined? Will the technique to detect pathogens in the sewer water also be used for subsequent infectious diseases or epidemics?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u78	Mrs Gijbels, the evaluation by the RAG is positive. The RAG discussed this at its meeting on 14 July. The communication and integration of the results of the wastewater into the evaluation of the epidemiological situation by the RAG, and validated by the RMG, is now effective, with a weekly update. Waste water is an early indicator and thus a complement to other indicators already used. Are we using this to judge our surveillance? Yes, the results of the waste water analysis in global surveillance and the resulting risk analysis are taken into account. Will this give rise to targeted and local testing? No, that's not feasible right now. The current monitoring of wastewater, in global form, follows large population groups of generally over 50,000 inhabitants. There is no point in testing 50,000 people at some point. This is a global surveillance that makes it possible to follow the trends in the circulation of the virus. That's something other than a more localized surveillance that would make it possible to detect infection sites. Are we gonna build this up and refine it? Initiatives to this effect have been taken in Flanders and Wallonia and can be developed if necessary if feedback is positive. The Walloon partners informed us of an initiative launched some time ago for a more localised succession of an area near Namur, but I have not yet received any feedback on this. Will the technique be applied to future infectious diseases or epidemics? Indeed, it seems relevant to use this technique in future for the monitoring of other infectious diseases or compounds, pharmaceutical products, medicines and so on. The instrument in its present form is not suitable for all pathogens or compounds. Their adaptation and usefulness must first be further investigated. The emphasis should be placed on diseases and links that are most worrying for public health, including at international level.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u79	Minister, I am pleased to hear that the figures for sewage are finally taken into account and evaluated favourably by the RAG. I am sorry that it has taken so long, I have been asking for this for a long time. If it turns out to be a useful instrument, it is a pity that this has not been used before. We could really use anything in times when it was so intense. That is why I really regret that not everything was put on the table at the time. This does not concern you alone, of course, you were not, in part, a minister at the time. But I'm very sorry it all has to drag on for so long. As you say, we are currently monitoring too large a group of people in order to be able to test properly. That is why I ask you to look at the Netherlands and apply these techniques on a smaller scale. International studies also show that it is a simple and inexpensive way to monitor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u80	I refer to my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u81	There's a discussion between my policy cell and FAGG about the cannabis agency. We are looking at the dossier as a whole, to analyse the most urgent needs and priorities, as far as medical cannabis is concerned. The feedback of the Treasury inspection on the previous version of the implementing decisions for the cannabis agency during the previous legislature is also examined in detail. It was then considered that the plan was not yet ripe and should be further developed. In addition, the opinion referred to the government of current cases. In the meantime, the covid crisis has intervened and the dossier has not been treated as a priority. My administration is working on that now. At the beginning of October, a further consultation is planned between the FAGG and my policy cell. In due course, the dossier will also be submitted to stakeholders, but it is not yet ready to be presented to outsiders. As far as the High Health Council's opinion is concerned, I have no further news on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u82	Mr Minister, there is clearly not much progress on this dossier. It has been a long time since that change took place and the agency should have been set up. I'll keep following the file. I will put the question again, because it is very difficult for me to move forward with this answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u83	Madam President, Minister, this question is the conversion of a written question into an oral question, since the written question was not answered within the prescribed time limit. I refer to the text of the question as tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u84	Madam President, Minister, I would also like to refer to the text of the question as tabled, just because the question dates back to early July, when it is almost the end of September.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u85	My question, Minister, on the same subject, still applies. After all, I suspect that the chairman of the Public Health Office is still on sick leave. Mr. Secretary, do you have any idea of the condition of that person? Can you also tell us how his replacement is going? Can the FOD do decent work with the interim director? Is everything as it should be? Has that been evaluated yet? What is the planning for the future? What sustainable solution is being sought? What preparations will be made for when the director returns? There are evaluations, no evaluations and consequences of evaluations. I would have liked to have had an update on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u86	Madam President, this question has indeed remained for a long time because of the lack of an answer, but the answer I have to give to some of Mrs Gijbel's questions is a long list. I suggest I don't read these, but just hand them over to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u87	Mr Minister, I received the comment from the secretariat last time that this apparently cannot be done because the answer is not available to everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u88	That's a practical problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u89	I'd like to read it to you, but you'll have to listen for a long time. It's not very interesting, though. As for Mrs Gijbels' first question, the Public Health Office was entrusted with various tasks throughout this crisis. [[The main tasks are the purchase, acquisition and distribution of mouth masks to healthcare institutions; coordination between different bodies and policy cells, such as IMCs and IKWs; setting up transports between hospitals; defining phases and thresholds for the different hospitals, such as 1A, 1B, 2A and 2B; consultation with the primary and outpatient care search committee; strategic planning of a test strategy; the operational development of the testing strategy; the establishment and management of the federal testing platform; the collection of data and the management of the data flow, for example in the context of vaccination; obtaining, disseminating and possibly validating scientific advice, for example the advice of the High Health Council and the RMG; answering and organising assistance from abroad; the financing of the federal government and the supervision of the disease; taking into account the logistics and distribution of the vaccines; as chairman of the COVID-19 policies; the management of the federal strategic stock;]] We have also installed the Commissioner, who has taken many things to heart. Despite the establishment of the Commissariat, the entire Public Health Office has been cooperating over the past year and a half to combat the pandemic as effectively as possible. In addition, the services continued to fulfil their other tasks. The services that have been most intensively involved with covid are the services of the Chairman, International Relations, the Crisis Management Service, the Disaster Management Cell, the B-FAST cell, the BHE cell etc., the Budget and Management Service, the Emergency Care Service, Acute and Chronic Care, Psychosocial Health Care, Data and Policy Information, Health Occupations and Financing of Hospitals, the High Health Council, the Animal, Plant and Nutrition Service, the Information and Communication Technology Service and the Communication Service. I can give an even more detailed overview, but I think this is enough. Mrs. Gijbels, you referred to a database. At present, there is no database allowing the active outpatient care providers to be identified, either at the Public Health Office or at the RIZIV, or in any other federal institution or institution belonging to the Länder. In order to address this deficiency, the Health Care Service was instructed to identify active primary care providers in order to provide them with protective equipment and to ensure that it is kept up-to-date. The starting point is the register of health care professionals with more than 660,000 healthcare professionals who are authorised to practice their profession in Belgium. This is updated on the basis of the national register and allows to have the home address of each practitioner. By linking that data to the most recent data from the RIZIV, the RSZ and the RSVZ and taking into account the specific characteristics of the practice and practice of each profession, a list of 158,704 active outpatient practitioners could be drawn up. The aim was to reduce the theoretical number of professionals who had access to the profession by filtering on certain combinations of criteria. Those professionals were able to obtain protective masks for the resumption of outpatient activities, as well as a strategic stock of protective equipment, the composition of which was established in cooperation with the councils of each profession. I also tell you that there is a continuous evaluation within and outside the FPS on how to improve crisis management, and we are, of course, very much looking forward to the recommendations of the Federal Parliament's Corona Committee. Ms Sneppe, the normal evaluation procedure of the President of the FPS was carried out in accordance with the current rules on the designation, exercise and evaluation of mandate holders. I refer to the Royal Decree of 29 October 2001. There is no negative evaluation but an indication to be developed. The evaluation dossier belongs to the personnel file of the person concerned. It is neither public nor public. Mrs Depoorter, I cannot, of course, say anything about the medical condition of the person concerned. Within the framework of the new administrative agreement that will be drawn up between the FOD and myself, attention is of course paid to the functioning of the FOD, which includes the reorganisation or organisation of the direction of the FOD or the way in which the FOD is organized internally. The current chairman of the FOD will be replaced by Mr Philippe Mortier.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u90	Minister, I understand that it is not easy or annoying to have to read such a list of answers. But the most interesting thing you have missed is the profiles that were active during the crisis, their expertise, their training, to what extent they were fit or able to deal with this crisis and whether additional people were attracted, what their profile was and whether they were temporary or permanent recruitments. I will put that as an additional question. We have indeed made a number of recommendations on the database in the special committee. I think it is important to have an active and dynamic database of all active care providers, which unfortunately is not yet the case, as I am confirmed. As far as the screening is concerned, you say that there is a continuous evaluation. But that is something that the majority did not agree with in the special committee: whether there should also be a specific post-covid evaluation of such an important service that has been involved in so many cases during this crisis. I think it is very important that we also hear from the people there how it all went down, whether they have improvement points and so on, really specifically focused on that crisis. I think there is one thing we absolutely must avoid, and that is that we leave lessons behind after such a difficult period. We really have to do everything we can to do better next time and pick up everything there is to learn. You say that you are looking forward to the advice of the special committee, but I can tell you that there was no majority in favour of a specific review, which our group deeply regrets.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u91	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you have given me some rather unspeakable answers, at least to my questions. It is good that the file is not public and I am not asking for it to be thrown on the pavement, but it would be useful for Parliament to have access to it. You have not really answered the questions about the consequences for the much-needed reforms of the health structures and the FPS itself. I will look up the usual protocols myself in the Royal Decree of 29 October 2001. What am I supposed to imagine in a normal evaluation? How does it go exactly? I did not receive an answer to that question either.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u92	Minister, I understand, of course, that you cannot go into the case file of the person concerned, but it is very special that someone with such an important role can continue to do so. A person with such an important function can therefore withdraw on sick leave. Everyone has the right to rehabilitation, of course, but the government cannot go beyond the planned evaluation. You say that you will continue to evaluate, but that is not enough. The N-VA already indicates from the start of the crisis that this organisation was not prepared for such a crisis and that it was not properly managed during the crisis. You indicated it at point one, buying the mouth masks. Minister, it was this service that destroyed the stock and not rebuilt it. How is it possible, then, that the director of such an important organisation could still have problems with its operation? How is it possible that a sick note is the alibi not to thoroughly reform for the future? Evaluating is not enough. Reforming and anticipating a crisis policy is necessary. As my colleague has said, our recommendation on this matter has not been accepted by the Public Health Office or the FAGG. This is particularly regrettable, because we should nevertheless show that we want to learn lessons from the crisis and draw a clear line under a policy that was not enough for patients and care providers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u93	Minister, rare diseases are defined as diseases with a prevalence of less than one in every 2,000 people. These disorders are generally chronic in nature, some of which are very disabling or fatal, such as cystic fibrosis or Huntington's disease. It is estimated that 6 to 8% of people suffer from a rare disease, which means that in our country between 660,000 and 880,000 Belgians could suffer from such a disease. In 2009, the European Commission called on Member States to draw up a Rare Disease Plan by the end of 2013. As early as February 2009, the House of Representatives unanimously adopted a resolution to establish such an action plan for rare diseases and orphan drugs. Under the leadership of the then Minister of Public Health, Laurette Onkelinx, the Rare Diseases and Orphan Drugs Fund submitted a report at the end of 2011 containing 42 recommendations across eleven areas of work. The next step in the process was to identify concrete actions and actions as a result of these recommendations. As a result, the Rare Diseases Plan was launched in 2013. Minister, do you have any recent figures on the evolution of the number of patients with rare diseases in Belgium? What global assessment can you give us of the Rare Diseases Plan since it came into force in 2013? Finally, are there any plans for an evaluation and updating of this plan? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u94	Mr Prévot, as you said, it is estimated that between 6 and 8 per cent of the population has a rare disease. In view of the fragmentation of the available data on rare diseases, the Central Register for Rare Diseases provided for in the Belgian plan of 2013 is being developed by Sciensano. The Central Register of Rare Diseases collects epidemiological data with the aim, among other things, of having a clear vision of the impact of rare diseases in our country. By May 2020, approximately 7,000 cases had been registered in the central registry. The continued development of the central register will therefore make it possible to have increasingly accurate data on rare diseases in Belgium. The actions provided for in the plan have largely been carried out in the context of access to diagnosis. Funding for genetic testing abroad is provided by an agreement between INAMI and genetic centres. For the organization of care, accreditation standards have been established for rare disease functions and networks and reference centres for haemophilia have been established. Meanwhile, the federated entities recognized eight hospitals with a function for rare diseases. The care is organized into networks of rare disease groups so that an exchange of expertise can take place and patients are offered the best possibilities for diagnosis and treatment. The federal government has set aside a total of EUR 1 million per year for hospitals with an approved function for rare diseases in order to continue the operationalization of this function. As part of the management of information on rare diseases, a Central Register of Rare Diseases has been established. Given the limited number of patients, cooperation at European level remains crucial. The European reference networks launched in 2017 and bringing together more than 900 teams of specialised experts will certainly bring new added value. In Belgium, 68 teams of experts from 10 hospitals participate in the European reference network. An agreement was also reached with the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Austria and Ireland on orphan medicinal products. By negotiating with the pharmaceutical industry, we can, together with other countries, better control the price of orphan drugs. In order to provide the best possible care for patients with rare diseases, it will be important to continue to focus on the organisation of care in functions and networks at national level and on cooperation within the framework of European reference networks, as well as on the development of the Central Register of Rare Diseases and international cooperation in the field of orphan medicinal products. An analysis of the "rare diseases" plan and the needs of actors in the field is under way within the "rare diseases" fund of the King Baudouin Foundation. On the basis of this analysis, an identification of possible gaps in the implementation of the "rare diseases" plan will be possible and new proposals for action can be developed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u95	Minister, thank you for your answers. I understand that a Central Registry of Rare Diseases is being developed by Sciensano in order to have a clear and objective view of it. I noted that 7,000 cases had been registered in May 2020 but that this was obviously still under development. Thank you also for reminding us of the actions that have been taken and are being carried out to better control the price of orphan medicinal products. Here too, it is a project that must be of concern to us and for which we must continue to fight. I also hear that there are other analyses under way. I will not fail to return to you. In any case, thank you for this first snapshot of the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u96	Mr Minister, as we have already pointed out in this committee, the coronavirus epidemic must not occult other diseases in our country, including HIV. Let me also point out that the number of new cases has, unfortunately, increased further by 4% in 2019 and 2020. In addition to the condom, there is a preventive drug: PrEP, pre-exposure prophylaxis. This medication consists of two antiretroviral drugs that can be taken in two ways, either daily or on the eve of unprotected sex and then for the next two days. This medication would prevent contamination in more than 90% of cases. In Belgium, the prescription of PrEP is reserved for doctors attached to the AIDS reference centres, and the generic medicine is reimbursed by our health care system. Moreover, according to Inami's reimbursement data and the estimated number of homosexual men with potentially risky sexual behaviour, the number of persons likely to benefit from this treatment could be even higher. Since June 1st, France has decided that PrEP could be prescribed by general practitioners, whether it be a prescription renewal or a first prescription. Similarly, PrEP would be available in pharmacies, which is obviously a major step forward in terms of access to an anti-HIV preventive tool that has proven its scientific effectiveness. Minister, could you give us figures on the number of people who use PrEP in Belgium? What initiatives could be taken, in collaboration with the federated entities, to promote this pre-exposure treatment? Is there any current thinking to allow general practitioners to prescribe this medicine, which would then become available in pharmacies?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u97	With regard to the number of people using PrEP, some 3,555 single patients received a refund of PrEP in a Belgian clinic in 2019. HIV policy is the responsibility of the federated entities in a number of areas, including prevention. The federal government is organizing consultations with federated entities on certain aspects of prevention policy, including HIV, as part of the interdepartmental public health conference. This consultation was launched recently. In 2021, in consultation with the federated entities, consideration will be given to what policy measures should be taken to address HIV in terms of prevention, diagnosis, treatment and quality of life for people living with HIV. Pre-exposure treatment will be included in these discussions. With regard to your last question about general practitioners, PrEP is available via Truvada medicine and generics of this reference product. The summary of the characteristics of Truvada, approved by the European Commission, indicates that treatment should be initiated by physicians experienced in the management of HIV infection. Therefore, the AFMPS has given a legal status that requires that the first prescription be made by a specialist. Follow-up orders may be prescribed by a general practitioner.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u98	Minister, thank you for your answers. HIV is a scourge that must continue to be addressed. Since we have not yet found a way to treat him, we must be able to stop him and prevent his spread. Condoms remain a very safe way, but since this medication is available, it is also necessary to be able to consider its use in a slightly wider way. I will not fail to follow this file closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u99	According to the latest national health survey (2018), 12% of the adult Belgian population use a sleeping pill or sedative from the benzodiazepine group. Today it seems that the pandemic has aggravated the sleep problems of our fellow citizens and has therefore increased the use of these psychotropic drugs. According to VUB, the proportion of insomniacs was 9% during the first confinement and 29% during the second confinement. What is disturbing is that, according to figures estimated by the Public Health FPS, one in three patients are still taking these drugs eight years after starting treatment, compared to the only two recommended weeks. However, the side effects of prolonged consumption are well known: addiction, diurnal drowsiness, dizziness, etc. The Benzonet project at the University of Ghent sought to better understand the long-term experiences of users of these drugs. Thirty people who had been using or had been using these drugs for a long time were interviewed between July 2019 and February 2021. The results show that the majority of patients received little information on the long-term effects, the recommended cessation date, and the simple cessation of treatment. They have also received little information on possible alternatives to address the underlying causes of this consumption. Minister, the latest national survey in 2018, do you have up-to-date figures on the consumption of benzodiazepines, particularly following the health crisis? How can the public be better informed about the effects of long-term consumption? How can doctors be made more aware of this and thus improve prescribing behaviour? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u100	Mr Prévot, we do not have detailed data on the delivery of benzodiazepines because these are medicines that are not reimbursed and therefore not included in the Pharmanet system. Based on the figures of the Belgian Pharmaceutical Association, we see larger monthly fluctuations in 2020 than in 2019, but the monthly trend remains stable or even decreasing in 2020. The annual consumption review shows that the downward trend begun in 2014 also continues in 2020. While in 2019, 421 million defined daily doses were still delivered in public clinics, we note that the decrease continues in 2020 with 415 million defined daily doses delivered in total on an annual basis. Sciensano regularly conducts surveys to assess the evolution of sleeping and sedative use during pandemics. The December 2020 survey reports that the intake of sleeping pills or tranquilizers affects 21% of respondents, of whom 42% have started or increased their consumption since the health crisis. Public information and awareness is the responsibility of the federated entities. On the other hand, several initiatives to sensitize health professionals to the rational use of psychotropic drugs have been launched and will continue to be strengthened. More information can be found at www.somniferesetcalmants.be. These include tools developed for physicians and pharmacists such as a help manual and an online training module, as well as posters for patients for waiting rooms. My services are currently examining how to adapt this material to front-line psychologists.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u101	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I do believe that the prolonged use of these medicines has a negative effect on the health of our citizens, as this crisis has shown. I therefore think that the subject should be taken in arms-to-body. I would also like to thank you for explaining what measures are currently in place in this regard. For this too, I will certainly come back to you soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u102	Thank you, colleague Prévot. We came to question number 16. Mr. Secretary, how long can you stay?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u103	I do not want Mr Prévot, who has had to be patient, to ignore my answer to his question, but propose that we stop afterwards.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u104	Okay, then I give the floor to Mr Prévot.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u105	Thank you, Minister. I am therefore referring to my question as it was tabled. "Mr. Minister,
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u106	Mr Prévot, following questions about the risks to human health of money in masks ordered by the Department of Defense, Sciensano launched the AgMask project in October 2020. It took place in two distinct phases. The first phase was to analyze the masks in order to characterize the fibers and determine the type of money used for their treatment. From these initial results it appeared that silver and titanium dioxide can be found in different physical forms and also in the form of nanoparticles in the fibres of the masks concerned. While titanium dioxide is suspected to be a carcinogenic substance when exposed by inhalation, Sciensano noted that the substance is incorporated into the fibres of the masks. Silver in the form of nanoparticles seems to be more on the surface of textile fibres, as is the case when an article is processed after it has been produced. I'm going to the second phase. Since the use of comfort masks is a new use for the general public, there are currently no realistic exposure measurements and simulations of oral mask users' exposure in the literature. Thus, in a second phase, Sciensano is currently conducting a study to correctly determine the amount of silver in all its physical forms and titanium dioxide nanoparticles that is released and can be inhaled when using masks. The results of this study will be made public as soon as they become available. The results of the first phase of the AgMask project were transmitted to the competent authorities. A preliminary opinion of the Higher Council of Health was published on 23 February 2021. A new version of this opinion adding a scientific context and corresponding references was published on 26 August 2021. In parallel with the AgMask project, the SSCE FPS carried out an inspection campaign in March 2021 on fabric oral masks available on the Belgian market. A significant number of comfort masks have been sampled and analysed as to whether or not biocides are present and whether they comply with the EU biocidal regulations. These results will also be made public as soon as they become available. You are asking whether binding standards will be laid down for the composition of comfort masks in the future. With the exception of the labelling provided for in the "biocidal" legislation for the articles treated, no specific information for the marketing authorities or users should be available on the mask. Moreover, at this stage, no European chemical legislation provides a transversal solution to the chemical composition of articles on the Belgian market, possibly prohibiting certain techniques and/or substances and informing the consumer. In June last year, and in agreement with my colleague in charge of the Environment, I decided to ask the Higher Health Council to complete its first opinion, following the inspection campaign on these specific issues. The use of masks outside the current crisis requires legislation on composition or labelling. According to the conclusions and recommendations of the Conseil supérieur de la Santé, a specific royal decree could be considered, in order to avoid the same situation of uncertainty as to the health risks caused by the composition of the masks themselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u107	Minister, thank you for responding to these famous masks that have made them talk so much about them. You're all the more comfortable because you weren't at the manoeuvring in these controls. I also hear that Sciensano is continuing a complementary study of these nanoparticles and other substances that could be found on the masks and that its conclusions should be made public shortly. That's good news. I also note your proactive attitude to the Higher Health Council on the following two themes: the use of masks outside of pandemic periods and the need to legislate on labelling. This seems to me necessary, in order to avoid repeating some mistakes made at the beginning of the crisis. I will therefore pay close attention to the conclusions of this work. In any case, I thank you for the very comprehensive answers you have given me today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic568x.u108	This concludes this oral question-and-answer session. These are several issues that date back to early July. Having said that, we have discussed major topical debates. Mr Minister, your presence will remain necessary next week, but I am confident that we will catch up with the current situation.
