ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic547x.u1	At the Antwerp Linkeroever near Zwijndrecht, works were started for the construction of the Scheldetunnel in the Oosterweelroute. Due to the tunnel works, large parts of the area will remain heavily contaminated with PFOS. The reason for the presence of PFOS lies with the American company 3M, which produced the substance there for years.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic547x.u2	As a result of road works, a significant amount of PFOS was 'discovered' in Zwijndrecht. The cause of this presence of PFOS is attributed to its production for 30 years by 3M. However, the University of Antwerp had published studies since 2004, denouncing the presence of this substance near the factory. The Flemish authorities, competent in terms of environmental pollution investigation, have advised not to consume eggs and poultry from their own production or local water, in the immediate vicinity (1.5 km) of the 3M site, not to eat eggs from their hens within a radius of 5 km and to eat only one per week within a radius of 10 km. These measures demonstrate the seriousness of the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic547x.u3	Minister, I have already questioned you twice about the perfluorooctane sulfonates (PFOS) pollution in Zwijndrecht, but so far I have not received any answers. When I questioned you at the plenary session in mid-June about food safety and PFOS pollution in Zwijndrecht, you replied that the Federal Food Chain Safety Agency (FSA) would carry out additional research. On 1 July, the BFSA announced that no disturbing values had been measured in the agricultural products in the region of Zwijndrecht. All results would be below the action limits. However, it appears that the BFSA's action limits are based on an old 2008 standard of the European Food Agency (EFSA). Last year, on 22 September 2020, EFSA published a new standard, which is 238 times stricter than that of 2008. Specifically, the tolerated daily intake of PFOS in 2008 was 150 μg/kg body weight. EFSA reduced that standard to 0.63 μg/kg body weight per day, not only for PFOS but for the sum of the four most common poly- and perfluoroalkyls (pfas) together. This means that for PFOS alone, the standard was 238 times stricter. The BFSA therefore draws conclusions based on totally obsolete standards. We therefore require you to release the measurement data of the BFSA. When I asked you about this in plenary last week, you remained guilty of the answer. However, this concerns food safety and no risk should be taken of it. Will you make the measurement data of the BFSA public? Which readings were measured exactly? What is the highest measurement value measured? Do you think these measurements are acceptable? In other words, do you agree with the BFSA that the measurement values are reassuring? Do you believe that the PFOS standards used by the BFSA in its agricultural product monitoring campaign are adequate? Will you force the BFSA to apply the new standards? What are the consequences for the farmers affected? Will you fully compensate the affected farmers and farmers?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic547x.u4	The PFOS dossier concerns not only the inhabitants of Zwijndrecht, who have been given the council not to consume vegetables from their own garden or eggs from their chickens. In the vicinity of Zwijndrecht there is also a lot of regular agriculture.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic547x.u5	Mr President, Minister, I have already asked two questions in plenary, but I still have a lot of questions. You mentioned the approach taken by the BFSA last week in the plenary session proactively, but I cannot agree with that. It would have been proactive if the BFSA had also adapted the action limits to the most scientific findings. Why didn't that happen, since you were aware that there were new insights? In a press release dated 1 July 2021, you indicated that the BFSA would analyse samples of food from farms within a radius of 15 kilometres around the factory. That is certainly a good thing, but I asked you on 8 July whether there is sufficient laboratory capacity available for this and you could not answer that question. Can you now confirm that there will effectively be sufficient laboratory capacity? Or is enlargement necessary? How will the results be made public and communicated? Can you explain that? It is also possible that farmers may have to take additional samples on the basis of this additional sampling campaign and do self-checking. Farmers are afraid of that. They have already asked for tenders for these additional samples and the cost price is very high, for example EUR 1,700 for a sample taken on five vegetables. These are considerable costs, knowing that farmers' profit margins are very low. Will farmers have to take the samples? Will they be reimbursed extra by the BFSA or what support measures or support will you provide for them? You also indicated that there was a call at European level for harmonised standards for the contamination of foodstuffs to be established as soon as possible and for an urgent procedure to be put in place. However, it is unclear when the results will be available. You first said that there would be new standards by December 2021. Minister Vandenbroucke said in the Committee on Health and Equal Opportunities that these new harmonised standards would be there by mid 2022. Your press release then stated that it would be December 2021. Can you finally clarify when we can expect the new European standards? Is it September 2021, December 2021 or mid 2022? Finally, I have still not received any answers to my questions on the financial compensation for the severely affected farmers. Are you already in consultation with the European Commission on possible support measures for affected farmers? Or is this discussed at federal or inter-federal level?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic547x.u6	Mr President, Minister, I too would like to refer once again to my question which I put to you in plenary on Thursday 8 July 2021. You pointed out at that time that there are no action limits in a number of other European countries and that the BFSA has therefore actually worked proactively. I'd like to believe that. Congratulations on that. I still have the question, as EFSA has put forward a new guide value in 2020, why the old action limits are still being used. In the meantime, it's July 2021. In the meantime, why have these directives not been amended? Secondly, you also referred in your reply to the new EFSA guidelines. You mentioned the new samples taken near the 3M plant in Zwijndrecht. Then I wonder if they are examined, examined or measured with the new standards. Is this still happening with the old action limits based on the old standards? There's something else I'm worried about. The Scientific Committee (SciCom) has pointed out that the European context is not representative of the Belgian context when it comes to food safety, because we live in a densely populated and highly industrialised area. It is recommended to apply the ALARA principle as soon as possible and to take into account the P95 contamination levels of background contamination from Belgian data. I agree with you that the BFSA has indeed been proactive when it comes to the action limits. In the meantime, however, it is as if we have stopped, because we have not yet adapted the new standards, which are being put forward by Europe and which is confirmed by our own scientific advice. So I'm waiting for more activity from that side.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic547x.u7	Minister, for several weeks, PFOS, and more generally PFAS, have been at the heart of the news due to PFOS levels found in the ground in Zwijndrecht. Last week, we spoke in plenary about AFSCA's use of risk thresholds hundreds of times less stringent than those currently advocated by the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) in its analyses of meat, milk and eggs produced in the polluted area. Minister, I am aware that my time on topical issues is limited. I understand, therefore, that there is no time to fully answer all the questions that are being asked to you. Nevertheless, I shall return to the questions that have been put to you in plenary. Minister, what can be said about the levels of PFOS found in eggs, meat and milk produced in Zwijndrecht, given the standards currently advocated by EFSA? On Thursday, 8 July, an interdepartmental conference on health and the environment was held on the issue of PFAS. Did you attend? If so, can we get some information on the points discussed, relating to the safety of the food chain? Feeding and drinking water consumption would be the main source of public exposure to PFAS. These substances are widely present in food packaging as well as in some pesticides - two exposure vectors cannot be overlooked. Can we have your feedback on this issue and, in particular, on the presence of PFAS in food packaging? Does AFSCA plan to analyze this issue? Can measures be considered?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic547x.u8	Mr President, Minister, I asked you a number of questions in plenary last week, and I wanted a real answer on a number of specific points. A first point on which you had not replied concerns the Inter-Ministerial Conference which took place last week. Which ministers were there, what was decided and what was your approach? I am a little concerned about the detection capacity of the labs, following what Minister Vandenbroucke said about this. Is it true that there is a problem with the limit of quantification (LoQ), which he referred to? Can you explain that? Are our labs still up-to-date, especially with regard to the equipment? On the limits, colleagues have already explained in detail. I still have questions about the report 22-2020 of the Scientific Committee (SciCom), which cites PFOS but clearly shows that it is not a priority and that no studies have been carried out on PFOS in animal feed. What is your opinion on this? Will this strategy be adapted?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic547x.u9	Ladies and gentlemen, as I have already been able to tell you twice in plenary, the BFSA and my cabinet are closely following the issue of environmental pollution with pfas in Zwijndrecht. On 3 June 2021, the BFSA was effectively contacted by the press in connection with environmental pollution in Zwijndrecht. On 7 June, the Agency for Health and Health contacted the BFSA on this matter. Once the BFSA had received the first information, it immediately contacted the OVAM to obtain more information about the precise situation in Zwijndrecht. It is up to the OVAM to provide a clear picture of the nature and extent of environmental pollution, both of the degree of contamination and of the geographical distribution. This is a historical contamination with pfas, which includes PFOS, caused by the company 3M in Zwijndrecht. This group of substances is very difficult to break down, but has many applications. The substances are widely used as coatings to make materials fat- or stain-resistant but also in fire-extinguishing products. Certain pfas are known to accumulate in the body of living beings and cause toxic effects. However, there is no acute risk associated with pfas. It should also be remembered that in terms of exposure to pfas, a distinction must be made between what is found in the store shelves of the supermarket and what can be consumed from one's own vegetable garden. First of all, it is very important to know that active monitoring of environmental pollution is not the responsibility of the BFSA. This research is carried out by the Regions; they must inform the BFSA in the event of contamination that may endanger the food chain. At that time, the BFSA will start its own research. It should also be remembered that the BFSA is not competent for any problems in private gardens. Since 2008, the BFSA has carried out checks on pfas through the general control programme, taking samples of food from the whole food chain, from the farmer to the store, spread throughout the territory of Belgium. The 450 samples taken produced no results indicating food contamination. As the Agency has only been aware of the problems in the region of the 3M plant since early June 2021, no targeted monitoring has been carried out in the past. Immediately after the BFSA was informed of the problem in Zwijndrecht, the steel already planned for 2021 was directed towards the zone around the 3M plant. Also in these samples no exceedance of the action limits was established. The highest value was established in an egg and was 2 micrograms PFOS per kilogram. In addition, it should be noted that the BFSA has launched a specific sampling campaign at the farms in the pollution zone, namely a sampling of sites within a radius of 15 kilometres around the 3M site. Samples of eggs, milk and meat were taken. Within a radius of 5 kilometres, almost all operators were sampled, outside this perimeter a certain percentage of companies were sampled at random. It goes without saying that not all operators were systematically sampled. Within the perimeter of 15 kilometers there are 14,594 well-known activities at the BFSA. Among other things, 12.497 parcels are cultivated, 523 for fruit production and 391 for vegetable production. In this 15 km zone there are 44 poultry keepers, of which 3 with laying hens, 105 dairy farms, 313 with other cattle, 98 with meat pigs and 256 with goats and/or sheep. This additional sampling campaign will provide a clearer picture of possible PFAs contamination on farmers in the zone. The results could be used to define a perimeter within which it is appropriate for farmers to carry out analyses of their products themselves. After all, European legislation obliges them to ensure that they market compliant products within the framework of self-checking. Each farmer shall consider the safety of his or her own production, taking into account the mode of production he or she uses. After all, there is a difference between growing in open land and growing in greenhouses, whether or not using soil and/or surface water as irrigation water, farms with run-off or not, etc. The BFSA will then, on the one hand, check whether operators take all measures to demonstrate that their products are safe, for example by means of analyses, and, on the other hand, carry out monitoring of products within its competence. Unfortunately, there are no European standards for pfas compounds in food. The European Commission is the only body competent to lay down harmonised standards at European level. The Authority is not empowered to set action limits or standards. At Belgian level, the FPS Public Health, Food Chain Safety and Environment is the competent authority to define national food safety standards and to follow the discussion of standards at European level. In the absence of standards, the BFSA developed action limits in 2008 on the basis of an opinion from the Scientific Committee of the BFSA. They are available on the Agency's website. Since 2008, 450 samples of food have been analysed throughout Belgium. In these samples, the action limits set by the BFSA were not exceeded. The BFSA therefore did not wait for the articles in the press about Zwijndrecht to check for pfas. In the meantime, EFSA of European Food Safety Authority delivered an opinion at European level in 2020. This opinion contains several foods, but does not include fruit and vegetables. Following the opinion, the BFSA asked the Scientific Committee for a new opinion, taking into account the EFSA opinion of 2020. The new opinion of the Scientific Committee was validated on 25 June 2021 and published on 1 July 2021. The European Commission will set standards based on the scientific opinion formulated by EFSA and taking into account legitimate feasibility factors such as the analytical capacity of the labs, the economic impact and local factors. At the same time, I instructed the BFSA to start a monitoring outside the contaminated zone, in order to make a substantiated assessment of the background contamination. It concerns the degree of contamination which can be considered normal and which is therefore not linked to a specific contamination. This information, together with the monitoring of the contaminated zone, is essential in order to obtain a clear view of the situation in Belgium. The first results of the monitoring in the zone around 3M are expected in mid-July 2021. The results of the background contamination monitoring are expected in mid-October 2021. From the start of the dossier, I urged the European Commission to develop harmonised European standards quickly. I have contacted the European Commissioner for Health and Food Safety, Mrs Kyriakides, and Commissioner for Agriculture and Rural Development Wojciechowski. On 1 July 2021, my cabinet, together with the Prime Minister's Cabinet and the Minister's Office of Health Vandenbroucke, took part in a consultation with the European Commission to strengthen my request. The European Commission has responded to my request and indicated that it will launch a rapid procedure with a view to presenting standards by the end of 2021. I cannot tell you what month – Europe will decide – but it will be by the end of this year. At the Joint Inter-Ministerial Conference on Environment and Health, which took place on 8 July, my cabinet was unable to participate, as it was not invited. The IMC focused on public health and the environment. However, I have held several oral discussions on this subject with the Minister for the Environment, Zakia Khattabi. I would remind you that this is a historical contamination of the soil that has been going on for decades. If the pollution had not come up almost by chance because of the work on the Oosterweel connection, the European Commission would have continued its process of setting standards without acceleration and we would not have had standards until 2022 at the earliest. As far as the capacity of the labs is concerned, I can still tell you that the BFSA has no authority to require commercial laboratories to expand their capacity. Currently, the number of Belgian laboratories carrying out analyses on pfas in food is limited to Sciensano and SGS. The ECCA laboratory has applied for accreditation from BELAC for the execution of pfas analyses. On the website of the BFSA, a list of Belgian approved laboratories is published, which is freely accessible. I have regular contact with my colleagues at the federal level and, of course, I often have contact with the Flemish level. I have already discussed the matter twice with Mrs Crevits, Flemish Minister for Agriculture, and a lot of information is also exchanged between our cabinets. Moreover, the BFSA is part of the expert group pfas set up by the mandate holder of the Flemish government, and has participated in its meetings since the meeting of 22 June 2021 at the request of the contractor. Mrs Gijbels, you asked me a question about the migration of pfas from materials that come into contact with food. A specific action was taken in 2008 and the BFSA took 90 samples of cardboard materials to analyse the migration of PFOS and pfas in the distribution sector. No pfas were found at the time. Similar samplings were subsequently no longer carried out because no standards or action limits are available and in the absence of any presumption of non-conformity. The European Recommendation 2019/794 recommends that the migration of pfas from grease- and moisture-resistant coated contact materials made of paper and cardboard, such as fast food waste, bakery packaging and microwave popcorn bags, be further investigated. Following the EFSA opinion of 2020 which brought down the toxicological values of perfluorocompounds, a research project has recently been launched, funded by the Public Health Office. Based on that project, called FLUOREX, the BFSA will evaluate the relevance of the implementation of migration analyses of pfas from contact materials. As regards pfas in animal feed, I can tell you that this is being evaluated at European level. In February the subject was discussed in a working group on contaminants in animal feed and in April in a permanent committee. In February, the European Commission instructed the European Reference Laboratory to identify analytical possibilities. The EURL submitted its report to the European Commission on Friday 18 June. In view of the situation in Belgium, the Commission delivered this immediately to the BFSA. On the basis of that report, the European Commission will examine the possibility of setting up monitoring at European level in order to obtain a more accurate picture of the state of contamination in Europe. However, the EURL report shows that out of the 25 laboratories that responded to the survey, only 9 have a validated method. This monitoring will be a first step towards establishing European standards. In addition, an important source of exposure for animals is the soil that takes up scabs when feeding outdoors. The exact weight of the feed exposure shall be determined in proportion to this. The Authority will have to take all these elements into account in order to deliver an opinion which will reflect the needs and possibilities for monitoring pfas in feed. Another important question concerns compensation for damage. Even for companies that can market compliant products, consumer confidence may be lost. There are also the additional costs to be incurred for auto-checking. I fully understand the concerns of the operators involved. However, since these are economic aid measures linked to the losses suffered, I would refer you to the competent Flemish minister for your question on compensation for those concerned. In this context one always refers to the 'polluter pays' principle. It is not the government, and certainly not the BFSA, which is responsible for the pollution. So much for the answers to the many questions that have been asked about this dossier. As at last Thursday's plenary session, I would like to stress that, contrary to some of the comments I have read and heard, the BFSA has acted proactively. The BFSA has been particularly active in implementing the recent recommendations of the Scientific Committee. It did this by starting the extra monitoring in the zone, which was in line with the first recommendation and aimed at the 36 companies located within a radius of 15 kilometers to start the site in Zwijndrecht, and by starting the background monitoring, which was in line with the second recommendation. As regards the third recommendation, the BFSA awaits the regional inventory of other areas that may be subject to control. It is not his responsibility, however, to set the standards themselves. As I said before, the police officer is not asked to write traffic regulations. This issue must be monitored with care and vigilance. I am at your disposal for further questions. Technical questions may be put in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic547x.u10	Minister, I am still very hungry on two points. This is mainly about the communication that the BFSA has made in this dossier in recent weeks, both with regard to the citizens who are concerned about their food and with the farmers themselves. I understand that the European process to transpose that new opinion of the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) requires time. I appreciate that you have contacted Europe to speed that up, but even the accelerated process is still too slow, especially in comparison to what we have been able to achieve in the last few months around covid and how quickly we have been able to switch there. I cannot accept that we have to wait here any longer. People are worried, and we need to respond to that. I'm pleased with the metaphor you made yourself about the police officer and the traffic regulations. We can actually go through that metaphor. A flash pole was installed that will ensure that no violations occur. If someone lives on a residential property where only 30 kilometers per hour can be driven, the person is not reassured when the flash pole is set to 150 kilometers per hour. That's what's happening here. Using those 2008 standards to reassure people is exactly the same as installing a flash pole that flashes at 150 kilometers per hour for residents who are worried about the speed in their residential area. This means that people can still drive at 120 kilometers per hour. We cannot call that reassuring communication! How can we claim that people are perfectly allowed to eat anything that is produced there, because everything is controlled? I'm also still hungry about the results. You mentioned one result: the highest value measured there would be 2 micrograms per kilo in one egg. If I compare this with the EFSA opinion, this means that three such eggs can be eaten per week. After that, the norm is exceeded, and then nothing has been received through fish, meat, vegetables or fruit. I'm worried about that. I understand that you cannot immediately translate that EFSA opinion, because of our analytical capacity and the economic impact. But I think it is negligent to measure 2 micrograms per kilo in an egg and not say that pregnant women and vulnerable groups should pay attention. I cannot accept that we have learned nothing from the BFSA's audit on communication. I cannot accept it when the BFSA states that the measurement was in order and that you can keep eating anything. I had hoped to be more reassured in that today, but that is not the case. I'll keep knocking on that nail. The BFSA must be able to say that it is safe and people can eat it. I also remain hungry in relation to carrying out new tests on farmers. Normally they have to pay for it themselves, but of course they won't. In the past, new controls have already been carried out which have been on another account; in the general interest, this should be possible. "The polluter pays," you say. I hope that legislation will indeed be put in place to ensure that the polluter pays for these costs. I understand that the compensation for farmers is being looked at in Flanders. I hope you will join us on this, along with Minister Crevits. About the Netherlands, I remain on two counts of hunger. Firstly, the standards are being transposed more quickly there. They are not yet being applied, but a lot of study work has already been done that can be used at the moment. Secondly, the area of 15 kilometres around Zwijndrecht takes us across the Dutch border. I have not heard an answer to my question: is there any cooperation with the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic547x.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, on this issue, I should like to inform you that the NVWA (the AFSCA of the Netherlands) has done exactly the same thing as Belgium. She questioned Europe to set standards. This confirms to me that the initiatives we have taken are in the right direction. We are, indeed, the first to do so, and the Netherlands is doing exactly the same thing as we are. This is a new piece of information that dates back to yesterday. We must bear in mind that Europe is telling us that a standard will be set at the end of this year. If a country such as Belgium, given its current situation and the state of information available to it, were to create standards itself, the procedure would take at least one year. We would achieve standards that go beyond what Europe promises. That would be counterproductive. I just wanted to inform you about the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic547x.u12	Thank you for the clarification, Minister. One final point. What are we going to do in anticipation of standards? What about the analysis capacity? You give figures on this, but are we starting to prepare for these stricter standards? If these standards are finally there, then we do not have the excuse that our labs can't handle it. Do we also see what this means to our companies? I understand that it is difficult to go faster with our country if the neighbouring countries do not yet go with us. If we are there in the end, what does that mean for our companies? How are we gonna handle this communication? Suppose these standards are very difficult to achieve, will we continue to communicate well, especially with the target groups? This is a hormone-distorting substance. We cannot allow the pregnant women and vulnerable groups to be sufficiently informed about this. Minister, there are many interesting recommendations in the audits of the BFSA. I suggest you sit down again about communication, because this really needs to be better.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic547x.u13	Thank you, Minister. I will briefly resume the few points of attention that remain after your long answer. You bring a lot of elements and it's really interesting for everyone to understand the mechanisms and limitations of the AFSCA. We knew them. It is interesting to see what has already been undertaken by the AFSCA and by yourself, to be up-to-date in this file. Nevertheless, this raises a lot of questions, a little outside the AFSCA area. But you should be very attentive to these issues, as minister of government. First of all, as my colleague Barbara Creemers has just said, we really have a problem with these standards and I can only support what has just been said. It is very complicated to have a communication towards a population that is particularly vulnerable and in a critical health situation, the content of which is "Everything is well", based on standards which are well known that they are no longer up to date. We hear you don't have a magic wand to update these standards at once. In the meantime, the issue of communication is important. It is difficult to communicate with standards that are more than ten years old and that are known to be tens of times too low compared to today's standards for the health of citizens. This is all the more embarrassing as this problem of PFAS and PFOS has been known since the 1990s. Since then, we know that these are really poisons for our health. I remain very concerned about communicating reassuringly to a population on the basis of standards that are known to be insufficient. It's complicated. Thank you for putting pressure on the European level to make this happen faster. I believe that Belgium also has a role to play as a Member State. It will have to ensure that standards are as stringent as possible at European level. Belgium must be very audible on this level. I think the figures you gave are very interesting. It is shown very well that the region around 3M society is particularly agricultural. This is worrying in relation to the distribution of food products which are distributed throughout Belgium and abroad as well. This necessarily has an impact on our farmers, who must be kept informed and involved in these discussions. Finally, the difficulties and limitations of the AFSCA's work in applying standards at the European and Belgian levels were discussed. But it would be interesting to hear from you about the lessons learned from this case. Indeed, this is not the first time that we have faced health crises that affect our food security. I feel like every time you come back with the same excuses (difficulty, unupdated standards, etc.).). 3M represents a historical pollution. We know very well what 3M produced. I do not understand that we are now discovering the extent of pollution. What are the lessons learned for better proactive monitoring of other industrial areas where it is well known that there is currently active pollution? For standards that may not yet exist, which we will discover in five years' time, how can we be more proactive in protecting our food security and the health of our citizens from this element?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic547x.u14	Mr President, I can immediately answer the question just put. Madam, you must know that this matter is not within my competence as Minister of Agriculture. It is up to the Regions to carry out this monitoring, requested by the Scientific Committee. We need to know that there are two types of monitoring. The monitoring of the sampling, which is my responsibility, has been carried out. Here we are talking about targeted monitoring and background monitoring – I am also answering a question from Mrs Creemers – which allows us to have a basis and indicators for possibly setting standards for action at a later stage, if Europe drags, etc. We are working on these issues. The labs are also getting ready. So we are not inactive. However, one of the elements requested in this scientific report is whether other places, in this case in Flanders, are involved. This obviously concerns not only Flanders, but also Wallonia and Brussels. I wrote to the Region concerned to let me know its state of affairs, but I did not get an answer. I repeat that this is a regional competence. This is not my responsibility. So I can't intervene. This debate should take place at the regional level. Having said that, I agree with you that it is not just the PFOS. Many other products are also dangerous. I will also answer questions about other substances later on. I repeat once again that this is a typical regional subject on which I have no control.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic547x.u15	Mr President, may I speak?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic547x.u16	Of course, Madame de Laveleye, as you know, you have the last word.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic547x.u17	Yes, Mr President, but many colleagues are waiting for their turn to speak as well. Minister, thank you for the responsiveness to the new issues. We can see you're in the file. That's a very good thing. Questions will be asked earlier by Mrs Khattabi about the ICD, which is intended to bring together regional and federal ministers around the table. As a Minister of Agriculture, your skills may be limited, but as a federal minister, you have skills such as product standards. I believe that the AFSCA experience as well as yours and your mastery of the file should be an inspiration for federal thinking on environmental health and food-related health issues. I am sure you have an added value in this debate at your level.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic547x.u18	Madame de Laveleye, I agree with you. Think that's what I said to my colleague Zakia Katthabi! She convened – and this was a very good initiative – a Health-Environment ICD but not Agriculture. So I wasn't invited to this ICD. Between us, I was able to find out what happened and a Flemish Minister of the Environment, for example, asked why federal agriculture was not present. We have therefore agreed with Mrs Katthabi that, in the future, the regional agriculture ministers and I will also be convened, because one of the aspects of the problem is also agricultural. Katthabi had a long-term vision. She did not have a short-term vision of managing Zwijndrecht's case. It's not his competence. We therefore agreed and agreed that in the future we will all work together.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic547x.u19	We will therefore support your suggestion in a few minutes in the Climate Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic547x.u20	Mr Minister, people are indeed concerned. Farmers are concerned, especially in the region of Zwijndrecht. People who have a vegetable garden or laying hens near Zwijndrecht have also been delivered. I therefore hope that the BFSA will continue to follow up the dossier closely, together with the Flemish Minister. I also agree that communication is very important in this regard. It's about food safety, it's about our health. I don't have to convince anyone that we shouldn't take any chances. If the BFSA gives certain advice, then I also assume that they are scientifically substantiated and that there should be no doubt that their advice in this area is correct. People must be assured that they can and may consume the vegetables from their own vegetable garden or the eggs of their own chickens in a safe way.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic547x.u21	Minister, your answer shockes me, to be honest. You reply that the highest level of PFOS in eggs is 2 micrograms per kilogram. However, if we apply the new and most recent European standards, i.e. a maximum of 0.63 nanograms per kilogram of body weight per day instead of the old standard of 150 nanograms, the action limit for eggs is 0.42 micrograms per kilogram. This means that there are four times more PFOS in the eggs than allowed by current European food standards. Minister, I demand that you act. You need to release all the readings now. You must force the BFSA to adjust its action limits in line with the new standards of the European Food Agency EFSA. It is really unacceptable for you to hide behind a lack of official European standards. The opinion of EFSA of 2020 is clear. The standard has become 238 times stricter. It is based on the EFSA opinion of 2008 that the BFSA established its current action limits. It can therefore do so perfectly now on the basis of the opinion of 2020. It is incomprehensible that you are defending the BFSA here. I can only conclude from this that food safety is not a priority for you and that the jars must remain covered. This raises serious questions about the functioning of the BFSA. How is it that the BFSA uses outdated standards? Why does it keep doing that? Why do the BFSA and you defend the indefenable? Minister, I repeat that you must intervene now.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic547x.u22	Mr President, I am not going to react every time, but here I still have to do so because Mrs Daems confuses everything! ESA does not set standards. It produces scientific indicators. Secondly, these scientific indicators are compiled by congeners, i.e. there are four indicators that need to be aggregated. Europe, which takes account of scientific aspects but also of other aspects, translates this into standards. We can't do as Mrs Daems says, look at a scientific figure. Already, it has to be multiplied by four and only after that, it is transformed into a standard through another rather technical process carried out by Europe. Mrs. Daems, you compare apples and pears. I can't let go of what you just said. Perhaps we can have specialists, because I'm not one, organize another meeting where we would go to the bottom of things to see how we turn scientific values into standards, but we can't do as Mrs Daems says today, look at 0.4 and say it's four times higher. That's not true.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic547x.u23	Thank you for your comprehensive reply, Minister. I'm a little confused about the action limits. You state that the BFSA is not competent to determine the action limits, but the FPS Public Health does. You have said that, but in 2008 the BFSA did so on the basis of an opinion from the Scientific Committee. You yourself replied to a question in plenary on 17 June. So my question remains who is ultimately responsible for setting the action limits, the Public Health Office or the BFSA? I have the impression that the hot potato is being pushed through. It remains unclear to me. Regardless of who is competent, the question remains as to why action standards have not been updated, knowing that they already date back to 2008 and that there are new scientific insights. There is even a new European opinion on this since last year. Why haven't they been updated? Communication also remains a pain. Why was there so reassuring communication, even though they knew that standards were being applied in 2008 and even though they knew that there were new scientific insights? I'm disappointed and concerned about the communication. People are reassured on the basis of outdated standards. Communication for affected citizens and farmers had to be much clearer and more restrained. It had been said much better that the 2008 action standards were used, but that there are new scientific insights and that additional monitoring would be carried out. On the contrary, however, we have simply tried to reassure people. Maybe that wasn't correct. Communication is very essential in crisis policy, especially when it comes to public health and our health. It is always better to be hurt by the truth than comforted by a lie. The communication from the BFSA remains an enormous pain. You yourself have taken an initiative to contact the European Commission. I'm happy about that. You made a quick bet on that. It is also good that there is an accelerated procedure at European level, but there is still a bit of noise on the line when it comes to the timing in which we can expect the new European standards. You say that, after the 1 July consultation, it was confirmed that the new standards will be adopted by the end of 2021, but last week, Minister Vandenbroucke, who was perhaps also present at that consultation, confirmed that they would only come in mid 2022. So there seems to be some confusion between the two ministers. In any case, I am pleased that new European standards will be introduced, but I also share some of my colleagues' concern that we should therefore be fully prepared for this. I hope that the new standards will be there soon, but also that we will take the whole preparation into action. That means our labs will probably have to be able to measure more accurately. There is a need to make additional efforts to this end. Our farmers are also likely to have to adapt to the new European standards. I hope that everything will be prepared and that we will not be faced with new European standards when people are not ready on the ground. That is something we must try to avoid. Finally, as far as the damage is concerned, I have already asked several questions about this. You have said that consumer confidence may be lost and that even companies that have not been affected may suffer damage. There are also additional costs for autochecking. It is important that farmers also have an idea of what support and what financial compensation they can get. You're referring to the regional minister. You are raising the polluter pays principle. I can agree with that, but that is no use to the farmers affected. They're being sent from the locker to the wall. They just want clarity. Their bills have to be paid. They hope that they will be able to get support for this. Regular consultations have been held with the various ministers concerned. I therefore hope that you will quickly come to a solution and a clear communication on support for farmers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic547x.u24	Minister, I too would like to thank you for your comprehensive and very detailed answer. I am glad, like a number of colleagues, that you yourself have taken the initiative to contact Europe with the demand to speed up the setting of standards. The sampling you are talking about does indeed seem to me to be extensive and thorough. However, depending on the results, we believe that it is necessary to consider whether additional measures should be taken. We count on the BFSA to be even more proactive and to communicate clearly and transparently in the future. That's gonna keep me in my stomach. After all, people think that vague communication can put things away. I'd really like to warn you about that. We need to get rid of that. So we're counting on the BFSA to be even more proactive. As far as we're concerned, people need to be sure of the food they eat and that they present to their children. That's what I said. From Vooruit we will continue to ensure that this happens.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic547x.u25	Minister, with unaltered standards, the sacrosanct precautionary principle is ignored. Depending on the levels of danger found, safety is not necessarily ensured and this is not reassuring to the public, with an intriguing communication that could have been more nuanced when it comes to public health. With regard to the Interministerial Conference in the presence of Ms. Khattabi, she seemed interesting. It is a good idea to involve agriculture in thinking, especially when it comes to the health of our fellow citizens. Finally, does the AFSCA have the competence to analyze the problem of food packaging that may contain PFAS and PFOS? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic547x.u26	Thank you, Minister. I have been a little naughty by asking for the Inter-Ministerial Conference and your input. It had indeed come to my attention that your colleague, Minister Khattabi, had not invited you to that conference. I was personally quite shocked by that and suppose you couldn't laugh at that either. I therefore hope that the lines of communication are good, because it is very important that such important matters are properly discussed within the government. As far as communication is concerned, I agree with what colleagues have said about this. It is very important that communication in crisis situations is fair and complete. I didn't get an immediate response on the lab's capacity. I propose that I submit an additional written question on this, because it remains unclear to me whether our labs can handle the limit of quantification. After all, it is important that we always stay one step ahead, especially if scientific data indicates a lower limit. In the interests of public health, we really need to be prepared to detect this. On the contrary, a developed country like ours would be unworthy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic547x.u27	Mr President, Minister, it is my responsibility that an AFSCA official has been permanently attached to Beijing in order to promote, in particular, the quality of the Belgian pig sector. Minister, what are the competencies of the AFSCA that justify the sending of an official responsible for developing Belgian agricultural outlets abroad? Does AFSCA intend to send other representatives to encourage the consumption of Belgian agricultural products abroad? Why is it only for the pig sector that it is involved in promoting the quality of our agriculture?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic547x.u28	Minister, the BFSA recently appointed a permanent representative to China with the aim of promoting the export of Belgian pork to China.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic547x.u29	One of the important tasks of the permanent representative of the BFSA in China is to get Belgian pork exports to China back on track. What interests does that representative defend? Does he operate on behalf of the states? What are the expectations? What objectives were set in advance? What is the current status of the representative's mandate?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic547x.u30	Colleagues, as regards the AFSCA attaché in Beijing and its role, the AFSCA attaché is integrated into the Belgian Embassy in Beijing and monitors Belgian sanitary and phytosanitary files for market opening and possible border problems, i.e. within the framework of the AFSCA's only federal powers. She works closely with her colleagues at AFSCA in Belgium and supports the operation of the Embassy through her expertise. It works in synergy with the Belgian customs officer and regional export promotion bodies. The AFSCA attaché also works in collaboration with the European Commission's representative and the attachés of the other Member States on the spot. It ensures good contacts with the Chinese authorities and also facilitates the implementation of the cooperation agreements between AFSCA and the Chinese authorities. For example, it covers not only the pigmeat file but also all the dossiers for the removal of sanitary and phytosanitary barriers for the export of plant and animal agri-food products to China. It thus fulfils the sanitary and phytosanitary part of the role of agricultural attaché deployed by many countries in order to ultimately strengthen the overall capacity to support our exports to that country. The AFSCA attaché has at least weekly consultations with the Director of International Relations, to whom she reports directly. Both are accountable to the Director General of the Control Policy DG of AFSCA, who is also the Head of Veterinary Service of Belgium and to the Director General of the Agency. I am also informed through this channel and can communicate my priorities. She also has daily meetings with her colleagues at the embassy. It is under the authority of the Head of Post. Because of the pandemic, she could not leave for China until a few weeks ago, a year after her appointment. This period provided an opportunity to learn more about AFSCA, the various sectors and authorities and the technical dossiers so that it could start its work in China optimally with good knowledge and close contacts at home. She arrived in Beijing on 28 March after a mandatory quarantine of three weeks. With regard to pigmeat exports, the Belgian companies exported 77.537 tonnes of pigmeat outside the European Union in 2020, which is a halving compared to 2018. Exports to China have been reduced to zero due to the AVP embargo. If you would like more information, I refer you to the Regions, under whose jurisdiction. The possibility or option to send attachés of the BFSA to other countries, I will look together with the BFSA. In this respect, account will have to be taken of the priority markets for our exports and their potential.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic547x.u31	Minister, thank you for your answer. I hear the sanitary and phytosanitary skills of this AFSCA official relocated to China. That's the minimum we can ask him! Nevertheless, I remain concerned about the relocation of a full-time person. I have the feeling that AFSCA is emerging from its role. In this case, the AFSCA seems to me to behave as an intercommunal economic development (the development and export of our beef). Mr Minister, I believe that this function must be marked. It is a precedent that it is a matter of not seeing again. AFSCA has a role in health measures and the health of citizens. It is not to promote trade in pigmeat or other agricultural products.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic547x.u32	Mr President, I have a different view on this than Mrs Thibaut. A representative abroad who is responsible for the safety of the food we produce is certainly not an unnecessary luxury when there are threats to that trade. These threats were mainly caused by the French-speaking regions, because swine fever had nothing to do with the production of pigs in Flanders. Minister, it is a good thing that you are considering the option of sending representatives to other countries as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic547x.u33	Minister, China is an important market for our pig sector, so it is important that we pay a great deal of attention to this. It is also good that a permanent representative is appointed to defend these interests. It's about a woman being delegated, so I should have just spoken about 'they'. In view of the crisis experienced by the pig sector in the past period, including swine fever, it is a very important initiative, and I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic547x.u34	Mrs. De Block is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic547x.u35	The objectives of limiting the use of antibiotics in animals, as set out in the 2016-2020 antibiotic agreement, have only partially been achieved. This is reported by the AMCRA, the knowledge centre for antibiotic use and resistance in animals.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic547x.u36	Mrs Gijbels, Mr De Caluwé, one of the factors to which the increase in the use of antibiotics in poultry farming can be attributed is the destruction by the Council of State of Chapter VI, Section 1 of the Royal Decree of 21 July 2016, which imposes restrictions on the use of critical antibiotics, including the fluoroquinolines. That chapter was re-inserted into the KB and entered into force on 9 December 2020, which is expected to result in a further decrease in 2021. Another possible reason is the less preventive use of antibiotics in day-old chicks. As a result, more tomes at a later age need antibiotics. To prevent the high use of antibiotics in the poultry sector, the sector itself has developed a ten-step plan. The Covenant 2021-2024 was signed at the beginning of 2021 and is mainly a commitment of the government and sectors to continue cooperation in the fight against antimicrobial resistance. That battle is based on co-regulation. New reduction targets to be met by 2024 have been set in the covenant, including maximum use for all antibiotics and a maximum of 1 % alarm users. This concerns companies with very high levels of antibiotic use. A reduction path has also been established by sector and/or category, on which sectors can base themselves to assess whether they are on the right path to achieve their own objectives. The stagnation in the decline in antibiotic use in the animal sector in 2020 does not affect those targets for the time being. The commitments of the government included the operational objectives of the animal pillar of the National One Health Action Plan against antimicrobial resistance in the Convention 2021-2024. Important new elements have already been included and are awaiting validation for development or implementation. These include, for example, the classification of companies based on their antibiotic use, the implementation of specific measures in companies based on a sanitary business plan and a plan of action and measures for companies located in the alert zone. That national plan was submitted for public consultation until 10 July 2021.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic547x.u37	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I believe that transparency will also be the key to making progress here. In doing so, the publication of the data on antibiotic use will indeed give a push in the right direction. I think we need to speed this up considerably, if we want to match the neighbouring countries, and that must be our intention. The bacterial resistance, the risk of excessive antibiotic use, can have consequences in many areas of human health care. I think we should monitor that carefully and play very briefly on the ball.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic547x.u38	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I agree that the use of antibiotics in animals should be reduced. So it's a good thing a covenant has been made. I would ask you to monitor the use of antibiotics very closely so that we can reduce this together with the sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic547x.u39	Chewing gum, peppermint, toothpaste, pastry glaze and even pumpkin seeds get a nice, white shine. Titanium dioxide has been used as an additive for more than fifty years, recognized under the number E171, to make food look more delicious. This substance came into the topicality as a result of the substances supplied by the government mouth masks. A month ago, the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) decided that the substance can no longer be considered as a safe food additive. According to the European Food Watchdog "can't be excluded that there is an effect on our genetic material." For the time being, however, no binding measure has been taken. Will the Minister take steps to ban titanium dioxide as a food additive, as in France, pending a European ban? What steps is he considering? Does the Minister have a view on the products containing titanium dioxide and on the producers using titanium dioxide?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic547x.u40	Test-Achats requires manufacturers and distributors of products that still contain titanium dioxide to remove them from the list of ingredients without delay, given the lack of a technological need that would justify the use of this additive and the EFSA opinion confirming a health risk. The European Commission has proposed to remove this additive from the list of authorised food additives and proposes to phase out titanium dioxide.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic547x.u41	Consumer Organisation Test Purchase wants supermarkets to ward off products containing the chemical titanium dioxide or E171.The dye is contained in different food products and is mainly used to make things whiter or shine beautifully. According to experts titanium dioxide can be harmful to our health and the substance is actually unnecessary in the food products," says Test Purchase.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic547x.u42	Mr President, Mrs Sneppe, Mrs Dierick, Mr De Caluwé, the Public Health Office has taken a position on behalf of Belgium at the special meeting of the competent authorities of the Member States, convened by the European Commission on 18 May 2021. Belgium, like other Member States, supported the Commission's proposal to ban titanium dioxide, including mother-of-pearl pigments based on E171 and E555. The Public Health Office has called for the European ban measures to be taken as soon as possible, with the shortest possible transitional period and in the same way for all food products concerned. Given the start of the European regulatory process within a rather short time frame, I believe that this is the fastest way to introduce an effective EU-wide ban - we are talking about September 2021. The procedure for a national ban is no shorter. It would rather delay the European process and could only apply to food produced in Belgium. Pending the final European decision, the FPS Public Health recommends that all operators start already to stop using E171 in the manufacture of food and look for legally permitted alternatives. This opinion was given by the FPS Public Health on 11 May to all interested parties who are members of the Advisory Council on Nutrition Policy and was published on the website of the FPS Public Health on 12 May. Since 2018, the use of E171 has decreased significantly, which is probably partly due to measures taken in France. This is demonstrated by data from the Sciensano database with food ingredients lists on the Belgian market. E171 has a simple function to colour food white and its use is less essential. Its replacement is sometimes easier than for other technological additive functions. For example, E171 is used in food supplements, chewing gum and in decorations for cakes and desserts. Some of them are seasonal products that do not remain on the market for long. These are manufacturers' brands and distribution brands. I cannot give you any details of the latest changes that have recently taken place on the Belgian market, but I can confirm that titanium dioxide will disappear very soon in food products placed on the market. I welcome this good news that will have a positive impact on the health of all consumers at European level.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic547x.u43	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is indeed good news that measures will be taken and that the deadline is September 2021. However, I find it strange that you say that you cannot do without the EU ban, whereas France can. I am pleased, together with you, that measures are being taken, but I am sorry that certain Member States seem to be able to take action without the EU, and that Belgium is lagging behind.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic547x.u44	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive reply. You do bring good news. I understand from your reply that a national ban will not be faster than a European ban. I think we'll be better off with the European approach by the end of this year. I am pleased that soon there will be no more products with additives on the market.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic547x.u45	Thank you, Minister, for your answer to the questions. I repeat, we do not take any risks with food safety. It is therefore a good thing that the problem is addressed and that there is no doubt about it, and that work will be done to remove it from the market. I understand that this is best done at European level. It is also a good thing that Europe is reacting so quickly. It may not be possible to do so much faster than September 2021.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic547x.u46	On 9 June, the press reports that one of your collaborators is a former (but recent) lobbyist of Phytofar, a company that defends the interests of the pesticide sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic547x.u47	On 9 June, Le Soir reported that the recent ex-lobbyist of Phytophar Pierrick Walravens, as an advisor, works in your cabinet. It is strange that someone who lobbied for pesticides in a previous career and is even registered in the Chamber's lobby register, recently updated on 7 June 2021, is now advising you on pesticide reduction policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic547x.u48	I have read your questions carefully, but not without some surprise. I can confirm that Mr Walravens was indeed recruited as an expert in my cabinet in January 2021. I also confirm that he worked for Phytophar shortly, one year, between July 2019 and August 2020. It appears as such in the Chamber's lobby register. I would like to point out that Mr Walravens had not worked for Phytophar for several months at the time of his recruitment. Therefore, its presence in the June 2021 lobby register is not justified. However, I am not responsible for updating the list. Mr Walravens is an industrial engineer in agronomy, graduated from the Haute Ecole Charlemagne HECh of Huy. It strengthens my agricultural cell in general and in particular in the field of animal and plant health. His main areas of interest are animal health and livestock farming, fields in which he has worked, apart from his year at Phytophar, most of his career. My agricultural cell consists of several profiles that are necessary in terms of necessary scientific knowledge for the handling of the dossiers. So I can count on the knowledge of people from the BFSA, a veterinarian, a beekeeper, a bio-engineer and an agricultural engineer. As for your questions, I regret your trial of intent. I do not admit that, without proof, and even without any argument, you were trying to discredit one of my collaborators. I do not accept that you question the integrity of a man on the pretext that he has worked in an economic sector whose activities you disapprove of for ideological reasons of your own. I do not admit that without shame, you assume that my collaborator would be dishonest and that, as a matter of principle, he would betray the objectives of the government's agreement to the benefit of one of his former employers. Do you think that only the people who defend your cause are loyal and honest people? Do you think my collaborator is unable to make the difference? Following your logic, a lawyer who defends a position for a client in one case would be unable to defend a different position for another client in another case. On the pretext that a scientist has ever worked for a sector, should we believe that he would lose all objectivity and reasoning? That it would be unworthy to advise a public authority in its field of expertise? That he would be unable to defend the public interest after defending particular interests? What world do you live in? In real life, professional conversions are frequent. There are many cases where lawyers have become magistrates. There are many cases where self-employed persons are recruited into firms. There are many cases, and your party knows better than anyone, where lobbyists – wind energy, for example – are appointed to regulatory bodies. Far from disqualifying it, the experience gained in this sector is a wealth that, in the service of government, benefits the community. Would it be necessary, in order to satisfy you and avoid any inappropriate suspicion, for me to hire exclusively virgins from any professional background, without any knowledge or experience in these subjects? I also regret your selective indignation. Engaging a person whose name is included in the Chamber lobby register is a practice that exists in other cabinets. This is particularly the case for a minister from your own political group. I hope you ask him a similar question. Finally, despite the inelegative or even insulting nature of your question, I confirm that it is my intention to respect the government agreement. Indeed, I intend to rely on science to guide my action, and certainly not on lobbyists, whether they are green, like PAN Europe, or others. On the other hand, I do not intend to work on the basis of ideological biases, shortcuts, trials of intent and convictions a priori; and I invite you to try to do the same.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic547x.u49	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your answer. Having said that, I have the feeling that you're making me a bad trial of intent. You have listed a whole series of questions. My answer is no to each of them. Of course, we do not question your collaborator's professional skills or your ability to enforce the government agreement. Nevertheless, your answer asks me as long as you say that there is a question of ideology. Indeed, there is no question of ideology here, as it is part of a European strategy aimed at reducing chemical pesticides by 50% by 2030. There is a collapse of biodiversity and ecosystems in general. This collapse is not ideological. It is scientifically proven. It is therefore relatively legitimate to question the fact that one of your relatives has publicly criticized the European strategy. This is not, therefore, a trial of intent. It is fair to note that, among your close collaborators, there is a person who has already expressed himself publicly in the context, not of his current duties, but of other functions against the European strategy. The points raised are therefore, in a way, in disagreement with the majority agreement. We're not trying intent. We're just worried. We know that the urgency in terms of ecosystem collapse must be taken very seriously. Unfortunately, we also know – I am not talking about your collaborator here – that the lobbies exercised by Phytofar and others are very, very strong during the European and even federal negotiations to find the best possible way to protect our ecosystems and our health. We all need to be vigilant when it comes to who we listen to. I'm not asking you to consider any lobbyist. You are, moreover, right to surround yourself with people who benefit from professional expertise. But let us still be careful that, in the face of urgency, European strategies and the government agreement, we listen to the right people in order to achieve the best possible result. I repeat that I was a little surprised by your tone in your reply because it was not in this light that I wanted to question you today. I just wanted a clarification; I got it. I now call you to caution.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic547x.u50	Minister, if I were Mr Walravens, I would be glad to be able to work for a minister like you, because you defended him and that is what you should do. Our job is to control the government. So I think it's our damn duty to ask questions about this, just as it would be our damn duty to ask questions if Minister Vandenbroucke had someone who worked for the tobacco industry in the context of Generation Smoke-free. That would surprise us all, too. Just as you play your part and do your job and stand behind Mr Walravens, it is our duty to ask if you are well informed. You explained his resume and that will be fine, but like Mr de Laveleye I am a little surprised at the tone you use by asking what world we live in. We live in a world where people are concerned about their health and it is our role to proclaim that voice in Parliament. We will therefore continue to ask these questions, politely and constructively, as we always do.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic547x.u51	On 2 June, the French National Agency for Health and Environmental Safety (ANSES) issued a report entitled "Effectiveness of the treatments available to combat aphids and beet". This report confirms that there are 22 less toxic alternatives than bee killer insecticides to control beet yellowish aphids. Of these alternatives, four are practicable in the short term, two without any use of synthetic products. In the medium term, 18 are identified. The report recognises the risks associated with synthetic alternatives and to a lesser extent the risks associated with natural plant protection products. The crop alternatives are presented as combining good efficiency and good durability.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic547x.u52	In 2018, the use of neonicotinoids, a pesticide based on a chemical related to nicotine, was banned in most EU countries. Despite the harmful effects, including on the bee population, your predecessor Ducarme announced that he would allow an exception for the beet sector. However, in his view, it would be the last time such an exception would be granted in 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic547x.u53	Dear colleagues, AFSCA is not concerned with the evaluation of alternatives to plant products. The evaluation of plant products is a competence of the Public Health FPS while the agricultural choice between these products and their alternatives falls within the competence of the Regions. As a reminder and to avoid language abuse, neonicotinoids are a family of several active substances, including clothianidine, limidaclopride and thiamethoxame. I have read the ANSES report carefully. It indicates 22 alternatives to the use of neonicotinoids. It is a theoretical document based on a bibliographical search. A total of 3,878 bibliographical references were consulted to support the analysis of the effectiveness of the eight families of alternative methods for the control of beet aphids. Of these, only 7% were directly related to beet cultivation. Most alternative solutions advance correct efficiencies but, most of the time, probably insufficient in use alone to reduce damage levels below the economic acceptability threshold. All these pathways, including synthetic plant protection products presented as alternatives with the best field efficiency, must be tested. In addition, ANSES experts chose to exclude from the scope of expertise the assessment of the impact of alternatives for both human health and the environment, in particular with regard to pollinating insects. It will therefore be essential to test combinations of several of these control methods in an integrated management approach that achieves sufficient and sustainable efficiency. It is not unnecessary to recall that the objective is the protection of the plant against the jaundice virus. It is therefore a question of understanding the struggle on the vector aspect but also resistance of the plant. The development of improved sugar beet varieties for jaundice virus resistance seems to be a very promising option as many resistance genes have been identified. This method would also have the advantage of efficiency and ease of implementation without the negative impact on the environment. New genomic techniques could be very important here to benefit from this solution in the short term. It is important to continue to actively seek alternatives. Currently, if beet growers cannot use seeds treated with neonicotinoids, they will have to perform several foliar treatments with other insecticides to protect plants from pests while noting that some of them are less effective. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that support for scientific research in order to bring out these alternatives, which are more respectful of our biodiversity, is the responsibility of the Regions. We must indeed look at what is happening in our neighbours and have an overview at European level. We must not forget that the situation is unique for each country regarding the availability of alternatives. This implies that derogations must be granted at national level. Belgium is not the only country to issue derogations. I agree, however, that alternatives will have to be found quickly. My regional colleagues confirm that I am working on this. In 2020, large populations of yellowish virus vector aphids invaded untreated beet crops. This has led to the new application for the derogation of neonicotinoid products for the coating of beet seed, in the absence of other means of control which are sufficiently effective for this sector. This also applies to 16 other Member States, and it even forces France to reverse the procedure by way of a derogation which, by a decree of 5 February 2021, authorises the use of sugar beet seed treated with imidacloprid or thiamethoxame for a period of 120 days. For 2021 in Belgium, only the imidaclopride substance was selected by the Accreditation Committee to satisfy this emergency situation in the field of sugar beets, lettuce, endives, rosso radicchios and sugar loaves. This decision is in line with that of my predecessor. It will no longer repeat the derogations for clothiamidine and thiamethoxame. These are therefore two different substances than those which have been granted a derogation. As with each derogation, a comprehensive assessment of the effects on human health and the environment was carried out. It turns out that the derogation for imidaclopride meets all conditions and standards, such as a normal authorisation. This includes exposure via residues in food and food. For the time being, according to my information, a request for an exemption for imidaclopride has been submitted for next year to the Public Health FPS Advisory Committee. She's in the process of being evaluated.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic547x.u54	Minister, thank you for your answer. Environmentalists have been working on the issue of neonicotinoids for years now. We come back very regularly with this file. When I say "years", it proves the difficulty and slowness that we are facing at all levels of power - you are right to stress this - to find concrete alternatives to these pesticides called "bee killers". The report shows that alternatives already exist, four of which are applicable in the short term and eighteen in the medium term. If this were still necessary, it shows us - we have been convinced for years - that alternatives exist. As you mentioned your predecessor, I would like to point out that we were a little surprised to hear Mr. Ducarme react recently in the Dutch-speaking press. He stressed the fact that, when he had granted derogations, he did have in mind that the 2020 one would be the last and that for him it was obvious that neonicotinoids had to be permanently removed after the latter derogation. For this reason, he questions your support for the agricultural sector. I do not know if it is very elegant, but it shows that there is a real concern about these neonicotinoids - including your colleagues and predecessors - which must put pressure on your colleague, the Minister of Agriculture, in particular on the Walloon side. We need to find solutions. These solutions exist and are already documented at the scientific level. In our view, continuing to give derogations is no longer justified at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic547x.u55	Of course, Minister, this is a delicate balance. On the one hand there are entrepreneurs and producers, on the other hand there are the environment and food safety. However, I agree with my colleague that extending the authorisation is not an incentive to look for alternatives. I understand that this is primarily a matter for the regions, but a ban could speed up processes. In the field of pesticides, we must always rely on objective and independent scientific information. I hope that you agree and that you will always go for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic547x.u56	One of the additional powers of the BFSA is to investigate fraudulent trade in live animals. Here we are thinking mainly of the illegal puppy trade, but also the illegal horse trade is becoming more and more visible. For example, horse passports are being forged so that horses that were already excluded before slaughter end up in the slaughterhouse.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic547x.u57	Mr President, I would prefer to respond orally if you want an immediate answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic547x.u58	Mrs Dierick, did I understand correctly that you had tabled a written question and that you have now tabled an oral question on the same subject?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic547x.u59	Mr President, that is correct. My questions were already submitted in January 2021 as written questions, but since I did not receive an answer to them, I have now tabled them as an oral question. I ask for a lot of figures; in order to make it easy, the Minister does not have to read all these figures, they can simply be included in the report. I don't care, as long as I get the answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic547x.u60	Annexes and tables of figures shall not be included in the report. The Minister can get them to you. Minister, if you have tables with figures, they will not be included in the record, but I would ask you to forward them to Mrs Dierick.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic547x.u61	Mrs Dierick, the statistics you are asking me about the fraudulent trade in puppies and horses are not yet available, but I will send them to you as soon as I receive them. However, I can tell you that the transposition of the EU Regulation 2016/429 on Animal Health Law into Belgian law is being closely monitored by my cabinet. The Regulation provides for a much more accurate monitoring of horses as well as for the establishment of a database containing the place where they are kept and their status vis-à-vis the food chain. The new provisions represent an important step forward in the effective fight against fraudulent trade in horses. A distinction should also be made between the implementation of the CITES Convention, drawn up by the United Nations in 1965, and other forms of fraud in the illicit trade in animals. The CITES Convention aims to protect endangered species and Belgium participates in it through the CITES cell, which falls within the competence of the Minister for the Environment. The BFSA participates in the control and cooperation with customs, the police and the inspection service of the FOD Environment. Monitoring bodies shall check at the points of entry, ports and airports and in the country to verify compliance with CITES provisions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic547x.u62	On 18 March 2021, consumer organisation Test-Achats communicated the results of its research on the nutritionality of meat substitutes. In 11 of the 37 products analysed, the fat content was far too high. And in 18 of the products examined, Test-Achats established too high a salt content. In addition, a vegetarian or vegan must pay extra attention to protein, iron and vitamin B12 levels.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic547x.u63	Mr President, Mrs Dierick, as Minister responsible for the safety of the food chain, I am very concerned about the health of consumers. However, the excess salt and fat content in vegetarian dishes and products determined by the examination of Test Purchase are covered by the nutritional quality of foods. This subject falls within the competence of the Minister for Health. The same applies to the Federal Food and Health Plan and to the Nutri-Score. The databases of the BFSA only contain detailed data on complaints since 2018. To date, the BFSA has received 14 complaints about vegetarian meals and/or products, of which 9 in 2019 and 4 in 2020. The complaints concerned vegetarian meals in restaurants and fast food chains, and vegetarian products sold in supermarkets. This is not within the competence of the BFSA. Moreover, it is not the responsibility or competence of the BFSA to adopt a differentiated approach to vegetarian and non-vegetarian products. Since operators are not registered as producers of vegetarian dishes, it is not possible to provide data on this. In addition, in order to carry out its tasks, the BFSA will launch a monitoring programme which will be updated annually. The inspection programme and the sampling programme shall be based on objective and statistically substantiated scientific parameters. During an inspection, a company's activities shall be monitored. To do so, the inspector shall use one or more checklists to assess all points to be checked in an objective manner. Over the past five years, 4,100 analyses to determine the microbiological quality of vegetarian products have been carried out at 1,39 % non-conformity. The main non-conformitys identified concerned the overrun of the total germination content. To a lesser extent, the non-conformitys concerned the establishment of listeria monocytogenes and exceedances of the microbiological criteria of E.coli and coagulase-positive staphylococci. In addition to the letters sent to the operators to warn them of an established non-conformity, the measures taken in relation to vegetarian dishes and products are included in a table that I can provide you with. Based on the microbiological results, we can therefore conclude that vegetarian products and dishes are of satisfactory quality. I'll pass on the painting.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic547x.u64	Knack published an article on illegal pesticides on 3 June 2020 following European investigative journalism in cooperation with seven European Member States. The article refers to the trafficking of illegal pesticides, the profit of usury associated with them and the particularly mild penalties that are pronounced in relation to the crime.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic547x.u65	Mrs Dierick, every year several countries join forces in the fight against illicit trafficking in pesticides through the special action Silver Axe. This year the action was due for its sixth edition and took place between February and April 2021. At European level, no less than 1,203 tonnes of illegal products were seized. As usual, the Federal Agency for the Safety of the Food Chain (FSA) also participated in the action. The agency controlled 2.048 tonnes of pesticides, 18.6 tonnes of which were seized. Pesticides or plant protection products are substances used to control harmful organisms in plants. These substances are safe for humans and the environment when used under the right conditions and conditions. In the context of the fight against trafficking in illegal plant protection products, the National Investigation Unit (NOE) of the BFSA carries out various control actions, in cooperation with the port authorities, customs services, border control posts and authorities of other Member States of the European Union. Silver Axe is one of the international actions coordinated by Europol and OLAF (European Anti-Fraud Office). During that action, investigative officers from the participating countries carry out checks at various locations, such as ports, airports, land borders and plants producing and packaging pesticides. PESTIMPORT is a permanent control of the import of active substances or plant protection products, whereby the NOE of the BFSA carries out a documentary check at Belgian and international level on imports transmitted to it by the customs authorities. The figures you ask me about this operation are set out in a table which you will be sent. I will also give it to you as an annex. The measures taken by the BFSA depend on the nature of the infringement. Where there is a risk to the environment, users or consumers, the products are destroyed by specialised companies. Other products may be released. Some of the products have still been seized. That amounts to 2.6 tons for this year's operation. In 2019 and 2020, the NOE also organised a specific action, "PPP on the Internet." In this way, the BFSA also monitors the online sale of illegal pesticides. Thanks to this combined approach with various actions, the BFSA ensures that the pesticide market is safe for farmers or other users of pesticides, for animals and plants and for final consumers. All this work is made possible by the last strengthening of the NOE, which can count on a team of 32 specialised staff in the fight against fraud. Eight of them specialise in pesticides, among others.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic547x.u66	Mr. Minister, you will then send the paintings directly to Mrs. Dierick.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic547x.u67	Thank you for your answers, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic547x.u68	Minister, this file is literally about my backyard, my neighbor's backyard and the people who live in my neighborhood. I hope I am not blamed for asking a question about this. This concerns the first so-called black point in Flanders. In the Bocholt district of Reppel there is a heavy soil contamination due to the production of arsenic by Metallurgie Hoboken. In the 1970s the production of arsenic was stopped, but the rehabilitation has been delayed for many years by legal disputes. It was not until 1999 that the factory was demolished and the contaminated site was covered with a film. Pollution of groundwater is still being identified. Several residents also received a soil attestation, with warnings about the use of groundwater and the excavated land. It is also recommended to thoroughly wash self-grown vegetables and wash hands well after contact with soil. In the area there are also several farms that do arable and/or livestock farming. It's a very rural town. Is the BFSA aware of this contamination? Can you provide a historical overview of the actions taken by the BFSA in this file? Were analyses carried out, in particular with regard to contamination of crops or animal products? If so, can you explain that? Should agricultural holdings take specific measures and should specific analyses be carried out? If so, what are they?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic547x.u69	The active monitoring of the environment and environmental pollution and the presence of contamination in household gardens is part of the powers of the Regions. It is up to them to provide a clear picture of the nature and extent of environmental contamination, both of the degree of contamination and of the geographical spread. The heavy metal contamination in the Noorderkempen has been known to the BFSA since 2003. In 2004 and 2005, the BFSA's monitoring of the presence of cadmium and lead in the food chain was increased and also focused on contaminated areas. The main focus was on the examination of bovine organs, combined with the sampling of plant products. A ban was introduced on the export and intra-Community trade of certain bovine animals and the placing on the market of kidneys of those bovine animals intended for human consumption from a number of municipalities of the Noorderkempen. Among other things, on the basis of the results of 2003-2004-2005 the BFSA decided to declare all kidneys of bovine animals over one year of age unfit for human consumption from February 2006. Following a new 2010-2012 monitoring campaign, a relaxed regime on the marketing of bovine kidney was introduced and the ban on exports and the ban on intra-Community trade was lifted through a ministerial decision. In the period from 2017 to 2020, 4,114 analyses were carried out on heavy metals CD cadmium, PB lead, AS arsenic and HG mercury in food, such as prepared products, meat, eggs, fruit and vegetables, seeds, cereals, milk, tea and coffee, but also animal feed and water. The conformity rate of these analyses is 99.3 %. At the end of 2008, the BFSA was contacted again by the OVAM. The soil restoration expert has taken a sample of fodder that were grown very close to the site and have it analyzed on arsenic. As this sample was in conformity, no additional sampling was carried out by the BFSA. The pollution situation in the environment is well known and farms must therefore take account of this situation and take the necessary measures to ensure that the products they place on the market are safe and in conformity with all standards. This is one of the basic principles laid down and applied at European level. The BFSA ensures that the operators assume this responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic547x.u70	Mr Minister, it is not quite clear to me to what extent it is specifically about this arsenic plant or rather about the zinc industry in the North Kemps. After all, these are two separate heavily contaminated sites. When I read all the reports from the past, it was not clear to me whether analyses of agricultural crops have already been carried out on these sites. This auto-checking is important and I can imagine that farmers have been informed about it, but I find very little data on this. I am also very surprised by the fact that this soil pollution had only been known since 2003, as it was pointed out in the 1970s that there had been a major pollution there. There, too, better coordination between the regional and federal levels is desirable. You know our position on this. For us, therefore, food safety should also be allowed to go to the level at which agriculture and the environment are situated.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic547x.u71	Question No 55019604C by Mr Patrick Prévot is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic547x.u72	Mr Minister, the authorisation for the sale of arthropods expires at the end of 2022. The industry started the process of applying for a new licence a year ago. The food agencies of France, Hungary, Sweden and the Netherlands prepared the opinion of the European Food Agency EFSA. A risk assessment was therefore made on which Europe will base itself to decide whether or not to ban the use of arthropods this time. The previous European licence dates back to 2017 and there were heated discussions ahead of it. Our country voted against it at the time, as did the European Parliament. The EFSA opinion now appears to be favourable. However, many studies are used as the basis for the dossier, which were already there last time and which have now been shown to be scientifically rattled on all sides. The cancer institute at the Medical University of Vienna has indicated this. They refer to a large number of reasons why these studies were not carried out scientifically correctly. The institute was appointed to judge the secret studies provided by industry. Minister, will our country insist on new scientific research, as recommended by the Vienna Institute? Will our country vote again against the use of satsumas, as in 2017?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic547x.u73	Mrs Jiroflée, there was indeed a report recently published by an NGO, which is only available on the NGO's website. These are explicitly personal findings and no recommendations are made for additional research. The findings relate to the studies submitted in the previous application of 2012 for the renewal of the approval of arthropods at European level. As laid down in European legislation, the studies must meet the criteria and methodologies for the evaluation applicable at the time of submission. These studies must be carried out and incorporated in the application in advance. It is, of course, quite impossible to guarantee that any future criteria will be met. However, this was examined by both professors, namely whether the studies submitted in 2012 meet the criteria of 2015. It is precisely in order to take into account the progress of scientific knowledge and the corresponding adaptation of evaluation methodologies that the approval of active substances at European level is regularly reviewed. It is also precisely because new evaluation methodologies were available at the time of the previous renewal of the approval of arthropods that a shorter period of use was approved. Meanwhile, the new studies have been delivered and the four rapporteur Member States have also submitted a draft renewal assessment report to EFSA. Only after a quality test by EFSA and ECHA will this be made available. In view of the heavy workload, it is impossible to ask the administration and the associated research institutes to evaluate all possible comments and opinions in parallel in the margins of the public consultation procedure. I must therefore await the outcome of this scientific re-evaluation before taking a position on a possible extension of the approval of satsumas.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic547x.u74	I must say, Minister, that you do not reassure me at all, because I am convinced that certain matters need to be examined in greater detail. Our country must carry out that investigation properly before it decides its position. However, I do not have the impression that you intend to do so, perhaps because it would take too much work. However, the presence of arthropods in certain products is a particularly important issue and we will follow it closely. I will certainly come back to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic547x.u75	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you again for your flexibility. I have to ask questions simultaneously in two committees, which makes the situation complex.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic547x.u76	Mrs de Laveleye, I have indeed read this report questioning the decisions and operation of EFSA. These include metabolites of 12 pesticides that are classified as genotoxic but are accepted by EFSA below a certain concentration. I draw your attention to the fact that the active substances of pesticides themselves are not classified as genotoxic. Otherwise, they should be banned. EFSA follows the scientific consensus to determine an acceptable concentration. Belgium follows the same scientific consensus and, like the European Commission, relies on EFSA's opinions to determine the voting position. Belgium has no doubt about the quality of EFSA's work. On the contrary, EFSA is considered to be an extremely reliable and transparent partner. With regard to your second question, the Scientific Committee of the AFSCA is not involved in this procedure, since the FPS is responsible for public health. Active substances approved at European level, such as maleic hydrazide, may be placed on the Belgian market provided that the formulation is authorised at Belgian level. In addition, the use of authorised plant protection products shall be guided according to an authorised instructions. Each authorisation shall specify, inter alia, the target crop, the pre-harvest period, the stage of application, the control objective and the dose used. Data on the use of plant protection products in agriculture are produced by the Regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic547x.u77	Mr President, I will be brief. Minister, I fully understand your absolute confidence in EFSA. I think several cases have, however, encountered difficulties. It's not a bad idea that I raise this. It would not come to my mind to say that the EFSA, with full knowledge of the matter, would follow a lobby. But in fact, we know that scientific work is often produced by people who have special interests in the dissemination of certain plant protection products or pesticides. I think that here we see the urgency of having an approach based on the precautionary principle and the urgency of following the European directive on the release of pesticides. I know that we find ourselves on this and that our government agreement is quite clear. But let us be vigilant at all times, whenever we listen to the sector, whenever we read scientific analyses! Let's see who wrote them, where they come from and our perspective to protect our farmers, our consumers and our biodiversity! Again, this is an example of the fact that, despite everything, there is still too much flexibility and risk-taking at this stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic547x.u78	Mr President, Mrs Dierick, with regard to training to deal with new fraud techniques, the current numerical world needs to change the methods of surveying. Much information can be obtained from numerical carriers or the Internet. The employees of the NOE follow the various training courses on an annual basis in order to adapt to the new techniques used by the fraudsters. Some are general training courses, others are more material-specific, such as those offered through Better Training for Safer Food. For example, additional training will be organised in 2021 to analyse seized electronic data. The necessary computer tools have already been purchased for this purpose. There is also a project currently under way to develop an ECOFIN fraud sector to proactively detect food fraud. As far as consumer awareness is concerned, the BFSA has sensitized consumers to excessively attractive offers by means of a published press release. It has drawn particular attention to the fact that a bright colour of tuna does not necessarily mean that the fish is fresher. Certain fraudulent techniques in tuna have never been established in Belgium to date. The results of this action have led, on the one hand, to the inclusion of the analysis of carbon monoxide in tuna in the routine controls of the BFSA through the 2021 control programme. On the other hand, more checks on carbon monoxide sampling of imported tuna from third countries are carried out at border control posts. The NOE, in collaboration with the FPS Economy, is the single point of contact (SPOC) for the European food fraud network. The results of the Tuna 2020 action are distributed through the network across all European Member States to raise awareness. Between 2019 and 2020, 36% more messages were sent in the EU. In Belgium, the increase in outgoing messages was even 138 %. The active use and communication of the iRASFF system on cases of food fraud strengthens cooperation with Member States and the European Commission. The results of the tuna project cannot be communicated as they are part of an ongoing investigation. In the future, there will continue to be intense cooperation between the BFSA and other competent authorities to combat illegal trade in fishery products. Furthermore, the additional action in the fisheries sector is still in preparation for 2021. So I cannot give any further details on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic547x.u79	Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensive answer. I am pleased to note that extra training is indeed being used, so that inspectors are also taught the latest techniques to detect fraudsters as quickly as possible. Good consumer awareness is indeed important. There is certainly a need to move quickly if such fraud is to be detected. The consumer must be informed quickly. I think it is important to repeat this. A one-time press release is not enough. I think it would be useful to repeat that. It is good that there is good cooperation to combat all illegal trade in the fishing industry.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic547x.u80	The African swine fever (AVP) and the Bird flu virus are animal diseases that have had an economic impact on the Belgian pig and poultry sector. 17 countries have closed their markets for Belgian pigmeat as a result of AVP. 24 countries did the same for Belgian poultry meat following the avian influenza virus. It is important for both sectors to lift the embargo as soon as possible and to reaffirm trade relations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic547x.u81	Mrs Dierick, there are 15 countries currently applying restrictions on imports of Belgian pork because of the AVP. South Korea, a priority country for the pig sector, has recently lifted its import ban thanks to the many efforts of the BFSA. The countries which maintain an embargo on the whole of Belgium are: Taiwan, China, Belarus, Australia, Japan, Uruguay, Colombia, Barbados, the Dominican Republic, Sri Lanka, Seychelles and Peru. India, Vietnam and Kazakhstan have been applying regionalisation for a long time. This amounts to an almost complete opening-up of the market for Belgian pork in these three countries. There are therefore currently 12 third countries for which exports of pigmeat from Belgium are not possible because of the AVP. Belgium negotiates with all these countries. Taiwan, Australia and Japan are currently analysing our completed questionnaires. The technical meetings were very constructive and we hope for a positive signal in September. The situation is currently blocked in Belarus and China. Other countries are not interesting enough for our sector to finance an inspection visit that is necessary for them. That applies to Peru and Colombia. Other countries are refusing to respond to our efforts to communicate and negotiate. For Uruguay, another active démarche was requested at our local posts. As far as poultry is concerned, 24 third countries have currently imposed restrictions on the export of Belgian poultry and poultry meat. South Africa, Israel, Hong Kong, Singapore, China, Morocco, Korea, Cuba, United Arab Emirates, Japan, Russia, Philippines, Mexico, Ukraine, Taiwan, Jordan, Saudi Arabia, Turkey, Suriname, Tunisia, Oman, Kuwait, Thailand and New Caledonia. As you can see, no embargo has yet been lifted, as the Belgian self-declaration 'free from avian influenza' has not yet been accepted and published by the World Organisation for Animal Health (OECD). Fortunately, no additional embargo has been imposed. As regards avian influenza, the BFSA submitted a self-declaration to the OIE on 11 May three months after the last infection on a commercial poultry holding. In doing so, our country once again claims the free status of highly pathogenic avian influenza in commercial poultry. The OIE raised additional questions on 15 June, to which the BFSA replied. As for African swine fever, Belgium should regain its status 'free from avian influenza' over the coming weeks. The opening of new export markets is a long-term work and usually takes years. We are very dependent on external factors such as the political relationship between Belgium and/or Europe and third countries. Regular consultations have been held with different actors to identify the priority countries, to exchange the latest information and to carry out targeted démarches at the different levels. Visits at ministerial level are also taken into account and consideration is given to how trade missions and state visits can be used to support the export files. I am currently examining with the BFSA the possibilities of issuing attachés to other countries, taking into account the priority markets for Belgian exporters, the experience we have with those third countries in the field of sanitary and phytosanitary barriers and the potential impact of the on-the-spot representation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic547x.u82	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed reply, which I appreciate. It shows once again that avian influenza and swine fever have a major impact on Belgian holdings, with 12 third countries still excluded from exports of pigmeat and 24 countries with regard to poultry. I am glad that negotiations are under way and that there is improvement in sight, especially with regard to avian flu, and that our country will hopefully get the status 'free from avian flu' in September. I would also like to thank you for taking every opportunity to convince other countries of the quality of our agricultural products. Our farmers certainly appreciate that and can use it well.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic547x.u83	Debates of the European Parliament Mr De Caluwé's 55019858C was postponed.
