ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u1	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I tabled my question before there was a special regime for trains to the coast. So the questions are more generally about the corona measures, but they will undoubtedly also form the basis for the rest of the debate. The new, more contagious variants are causing the contamination rates to rise again. I don't have to explain that anymore. Since the outbreak of the pandemic, public transport has been an important element in the debate. There is a mouth mask requirement, the capacity utilisation is shown in the new SNCB app and so on. Reality shows that it can often be quite busy on the train, especially during the morning and evening pits. Mr Roggeman has also pointed this out on several occasions. That is why I would like to ask the following general questions once again, regardless of the situation on the trains to the coast. How many corona virus infections were assigned to risk contacts on SNCB's vehicles? The answer to that question may not be as simple as contact tracing does not always allow. Perhaps you can formulate some elements of your answer on this? That's why I'm bringing it to you. Is there any scientific research on the possible risk of contamination on public transport today? Are there data from abroad, for example, and is this taken into account? Has the presence of the new and more contagious variants in our country led to the introduction of preventive additional protection measures for passenger transport by train? And then came the measure for the trains to the coast... How does compliance with the measures and their monitoring proceed? How many violations were detected? Were there fines for that and if so, how many? Could it be useful, as in other European countries, to require FFP2 masks or surgical masks? What is the ventilation capacity of the different train sets? Are the wagons sufficiently aired? I suspect that there is a big difference between older and newer couples; with the older one it is necessary to open the windows. Is the maximum capacity sufficiently controlled? That's an important question, I think. What is the feedback of the passengers on the indication of capacity utilisation in the new app? Finally, has this issue been discussed recently at the Mobility Ministers' Consultation Committee? If so, how do your colleagues in the regional governments view the further measures to protect passengers on public transport in our country? All these questions arise from a general remark that is sometimes made: there are so many restrictive measures for the citizens of our country, but everyone can go on public transport together. Can we counter that easy-made remark with numbers in hand?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u2	Minister, the framework agreement has not yet entered into force and we can already see today that it is problematic. I just got word from someone who had to take the train at the South Station and wait three hours for it. The travelers don't know if they'll be able to go or not. It is a catastrophe and the framework agreement has not yet been implemented! I don't know if you've read Sofie's blog, a commuter, who asks a lot of questions. You take the train and you read it? According to her, you do not take the train and she does not quite understand how it is possible for a minister to introduce such a measure, when we know that it will not be workable. The travelers have a lot of questions. What happens if people can't take the train? What will they do with their ticket? There are a lot of questions and they cause a lot of stress. In addition, we see how in Brussels, where I live, it is no problem to sit at the window on the metro or tram. Travelers are allowed to sit everywhere and there is apparently no risk of contamination. For travellers, the measures contained in the agreement are incomprehensible. Through your spokesperson, we have learned that this difficult measure was an idea of corona Commissioner Pedro Facon. Is that right? Has there been a prior consultation with SNCB on the new measure? If so, what was the railway company's vision? How should the new measures be maintained? There are many objections to think of. What if passengers no longer find free space at the window when the train has already left? Will passengers who are no longer free on the train be compensated by SNCB? The train to the sea costs more than 30 euros. Suppose one cannot leave, then what happens to the ticket? How much turnover loss is it estimated that SNCB will suffer from this? How much additional costs will SNCB have to incur in order to implement and monitor the measures? Isn't it better to open first class to everyone? This way one easily wins 10 % extra seats on the train.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u3	Mr President, Minister, everyone saw from miles away that the Easter holiday would once again be a potential problem. We have already warned of this in a similar debate after the crocus holiday. We had to prepare, take action. Literally on every sunny holiday since March last year, a similar scenario has taken place. SNCB denied the light of the sun until two weeks ago, we have heard over and over again that there was no problem. SNCB simply carried out the management contract. A full train on which every seat was occupied had to be possible. SNCB did not have to adapt. That is the communication of yourself and the SNCB-direction of the past year in a nutshell. Fortunately, the governor of West Flanders has turned you and SNCB around and forced them to finally take action after more than a year, otherwise there might still be nothing on the table. The measures decided on, such as the famous framework rule, are receiving a lot of criticism. Its effectiveness is questionable. However, I am pleased that at least a choice has been made and measures taken by SNCB. That is in itself, after this spring, a small miracle. There are still measures. SNCB will set up a pilot project during the Easter holiday to predict the flow of travellers to Ostend. More than a year has passed since the first lockdown and SNCB will start a pilot project next week. That's impossible to estimate. That the introduction of an additional week Easter holiday would cause problems, everyone saw it coming. Last week it was already clear that the hotels and B & Bs were fully booked for this week. You knew that yourself, and that problem has also been pointed out to you. The question has been asked by several journalists. Last week, in live interviews, you were asked why the measures were not brought forward. You were a guest in the Morning last Thursday. The journalist asked you whether anyone could travel to the sea on a full train next week. You replied that theoretically it is not a real holiday. The question then was whether that should not be postponed for a week. You replied that SNCB will remain alert. You didn't want to advise people not to go to the coast. Yesterday, SNCB, in your place, advised people not to go to the coast. They must repeat this call today. After all, the predicted problems are coming true today. I have an atmosphere here, but I am sure you will have noticed it yourself: overwhelmed people in Brussels-North and Ghent-Sint-Pieters, piled up travellers in the stations. There's still no crowd control in the stations, which means more than we're putting people in front of a fence, and that more than a year after the first lockdown. I find that hallucinating. I'm repeating myself. I've actually been saying the same thing in committee for a whole year. To my great regret and frustration, the circumstances today are such that I must repeat once again. I'd really like it to be the last time. Minister, how much longer do we have to look at these situations? When will SNCB finally work out the reservation system? Is she working on that? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u4	Mr President, Minister, on 19 March the Consultative Committee announced a new measure to increase health safety on the train. From 3 April onwards, only trains to a tourist destination are allowed at a window during weekends and school holidays. The precise application of this measure by SNCB is still unclear today. You have already clarified that only trains to the coast are involved, but further details are not yet known. It does fall on the coastal mayors and Governor Decaluwé responded positively while TrainTramBus claims that the measure is unworkable. On 22 March, the Governor of West Flanders said that he had sent you a letter of formal notice because, in his view, there was a considerable reluctance on the part of SNCB, even a guilty omission, to take sufficient action in the event of major pressure. He also mentioned insufficient political will on your part. Two days later, however, there appeared to have been a productive conversation between him and your cabinet. The result was reportedly that the protocols are finally being modified by SNCB. Minister, can you explain exactly what the new measure means and how it will be applied by SNCB? What is the real purpose of this? Has SNCB been consulted on this in advance? How will SNCB deal with the possible closure of stations on mayor's orders? Among other things, Mr Tommelein has repeatedly threatened to close the station at his command if the trains were too full. Has there been an effective default sent to you by the governor of West Flanders? How do you handle this? Can you explain what the consultation on 24 March has resulted in in concrete terms? Can we not consider introducing some kind of reservation system, given the current hustle and bustle in the stations? In fact, that could give SNCB more certainty about the likely flow of people. On the other hand, this also offers guarantees to the traveller. Even worse than not being able to buy a ticket because there is no place on the train, it is possible to buy a ticket, but then have to wait hours in a station, to eventually not be able to get on the train. Perhaps the current situation could make it possible to consider something like this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u5	Minister, the latest Codeco has decided to require all adults to sit on the window side of trains to tourist areas. This Friday, your firm stated that this measure will only be imposed on trains to the coast and not on trains returning to the coast or to other tourist destinations. It is clear that public transport must adapt its offer to respond to the crisis. The worrying new acceleration in the spread of the covid-19 virus imposes a collective responsibility to which no sector can derogate. It is also essential to ensure consistency between measures so that they are understood by all. In this regard, since travel is not prohibited, SNCB is expected to be able to respond to travel requests by providing adequate removal measures. So, Minister, how do you explain that the requirement to sit on the side of the windows does not apply to trains returning from the Coast? Why are other tourist areas not affected by the measure? How will SNCB enforce the measure? How will it avoid massive crowdings on the docks? Does it have sufficient human resources? How can railway operators, on board trains or on wharves, be prevented from being exposed to contamination? In the face of the new spread of the virus, should the SNCB not once again increase the number of seats throughout the territory in order to provide maximum space between travellers, whether they go to the coast or elsewhere?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, the pandemic has been going on for over a year now and it is difficult for everyone; we all want more freedom. Since the beginning of the pandemic, trains have continued to run, to take workers to work or children to school or simply to take people wherever they want. I would like to express my thanks to the staff of SNCB for this. They have always ensured that trains cause, even in the depths of the crisis, with respect for health measures. SNCB has been taking many measures for months to ensure that all journeys are as safe as possible. At this stage, the risk of contamination in public transport is not zero, but rather rather small. On a regular basis, meetings are held with the International Union of Railways, where scientific data is exchanged, Mr Van den Bergh. An extensive study by Deutsche Bahn showed that there was no increased incidence of train use. The measures taken are known: - the obligation to wear the mask on trains, which the SNCB is probably the first to have required, is generally respected even if there are some observations to the contrary; - carrying out microsystematic announcements on the management of the pandemic; - the need to keep distances as far as possible; - the very regular cleaning of trains; - the provision of maximum train capacity while the number of passengers has decreased very sharply, and this is still the case at the moment, except for exceptions; - more exceptional measures such as the decommissioning of first-class cars on the initiative of train attendants or measures to control specific crowds to the most frequented destinations, in particular the Belgian coast, good weather days, weekends or during the carnival holidays. The preventive measures are taken in accordance with the Sciensano guidelines. In addition, a risk analysis is carried out, in close consultation with the occupational doctors of the external prevention services. Train guidance staff and station staff shall ensure compliance with the corona measures in a sensitising manner. The police services are responsible for monitoring compliance throughout the country, including at stations and trains if necessary. The SNCB's internal security service, Securail, was also responsible for monitoring these measures and, in particular, those relating to the wearing of the mask. As of March 14, 2021, Mr.Van den Bergh, this service had issued 4 737 minutes for not wearing the mask. On the number of SNCB passengers, this figure is relative, although in absolute terms it may appear significant. I think, Mrs Vindevoghel, in order to take the train regularly, that this measure is generally well respected. I must also point out that the air is very regularly renewed in trains, especially in the most recent trains of course. This criterion is important to limit the spread of the virus. The international studies carried out – I mentioned – like the observation of what has happened on our trains since the beginning of the pandemic do not indicate a greater risk of infection on trains than in other activities of daily life, the zero risk does not exist. However, on the eve of the Easter holidays, travel abroad was still prohibited, and further measures were needed to limit, as far as possible, the excessive concentration of population in certain parts of the territory and thus the increased risk of contamination. The government also accepts its responsibility. Because the virus is circulating more because of the British variant and in view of the evolution of the pandemic, additional measures were taken at the Consultation Committee on Friday 19 March and Wednesday 24 March with the relevant framework measure. That measure was taken at the explicit request of the Coronac Commissioner. The measure starts on 3 April, the beginning of the Easter holiday, and runs until the end of April. The measure does not apply on school days and only to tourist destinations. There is an exception for children under the age of 12. They could be with their parents. From the moment the decision was taken, discussions were held with SNCB and the Federal Crisis Centre, in particular with a view to defining the exact contours and taking the necessary accompanying measures to implement them as best as possible. If the Belgian coast is not the only tourist area in our beautiful country, it has been observed that it is it which concentrates the most travel by train and can generate an overload of these, especially in the case of good weather. It is the Ostend, Blankenberge and Knokke stations that experience the most abundance and to which the measurement will apply, after analysis and discussion with SNCB. It is certainly not an easy measure to implement, certainly not for the train escorts and Securail. It will be necessary to work well together, including with the police services that will provide support. A maximum number of SNCB agents will be mobilised with the support of external reinforcements so as to ensure that everything goes as smoothly as possible on stations and trains. Here I would like to thank SNCB and its workers for their efforts. In particular, the attendants will be responsible for assessing the number of seats available on the trains with a view to informing the next station, thus determining the number of persons who can board the train at that station and channeling the passengers on hold. In this case, passengers may have to wait at the station for the arrival of a train with seating positions. To prepare the application of this measure, we analyzed flows with SNCB. More than just going, it is the return of the sea that is likely to cause difficulties on the trains because everyone wants to take the train at the same time, between 6 p.m. and 8 p.m., as we arrive more gradually towards the sea, from the beginning of the morning until the beginning of the afternoon. This may have led, in the past, to unwanted gatherings at the stations concerned. I remember in particular the situation in Ostend in August, which was really problematic. Specific measures should be taken to address this phenomenon, including the establishment of reserve trains for the return and systematic decommissioning of the first class. Similarly, it was decided not to apply the window rule for return. On the other hand, the other health rules – for example, the wearing of the mask, the fact of not exceeding the 100 % of seats – remain applicable, on the understanding that many passengers already descend from the train in Bruges (13 minutes from Ostend) or in Ghent (37 minutes from Ostend). This therefore leaves enough room for those who continue their journey in other directions. There was no question of leaving people on the wharf, in the train stations or in the streets of Ostend, Blankenberge or Knokke, whatever the weather. Everyone has the right to travel by train, regardless of the direction. With regard to the more concrete practical modalities, SNCB will ensure communication to travellers within the next few hours via its various communication channels. As regards me, despite the complexity of this measure, it was necessary above all to guarantee mobility by train during these next holidays, to continue to allow Belgians to go to the sea if that is their wish, and to do so, if necessary, under the best possible conditions. I would also remind you that there are many other fantastic destinations in our country, such as walking or cycling, whether to the south, the north or the centre of the country. I did indeed receive a registered letter from the Governor of West Flanders which I acknowledged receipt of. The governor's reaction seemed somewhat excessive. In any case, it does not correspond to the method I have chosen to facilitate a dialogue with solutions. I fully understand the difficulty for the coastal area to manage a large number of tourists while the horeca area is closed for the reasons we know. However, I think it is just as important to say that the North Sea belongs to everyone. Several consultation meetings on the measures to be taken involving representatives of the SNCB, the cabinet of my colleague from the Interior, the Crisis Centre, which I thank for his intervention, the mayors of the Coast and the governor were organised. These meetings led to a calming and constructive dialogue that led to specific actions. On 5 March, SNCB made an innovative proposal for a system that predicts and anticipates the expected flows of passengers to the coast. This system is based on information from the itinerary, available via the SNCB app and website. The vast majority of customers consult the travel planner in advance to plan a train ride. There will be a pilot project for the trains to Ostend, which will be tested during the Easter holidays. The coastal mayors are satisfied with this proposal, which will indeed have to be evaluated. Better communication is also planned between SNCB and coastal area law enforcement services in order to better anticipate the arrival of travellers. I would like to stress the importance of continuing to operate trains. Our mobility and our freedom, I want to defend them as best I can as Minister of Mobility. He is also a lesson from the first lockdown that the freedom to move is crucial for our mental well-being. People need that. A week or a month, people can stay in their quarters, but then they go crazy. Even if I do not find it very wise to go to the sea on crowded trains these days, I fully understand the will of the Belgians to continue to move, especially by train. It is a pleasant and secure way of moving. Finally, I would like to remind you that many other destinations are accessible – and will remain – during this Easter holiday. I can only encourage our fellow citizens to take advantage of our beautiful country in all its directions, from north to south, through the centre. As far as the situation of the day is concerned, I confirm that my firm is in constant contact with SNCB. He had drawn SNCB's attention to the risk, given the positive weather, of seeing more travellers to the sea. Maximum train service is provided, including for return, with reserve trains that will be activated, as will be the case during Easter holidays.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u7	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your detailed reply, but I do have two comments. Firstly, it remains striking that all the figures or surveys indicate that there does not seem to be an increased risk to public transport or to rail users, which actually teaches us that well-lit spaces with people wearing mouth masks can handle something. Secondly, a year ago we suggested that a reservation system for tourist trains towards the coast could be a good step. Since we have recently learned that more than 70% of all tickets are purchased electronically, that does not seem to be such a big step anymore. Why is that such a big taboo? I do not think that this would make it so much more difficult for travellers to take the train and it at least provides the assurance that they will find a place on the train. That could save them a lot of misery, because the way it is organized now is not obvious.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u8	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive reply. Of course, it's not an easy situation. No one's claiming that. You have rightly praised SNCB for the fact that the trains have continued to run. This is, of course, a good thing, and no one here wants trains to be out of service, but everything must be done with respect for the measures in force to ensure the health of passengers and staff. There's a little bit of the shoe. A number of measures have now been taken. I also refer to the system of monitoring travel flows. We note, however, that the call has again been made today not to go to the coast. Isn't that contrary to the assertion that everyone must be free to travel anywhere? So I am mainly concerned about managing and controlling that capacity. I can only conclude that, after a year of corona crisis and despite the measures taken, there are problems again. As a result, I am also seriously concerned about the coming weeks and the Easter holiday.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u9	Mr Minister, I do not understand why this framework agreement is concluded when you say that there are actually not so many increased risks. You yourself said here that the risks on the train are limited, when we know what the consequences of that agreement will be and what chaos it will mean on the trains. How are they gonna organize all that? I don't know, people don't understand. They have to sit at the window while driving, but not on the way back. There's no need for it in other places. People don't get it anymore. Then I understand that many people are very displeased with politics. We ask that there be more trains and that they be spread better on the coast. Now you can be done by two mayors by the sea who do not want to receive too many train passengers, but there are other coastal communities, where trains can also go. Put in more trains, make sure there are more possibilities, make sure people can take the train anyway. We do not understand why the framework agreement was introduced. That's incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u10	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. Your tribute to the train crew is certainly right and I agree with you that the North Sea coast belongs to everyone and that everyone should be given the opportunity to move there. I do ask a lot of questions about the way in which this framework measure was adopted. Apparently, this has happened without prior consultation with SNCB and you are right to say that it will not be easy to enforce that measure. In fact, SNCB is hoping to manage the influx of people with even more security personnel in one way or another. I fear that this way of working, along with a call to visit the other beautiful places in our country, will not be enough to prevent people in the stations from waiting for hours for a train. I think we should be able to consider a reservation system. Secondly, I would like to suggest to SNCB that we take a look at the event sector. Many people are currently unemployed, but have had years of experience with flow control and managing large groups of people. Perhaps SNCB can work with events companies to better guide and spread the large mass of people to be expected in the stations. In this way it should be possible to keep our coasts accessible to everyone, because I fully support them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u11	Minister, thank you for your answers. I do believe that many measures are implemented and respected in trains (carrying masks on trains, stations and docks, checking the wearing of masks with the collaboration of SNCB agents, cleaning tablets, etc.).). It is a good thing to anticipate intrabelgian travel via SNCB to avoid gathering people in the wagons. I would like to highlight SNCB's various initiatives in this area. However, the question of the return journeys from the coast remains pending for me. I hope that this issue will be addressed and clarified in practice.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u12	Minister, we have had this debate many times since every school vacation. We're repeating ourselves. I hope this will be the last time we have to repeat ourselves. I'll at least conclude that the reservation system isn't going to happen. It has been long considered with SNCB. We now hear that this is no longer the case. That's a shame. I regret that. You seem to be counting on the measures that have been taken recently. I hope you're right, Minister. I sincerely hope that it will be enough to get the situation under control. Honestly, I'm afraid so, but I hope you're right and I'm not. In the short term, the measures were decided on 19 March. The procedure is clear. You just explained them. Tomorrow and the day after tomorrow they predict again sunny weather on the coast. Is it really necessary to wait until the weekend to roll out the decided measures, which have been clear for two weeks? Wouldn't it be a wise choice to bring that forward? Please do not let us stand idly by while tomorrow and the day after tomorrow we expect exactly the same problems as today. Would it not be a good idea to play the ball briefly for once, to be proactive and to introduce the measures you are calling for as a solution now?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u13	Minister, I only heard part of the Minister's reply because I was still on another committee. I will read that answer thoroughly before I give a reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u14	Question No 55014319C by Mr Malik Ben Achour is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u15	Mr Raskin and Mrs Buyst are not present.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u16	For my first question, Minister, I refer to the written version.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u17	Minister, you can also give me the answer to that question in writing. My second question is more general. We've been working together for about six months now. You promised to double the volume of freight transport on the Belgian rail network in 10 years' time. That was your objective, and I suspect that is still the case. The figures and promised euros lied and did not lie. However, if we can believe some sources, these promised euros are not enough. This is a first reason for some suspicion of various policy areas. In any case, I would like to know what the state of play is in the consultations. Which regional and local authorities have already sat around the table? Were there any results? The same question arises in connection with consultations with interest groups, private operators and platforms. Of course, the EU level is also very important, especially in the context of freight transport in the broad context. Have you come to certain insights and possible agreements in the last six months? Unfortunately, the corona crisis is still not over; we are now in a next phase. In light of that evolution, are there any measures in the pipeline? These are measures which have already been requested over the past year and which have been partially met, such as the road-path fee. My last question is very topical. The Suez blockade, which has been lifted since yesterday, showed that the Suez Canal is a bottleneck for the goods traffic from Asia to Europe and vice versa.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u18	This brings the new Silk Road by Rail to the forefront, as well as the demand to promote and subsidise it more. What's your vision on that? Does this also fit in with the ambitions by 2030, or do you see a different evolution after the Suez problem last week than you explained at the beginning of your happy arrival here in Parliament? What view do you have, in short, on that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u19	Mr De Spiegeleer, an evaluation of the existing aid scheme for combined transport and distributed transport is under way in my question. It was already the subject of a first discussion with the sector in February 2021. Contacts will continue in the coming weeks. Given that financial resources are limited, I will be very careful to ensure that the new system does not lead to inefficiency in the working process, that it is transparent and open to the entire rail sector, that it is well coordinated with possible regional support, and that it is a real incentive for modal shift. For capacity allocation, Infrabel should respect Article 33 of the Railway Code, which provides that applications for regular services shall be submitted and processed in accordance with the calendar set out in Annex 7 to the European Directive of 21 November 2012 on the establishment of a European Railway Area. An adaptation to the application system will take the form of the Timetabling Redesign (TTR) project, which will be implemented by 2025 with the infrastructure managers of different European countries. The project ensures that after ordering the passenger capacity there is still sufficient performance capacity, which can be ordered by freight operators from four months to one month before the day of the journey. Infrabel is active in the pilot project Amsterdam-Antwerp-Paris and has also appointed a TTR implementation manager. For the projects submitted under the European Plan for Recovery and Resilience, I would like to refer you to my reply at the committee meeting of 23 February 2021. I will not be able to communicate the concrete projects that will be carried out with this envelope until the final choice of the European Commission is known. Infrabel informs me to participate actively in the Haventracé workbench chaired by the Antwerp governor Cathy Berx. Infrabel has provided a comprehensive explanation of the "Old Countries" project at various times, in addition to the information market organised in Ekeren in 2019 in the framework of public research. During the sessions of the Haventracé Work Bank in 2019 and 2020, the figures covered by Infrabel were explained in detail and delivered to the participants. As regards the number of trains at the level of branching Schijn, Infrabel has the figures from 2012. It's about the actual rides. During the last presentation, Infrabel also explained the requested prognosis. The traffic forecast is based, inter alia, on the Planbureau's forecast. This is also evident from the figures published during the last workbench session. There was also a report of these sessions, which was then shared with all participants. Infrabel is implementing a project, in this case "Old Countries." On the basis of the prospects of the Federal Planning Bureau and the ambitions of the government and the port, Infrabel must determine how this can be met. The figures you asked for should already be given as an answer to your written question. If not, they will be delivered to you as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u20	Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensive answer. This is indeed an original written question which has been converted into an oral question. I would like to receive the written version of your reply because it was not entirely clear to me, which is certainly not a reproach. With regard to the general question about the ambition of freight rail transport by 2030, you yourself say that the money could be the problem. You did not take the word 'problem' literally in your mouth, but we saw this evidentiary coming in November. Unfortunately, we will be faced with this in the coming years. The clock is ticking and 2030 is not far away forever. Rome is not built on one day, we know, but 2030 is, especially in the context in which we are unfortunately used to Infrabel performing works, relatively close. My suspicion and concern in this regard have certainly not been removed. I'd like to finish with a positive note. Despite the fact that Mr Raskin and Mrs Buyst are not here today, I note that in this committee the debate on rail freight has been more topical than ever since you arrived. This is largely due to your ambition in this area. That is significant, but that also means, of course, that the expectations in this committee, within this Parliament, but also, of course, in the field are very high. This debate will certainly continue in the coming months and years. This is being continued.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u21	Mr Minister, on Saturday 29 February, a railway worker, a shift manager, who was working for Infrabel by sub-contracting, was hit by a train and died. My thoughts are primarily with the family, friends and colleagues of the deceased railway worker. No one should die doing their job. Three years ago, we saw a similar accident happening in Ostend. Even then, a railway worker who was employed by a subcontractor was hit by a train. In October 2020, only five months ago, there was also a fatal accident with a 62-year-old railway worker in Juprelle. We can't tolerate so many fatal accidents on our tracks. Infrabel is increasingly resorting to subcontracting. In doing so, the responsibility is always shifted. There's a lot of pressure on the yards to act quickly and clear the tracks. The work is done in the dark, at night, in fog banks, in rain and freezing weather. Working on the track is and remains extremely dangerous. Mr Secretary, how exactly did the accident in Ruisbroek happen? Who was responsible for safety during work? Which sub-contractor was the victim working for? According to testimonies from the site, the work would have continued immediately after the fatal accident. Is that right? Who ordered the continuation of the works? Does Infrabel have an insight into all subcontracting activities that are active on the Belgian tracks? Does it also guarantee the safety of all employees working for subcontractors? What measures does Infrabel take to ensure the safety of all who works on or around the tracks? What rules are used in the procurement procedures to prevent social dumping and to enforce maximum security? Can we in this committee get an overview of all the accidents at work of railway workers in Belgium over the last five years, in order to gain more insight into the problems and the danger of the railway workers running?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u22	Mrs Vindevoghel, the death of the railway worker is a tragedy for the large family of railway workers. As Minister of Mobility, what happened hits me right in the heart. I would therefore like to express my express condolences to all the next of kin. The accident also reminds us that working in the railway sector is difficult and dangerous. This also explains the very strict security measures that are and must be applied there. In the future, we need to monitor this even more closely. I come to your questions. According to what Infrabel currently has at its disposal as information, the victim has gone on a track. The investigation is carried out in accordance with the applicable legal requirements. The contractor shall assume the final responsibility for the safety of his staff as an employer. The victim worked for the company APK. The victim worked with his crew the night of Friday on Saturday. The accident happened Saturday at 6:00 in the morning, at the end of the shift. The rest of the night shift returned home and therefore did not continue to work on site. After the legal findings had been made and after police approval of access to the tracks, another team of workers, from another private company, took over the work at the beginning of the afternoon. This work was necessary for the resumption of train traffic on Monday morning. On Saturday after the accident, Infrabel established a support centre in the Logistics Centre Infrastructure, with the presence of two prevention advisors and one psychologist from the external prevention service. The entrepreneur was informed about the presence of this support point. Infrabel informs me that, in application of the law on public contracts, it concludes agreements with the contractors. It is contractually stipulated that the contractor must at any time have an up-to-date list of the employees present at the yards, of both its own staff and subcontractors. The main contractor and the subcontractor are responsible for the safety of their employees, in accordance with welfare legislation. Contractors and subcontractors shall be responsible for the training of their personnel and shall certify that their employees are adequately trained and sufficiently aware of the risks posed by the railway infrastructure and the yard in question through the award of a badge. This badge is only received after attending a security briefing. The wearing of this badge on the Infrabeldomain is an obligation for all contractors and subcontractors. This badge is the guarantee that each external person has been assessed on his knowledge of the risks present in the railway sector. Checks are carried out by his supervisors at the Infrabel yards. This obligation is without exception and therefore applies to both railway staff and all subcontractors. In order to better control risk factors, Infrabel takes a number of preventive measures, in particular through the handbook. Infrabel also has a code of conduct for its suppliers and contractors. This code, developed within the framework of Infrabel's CSR policy, emphasises Infrabel's expectations of its contractors in the field of occupational safety. I will have the figures requested by you delivered to the committee secretariat. Finally, I would like to stress that both for myself and for Infrabel, the safety of workers is always a priority, both for their own employees and for those of subcontractors.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u23	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive answer. I myself was a trade union delegate and a member of the CPBW at the airport. I have experienced it once as a Member that an employee, a colleague, has had a fatal accident. I'll never forget that. That's engraved in my heart. That is the worst thing one can experience as a Member of Parliament, which a colleague crashes at work. It was a daddy who had a young child. I just want to stress here that safety for workers is very important to us. I am therefore pleased that you yourself want to pay a great deal of attention to this and that we can get an overview of the number of accidents that have occurred. I believe that Infrabel's CPBW can also play a role in ensuring the safety of workers. A parent company also has a role to play. It would be good to have good communication between the people of Infrabel and the staff representatives so that they can ensure that the staff can work safely.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u24	Mr Minister, this is a regular issue in our committee, even on a day-to-day basis!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u25	Mr President, Minister, the night train is an important means of transport that can carry large groups of people over long distances in a cheap, comfortable and environmentally responsible way. In the last 25 years, however, they have almost completely disappeared as a result of the liberalisation of the railways. A significant development of the network of night trains cannot therefore be achieved without questioning the European liberal framework. Austria is a good example. There they invest heavily in a climate-friendly alternative to the car and the plane. They do that through investment in the railroad, more precisely on the night train. In 2018, ÖBB and Siemens Mobility signed a contract of €1.5 billion for 700 new trains. A total of 33 new Nightjet sets are being built, providing 231 night trains in total. These will be delivered over the next five years. The first night train was introduced last month. By 2022, the first series should be fully operational. They are Homologized to drive in Austria, Germany, Switzerland, Croatia, Poland, Slovakia, the Czech Republic and Hungary. ÖBB's night trains have 100 seats and 160 sleeping places, as well as adapted spaces for passengers with reduced mobility, good internet connection and space for bicycles. Mr Minister, will the latest ÖBB night trains also be Homologized in Belgium? Has an application for approval already been submitted? On 20 January 2020, after a 17-year break, another night train left from Brussels to Vienna. How many night trains can we take today from a Brussels station? Will SNCB, like ÖBB a railway company entirely in government hands, also invest in night trains again and start connections themselves in the coming years? Are there any plans to convert carriages into night carriages? Are there plans to buy new night carriages? What steps have you taken as Minister of Mobility to promote the night train in Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u26	Mr Minister, some time ago we learned from the press that an initiative to create a new line of night trains passing through Belgium from the Netherlands would be set up. This is certainly excellent news for sustainable continental mobility. This confirms that demand exists and that interest, once the pandemic crisis has passed, is only growing. However, as we know, the obstacles are essentially technical, since the European rail network is far from uniform. The government agreement, in line with the House resolution that I have put forward, rightly underlines the central role of the historic operator, SNCB, in enabling the development of new initiatives. His know-how is essential and it seems that contacts have already been made on this subject. Minister, allow me to ask you the following questions. Do you confirm SNCB's participation in this new night train initiative from the Netherlands? In concrete terms, to what extent can SNCB support this project? Is SNCB involved in other similar projects? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u27	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as you all know, I am very much in favour of night trains. Night trains are in line with the ecological transition and modal shift that I and the entire government keep in mind. The gradual revival of the night train in Europe is also a step-by-step realisation of a more sustainable and perhaps more romantic mobility model. Mrs Vindevoghel, for your question on the concrete steps I have already taken and will be taking in general, I would refer you to the committee report of 12 January. There have been many points raised in answers to questions from Mrs Buyst, Mrs Verhaert, Mr Parent, Mr Van den Bergh and Mr Vandenbroucke. As far as the approval of the new ÖBB night carriages is concerned, this is a task for the Safety and Interoperability Service of the Railways, which falls within the competence of my excellent colleague, Minister De Sutter. The only night train we can take from Belgium for the time being is the Nightjet to Vienna. In non-corona times it runs three times a week between Austria and Belgium. As far as SNCB's plans are concerned, SNCB informs me that it is currently in conversation with various parties interested in the organisation of night trains. SNCB shall consider how cooperation can be organised. Cooperation may include, for example, the provision of personnel and locomotives or the participation in the distribution of tickets. SNCB itself no longer has carriages suitable for turning into sleeper carriages. SNCB also does not currently have any plans to buy new night coaches. The necessary equipment, lying carriages of the 1977 construction year, was taken out of service and sold in the course of 2016. SNCB therefore no longer has the type of carriage eligible for night trains. Elaborating a business model with seat carriages and special carriages in the portfolio is difficult. The lack of carriages is a major handicap, which hypothesizes the development of night trains and/or charter business in the future. In addition to my own efforts, I would like to encourage the FPS Mobility and SNCB to be part of the various ongoing initiatives. The will is there, both with SNCB and myself, to make progress as quickly as possible, by re-implementing the Brussels-Vienna link, culminating in the Brussels-Malmö project, which is already on the agenda and has already been discussed, by participating in the Paris-Berlin project and by participating in any initiative by my European colleagues, the Mobility Ministers. This morning, an informal Mobility Summit was held under the excellent Portuguese Presidency, during which I recalled our priority. This brings us seamlessly to the questions of Mrs Buyst, Mr Parent and Mme Hanus. As you mentioned in your questions, the authors of the European Sleeper project in the Netherlands will unveil their liaison project in the coming weeks. With regard to competitive business relationships, you will understand that they are covered by some confidentiality. For Infrabel, who communicates to me that she is developing a resolutely customer-oriented approach, such initiatives are obviously welcomed with enthusiasm and professionalism. The various applications are monitored and supported based on the expertise of the infrastructure manager. The FPS Mobility and Transport has also listened to the plans of European Sleeper and answered some practical questions, such as the railway companies in Belgium, the passenger licences and information on the ongoing initiatives in the field of night trains in our country. Currently, the FPS mainly has a supporting role, helping European Sleeper to find the right contacts with stakeholders and to help her with practical questions. European Sleeper indicated that he was in constructive discussion and that he would probably formally request capacity for these plans in the spring. It was also announced that the final destination could also be revealed in the spring, when discussions with potential partners reached the next phase. The possibility of subsidising new train connections could be an opportunity to boost international train traffic. However, the various successful international train connections that our country already knows are all carried out by commercial operators, without financial intervention from the government. In order to stimulate the development of international rail passenger transport, the International Passenger Rail Platform, in which Belgium actively participates, considers what measures could improve the conditions for the start-up of international rail links.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u28	Minister, I would prefer to see a little more ambition with regard to those night trains. We have a very good network in Europe and the infrastructure is actually already there. It is therefore a question of being more ambitious in terms of further development. It is also extremely ecologically important to spend real money and energy on it. I therefore call on you to work on the development of night trains from Belgium. Especially if we want to achieve our climate objectives, it can be very important to replace short flights with train journeys. This requires good cooperation at European level, but we must also ensure well-equipped trains ourselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u29	Minister, thank you for your answers. For my group and my excellent colleagues in Vooruit, the issue of the development of night trains is a path we want to follow to support more environmentally friendly mobility. Health conditions currently do not allow us to travel internationally as we want, but I remain optimistic that one day we will all be able to go back on a journey and why not by night train?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u30	Minister, thank you for your answers. As you pointed out, this is a subject that is passionate about Parliament, particularly the Socialists, Ecolo-groen and Mr. Van den Bergh from CD&V. It is true that this debate suffers from many obstacles. We are starting from scratch and it is particularly difficult for small countries like Belgium to start again, especially because of the equipment. But different European countries have revived themselves in the adventure of night trains and they can be models. What is important in the issues raised is the association between citizens and public authorities. There is not a way forward, not a model, but an obligation to deliver on this issue. We will therefore follow the aid provided by the SPF. We want this collaboration and support to increase as much as possible in the future. Dreaming alone remains a dream but dreaming together can become reality. We hope that this beautiful dream can one day become a reality.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u31	Mr Toventers, despite the health crisis, the service provided by SNCB is on the right track. Customer satisfaction increased from 60% in 2018 to 75% in 2020. The key performance indicators, which measure the quality of service, have also increased remarkably over the last two years. I would therefore very much like to thank SNCB's staff for their good work. The health conditions of the last year pose major challenges for them. SNCB wants to encourage its customers to take the train again in full confidence. She wants to continue to offer her customers a quality service for optimal satisfaction. She also wants to become more performant in a financially difficult context. It is now time to translate the direct award of public service contracts with ambitious objectives into a public service contract for ten years. We're working on that right now.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u32	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u33	(...) all citizens of our country. Discrimination based on sexual preference must always be tackled strictly. Homophobia must have no place in our country. SNCB informs me that it does not have any figures for reports of homophobia or transphobia in the trains and stations. Professionalism and respect are part of the basic values of SNCB. SNCB attaches great importance to the proper handling of diversity in its daily activities and has therefore developed a comprehensive diversity policy. This will focus on sensitisation and training. The training courses are available and accessible to the entire SNCB staff. Since Securail agents are regularly confronted with difficult professional situations, it was decided in 2020 to go further into this and develop an action plan that is closer to their daily reality. This plan will further strengthen the notions of diversity and non-discrimination in the basic training of the Securail agents, including on the basis of concrete practical examples. For information on the training of the railway police, please refer to the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u34	Minister, I am pleased that there is attention to diversity and violence against various communities. I'll question your colleague about the railroad police.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u35	Minister, recently transmigrants have also been trying to use rail freight to achieve their goals. This is usually the case in Great Britain, as we learn from the press coverage of early March 2021. The Swankendamme marshalling station seems to be an excellent place for that. Which locations do you think are most vulnerable to that kind of unauthorised entry, with a view to migration by rail? Do you have an estimate of the scale of the problem? I'd like to have a word with you about that. Have there been any accidents with transmigrants on the rails or trying to climb freight trains so far? How do you intend to prevent this? Have you planned any consultations with your colleagues from the Interior and Migration? I am also thinking of other involved partners such as the Foreign Office, the railway police, local authorities, freight carriers and possibly also your colleagues in neighbouring countries. What measures are you planning yourself, Infrabel or other interested parties to discourage and prevent this in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u36	Mr President, Mrs Verhaert, Mr Roggeman, SNCB, in particular its security service Securail, is working with the police on events occurring on the railway domain and having an impact on its operation. In this capacity, they will report illegal intrusion into the railway domain or large movements or concentrations of persons to the police forces. For any information available, please refer to my colleagues from the Interior and Migration. As far as your second question is concerned, the public service provided by SNCB consists in transporting passengers holding a valid ticket, without distinction between passenger types. As Minister for Mobility, therefore, I do not have that information. As regards your third question, Infrabel informs me that she has no knowledge of such accidents. There is no distinction between people in the event of accidents on the railways. Social security is one of the public service tasks of SNCB, but this mission does not include the control of migration. This is the responsibility of the Interior, the police and Asylum and Migration.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u37	For most of the questions, please refer to the Home Secretary. I understand that this is a shared competence, but hopefully this will not prevent SNCB and Infrabel from taking up this problem as well. It concerns migration through rail transport. They are directly involved. The problem of transmigration in the carriage of goods by road, with the climbing of lorries, has been with us for a long time now. During the previous legislature, the government took a number of initiatives in this area in good cooperation between the Minister for the Interior and the Minister for Mobility. I think it is a good idea to pursue the same initiatives towards rail transport. The problem does indeed seem to be moving. If both major national railway companies are involved, hopefully they and yourself, as supervisory minister, will assume responsibility for this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u38	It is very important, in view of the problems and in the interests of the safety of these migrants, to intervene in the way they follow in good time. Hopefully a number of actions will be taken here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u39	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, in the Committee on Mobility of 1 October 2019, I questioned your predecessor, former Minister Bellot, about the renewal of Ninove's station and station environment. Mr Bellot replied that there was a planning with the autumn of 2020 as the target date for making the parking pay. Moreover, in the medium term there should be a common vision of the station itself and the station environment in general. In the meantime, a steering committee was set up by SNCB together with the city administration to prepare a master plan and a feasibility study for the station environment. I would like to hear the progress of this steering committee, which includes representatives of SNCB and Infrabel. When is the implementation of this master plan planned? Have financial commitments been made between the city of Ninove, SNCB and Infrabel? If so, which one? What is the state of play of making the station parking in Ninove? What's the timing of that? Are there already plans by Infrabel to close the ground floor on the territory of the city of Ninove? What do these plans look like?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u40	Mr Roggeman, SNCB tells me to take part in a constructive dialogue with all the partners involved in order to come up with a master plan for the station environment. SNCB does indeed plan to make the two current station parkings paying. According to current planning, this will be early 2022. SNCB has regular talks with the city to conclude a cooperation on parkings. The installation of an access control on the current car parks will give a clear view of the need for parking spaces. This data is very important for the future master plan and the reconstruction of the station environment. Infrabel informs me that, in view of the master plan, it has proposed its vision and a first proposal of the target for the reflections to the city of Ninove. There have already been some discussions. Through a mobility study to be launched by an external study firm, together with the master plan for the station environment, the possible alternatives to the consideration will be further explored. This is done in consultation with all partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u41	Mr President, Minister, I hope that SNCB and Infrabel will deliver on their communication on cooperation with local government and that effective decisions will be taken in mutual agreement. Other things have happened there in the past. I hope that it will now be mutually agreed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u42	I have turned the next point, Minister, into a short topical debate in order to solve a technical problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u43	Mr President, Minister, I have tabled two questions on the same subject because the topicality of the Mobility Package has changed. I'll put them together. The European Mobility Package was approved for several months. This new legislation aims to combat unfair competition and social dumping in the European transport sector, with clearer rules on posting and better enforcement of cabotage legislation. A number of Eastern European Member States, including Poland and Hungary, and recently Malta, have gone to the European Court of Justice for a partial or total annulment of that legislation. Meanwhile, it has become known that Belgium will also join the case that Malta has brought against the new cabotage rules that will enter into force next year. These cabotage rules are very often abused today to allow foreign trucks, with drivers driving around at much lower wages and with much less social protection, to drive almost permanently in Belgium or in Western Europe at dumping rates. This has systematic cabotage and is often done by transporters from cheaper Member States. The Mobility Package provides a cooling-off period of four days to prevent this. It is no surprise that the cheaper Member States, the typical Member States where these foreign trucks are registered, such as Poland and Hungary, are defending this. Today they enjoy the benefits, but they never bear the burden. I am surprised that Belgium has joined the procedure initiated by Malta because I believe that this cooling off period in the package is absolutely necessary to prevent systematic cabotage by mailbox companies on our market. The argument that you and your colleagues in the Regions are using is the importance for Belgian transport companies. It is true that quite a few Belgian transport companies carry out cabotage journeys in France, but you have to look at the whole sector and see that our market is being flooded by foreign transporters today. In 2017, almost 14% of the national transports in Belgium were carried out by foreign caboteurs. This is the highest percentage across the European Union, well above the European average of 4.3 %. I sincerely wonder, Minister, what interest do you intend to make in bringing proceedings with Malta before the European Court of Justice against these new cabotage rules? I have the following questions. What is your argument for supporting Malta's case? You are talking in your press release about protectionist measures, which are contrary to the ambition of the mobility package. Can you explain that message? It seems to me to be rather a contradiction. In her press release, Flemish Minister of Mobility Lydia Peeters states that she draws the file, but it is of course not the Regions but only the Belgian State that can intervene with the European Court of Justice. What explanation will our country give there? What position will our country take there in concrete terms? My perhaps most important question is the following. What do you consider to be the possible consequences of the Belgian aid to the case? Are you aware of the history that preceded the establishment of the package as a political agreement between 27 EU Member States? Can you assure us that Belgium's support for this case cannot in any way jeopardise the other pillars of the Mobility Package? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u44	Mr. Bayet can't join us. On the other hand, Ms. Hanus asked to ask a question on this point.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u45	Mr President, Minister, you are aware that the Mobility Package is a set of guidelines to regulate road freight transport on the continent. As a Member of the European Parliament, my colleague Hugues Bayet had been actively involved in its drafting. This resulted in a text judged by all observers to be balanced between the interests of all, including workers, and the days of rest to which they are entitled. I regret that at the time Belgium abstained. With regard to a case involving essentially regional competences, Belgium decided, at the initiative of the Regions, to join the judicial procedure launched by Malta against the Mobility Package. It seems that it is cabotage rules that give rise to particular questions. Minister, what is the justification for this decision to join Malta's proceedings against the Mobility Package? What is the content of the submission filed by Belgium? How will Belgium's concerns about the cooling-off provision be presented? Can you assure us that Belgium now supports, for the rest, the whole Mobility Package which represents a balance between all the interests at stake?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u46	Mr Vandenbroucke, Mrs Hanus, I would first like to recall Belgium's active role – and I say it all the more easily since it was before my arrival as Minister – with the so-called countries of the Road Alliance in order to bring to a successful conclusion this European Mobility Package, which is finally the prospect of an effective fight against social dumping in the road sector – it induces unfair competition against Belgian transport companies – and against the inhuman working conditions to which the posted workers concerned are subjected, which often have to remain long weeks away from home. They live in their truck under unacceptable conditions in 2021. As Minister for Mobility, I look forward to this progress and look forward to investing in both the European and Belgian levels with a view to the concrete and effective translation of the Mobility Package's promises into our own legislation and in everyday life. This is not incompatible, it seems to me, with the decision taken by the regions responsible for this matter to join Malta's action against part of the Mobility Package, in this case the new cabotage rules which appear disproportionately protectionist and are likely to have a negative impact on Belgian transport undertakings active in cabotage in neighbouring countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u47	The dossier has been followed by Belgium since the start of negotiations on the Mobility Package in 2017. Belgium itself has played a very active role in reaching a good agreement in the fight against social dumping in the transport of goods by heavy goods vehicles. The position was always determined coherently and in line with the regions. This was also the case for aid to the Malta procedure. This aid was formally decided by the regions, which have been responsible for market access since the sixth state reform, through the normal procedure organised by the Foreign Affairs Office, the so-called DGE procedure. We support this decision taken by the Regions. The period of cooling off seems to us to be a protectionist measure which considerably limits the possibility of perfectly legitimate international activities for our companies, especially in the area of cabotage in neighbouring countries - Germany, the Netherlands and France - instead of promoting empty traffic on return. Thanks to the action of Belgium, the mobility package has been able to improve the working conditions of drivers: the application of posting in cabotage, the return of drivers to their homes, the return of lorries, a ban on weekly rest periods on board a cabin, etc. The cooling-off period therefore runs counter to the essence of the mobility package and, in reality, in view of the new rules that have been decided, is mainly intended to protect the national markets of certain countries. The limitation of cabotage rights can only be justified if we see a deterioration in working conditions and an increase in unfair competition, but we can hope that this will no longer be the case, thanks to the mobility package. Belgium intervenes only to support the action of another country. Our role will therefore be rather limited, depending on the development of the proceedings before the Court. The Belgian support procedure concerns, I insist, only the specific point of cabotage and does not affect the rest of the Mobility Package, to which we have contributed a great deal. Each piece of legislation in the Mobility Package is independent of the others. The challenge of a legal act does not affect the other legislative elements of the package. I would stress that the Belgian aid procedure relates only to the specific point of cabotage and does not affect the rest of the mobility package, for which we have contributed greatly to its success. I will of course remain attentive to the development of this issue in dialogue with the other European countries, with the federated entities but also with the companies concerned and the workers' representatives, the fight against social dumping being one of the priorities of my general policy note, as you know.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u48	Mr President, Minister, you rightly pointed out the historic role of Belgium in combating social dumping in the transport sector. You have quite correctly outlined the unacceptable circumstances in which transport personnel are being pushed today. That is why I honestly do not understand why you continue to talk about adapting cabotage rules in the Mobility Package as a protectionist measure. There is no country throughout the European Union where so many domestic transports are carried out by foreign companies from Poland and Hungary, with drivers who are shamefully underpaid, like Belgium, 14%. That cooling-off period will indeed have an impact on the business of a number of Belgian companies that drive in France. That's right. But one has to look at the whole picture. I see then that these new cabotage rules, which do not make cabotage impossible, are just preventing our market from being flooded by foreign commercial mailbox companies. So I don't follow the reasoning. I'm glad you agree with the importance of the Mobility Package. I also hope that the regions will see that. I particularly hope that, should Malta's case lead to a judge's ruling that cuts some of the Mobility Package away, the whole package will not fall apart if a house of cards falls apart, because then we are back to square one. Back to square one, it is back to the situation of more than ten years ago, because that package has been negotiated for so long. I look forward with you to the further progress of the procedure. In the meantime, I will try to understand why Belgium has joined.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u49	Minister, thank you for your answers. My group and I have taken note of this and I will pass it on to my colleague Hugues Bayet.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u50	Colleagues, is there anyone who would object to me asking the next question in the chair? [[No, no, ……]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u51	Mr Roggeman, Infrabel tells me that they assume that there are no direct implications. Within the framework of the Memorandum of Cooperation, a vision is being developed with the port of Antwerp, which will later be converted into a number of projects and solutions. What Infrabel learns from this can of course serve as a generic blueprint for other goods bundles and ports. This could therefore be applied later in Zeebrugge, provided that the local characteristics are taken into account. The signature of the MOC dates from the end of 2019. In the meantime, intensive consultations were held with the port and Railport on the priority areas to be addressed in order to achieve the shared ambition. To this end, the various partners have consulted very openly and without taboo. The period between the signature and today was rich in sharing experience and consultation with the various actors present in the port, with the aim of developing a railway vision and defining the levers to double the volume of rail transport by 2030. That is an important objective of the government. The intention is not to increase capacity directly in the short term, but rather to use it better, by implementing new operational rules, or better use of the ranger hill. This ranger hill can not only benefit the economic activity of the port, but can also play a role in the objective of doubling the volume of rail traffic. For each of the subjects a study was requested and a method agreed. The topics range from highly operational topics such as information exchange, location clauses and IT platforms, to the regulatory framework, financing of priority investments, the operation of the sad hill, locations with the most growth potential, etc. Very soon, tomorrow, the port of Antwerp and Infrabel will come out together and explain more details. I'll be there, too, with pleasure. Finally, your fourth question. This is in the vision phase. A roadmap will be drawn up by July 2021. As with your first question, this rail platform is being developed for the various actors in the port of Antwerp. It may then serve as a generic blueprint for other goods bundles and ports, for example Zeebrugge, as mentioned above.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u52	Minister, today the share of rail freight is only 18% of the total tonne-kilometres in the logistics chain. It is obvious that our ports as hubs of logistics mobility play an important role in increasing that share in the future. I look forward to increasing the planned capacity and aligning IT platforms between ports and Infrabel.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u53	Mr Minister, the liberalisation of rail transport is usually intended to open up public service transport, but the principle of open access has been in place since 1 January 2019. Rail companies are already able to offer their own rail passenger transport services, regardless of the public service. I would have liked to hear from you whether the government has already received requests from rail transport operators today regarding the organisation of private rail links for passenger transport? I would also like to make a few comments on this. Has Infrabel, in consultation with interested parties, already drawn up guidelines for coordination, as provided for in the European Directive 2016/2370? According to the government agreement and your policy statement, the extension of SNCB's public service mission must be accompanied by performance improvements. Which ones are they? When do you want to record it? Will this happen in the margins of renewal of the management contract or in another context? In the latter case, in what context? The presence of new private railway companies on the market also means, of course, that these companies must have access to the rail infrastructure. This concerns the stations and platforms, but also the possible installation of ticketing machines. In addition, there are the contact points and the parking infrastructure. In other words, it creates challenges for the entire reception infrastructure. That is why we have the European Directive 1371/2007. In what way is this implemented by the government?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u54	Infrabel informs me that until now the infrastructure manager has not received a request for capacity under the open access system for national rail passenger services. The article 7sexies to which you refer were transposed by article 26, 3 of the Rail Codex. Infrabel has established the so-called coordination mechanism, the plenary sessions of which have been launched since 4 November 2019. These have taken place a total of eight times. During the meetings, stakeholders discussed different themes, such as the evolution of the network statement, the coordination of works, capacity allocation, the performance of the system and the KPIs. The agenda of the meetings is always published on the Infrabel website and can be consulted by anyone. During the negotiation and development of the next contract, an incentive mechanism will be included, so that SNCB continuously improves its performance. This mechanism will include the following components: railway supply, reliability and punctuality, comfort, accessibility, intermodality, multimodality, safety, cooperation with stakeholders, effectiveness, productivity gains. The details of these performance improvements are, of course, part of the negotiation process. As far as integrated ticket sales are concerned, the regulation in question does not require the introduction of integrated ticket sales. As there is no real or potential competition for domestic passenger traffic so far, such an initiative is not on the agenda. The situation could evolve if capacity requests were to be made in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u55	Mr. President, Minister, on February 4, the construction of a bridge at Dinant Station was stopped. It appears that the urban planning file was incomplete and therefore Infrabel did not benefit from urban planning permits when the works began. Minister, could you please clarify whether all of the documents requested by the Walloon Region in Infrabel have now been provided? If so, why had they not been transmitted directly? Why did the work start when the permit had not been issued? When could the town planning permit be issued and the work resumed?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u56	Mr President, Mr Bombled, thank you for this Namibian dossier. Greetings. I think this is the first time I've answered one of your questions. I can confirm that now all the useful documents have been provided by Infrabel to the Walloon Region. The crisis of the covid has had repercussions everywhere, and in this case in practice also for the project officer. Unfortunately, he was affected, which caused a delay in the processing of the case. That is to be very precise and concrete! For the details of the phase of the work, it should be noted that the site began with work on the renewal of the wharf and the renewal of the switch. They are not subject to a licence. The work is then extended with bridge-related work, with the desire to be able to have at best a lay-off of track. This error has been acknowledged. The appeal of the residents concerned the decision of the Municipal Council of Dinant, in the framework of the decree "Carries". If it were to succeed, Infrabel would introduce a new licence application taking into account the remarks made by the Walloon Region. If the appeal in question did not succeed, and if the planning permit was issued, then it would be appropriate to plan a further decommissioning of lanes in order to access the central wharf. It will also be necessary to remobilize the contractor in charge of the construction site, who has distributed his teams and machines on other projects – always to be very concrete. For these different reasons, it is difficult to give a precise date for the possible resumption of this work at Dinant station.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u57	Minister, thank you for your answer. Infrabel's project involves both the construction of a bridge and the removal of the crossing from Sodar Street to Dinant. The project in question involves a modification of the municipal road. Indeed, the Dinant communal council agreed to this road change in December 2019. This decision was appealed by a riparian on 6 January 2020. As part of the investigation of this appeal, an application for a supplement was made by the Walloon administration to Infrabel on 21 January 2020. It took almost 14 months for the request to be acted upon. It is only now that the appeal procedure can resume. Meanwhile, the deadlines for the planning permit procedure have been suspended. In other words, it is the outcome of the appeal procedure on the road change that will allow the resumption of the urban planning file, provided that the decision on the road is confirmed. In addition, the work carried out, which was stopped, was the subject of a report. Consequently, the decision on the application for a permit cannot, under the Territorial Development Code, be notified until the infringement component is terminated, either by a judgment or by payment of a transaction. The health crisis invoked by Infrabel alone cannot justify a period of more than a year to provide documents that are quite basic. The responsibility for this situation, to say the least, lies fully with Infrabel.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u58	Minister, are you abandoning the plan to create a P+R in Viville under your legislature? If not, what initiatives do you take to avoid this abandonment in addition to your statements at meetings between the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg and Wallonia? What is the history of your work in implementing this project? What are your arguments? How do you see the implementation of the P+R within 10 years? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u59	Mr President, Mr Piedboeuf, Mr Arens, in general, I want to be able to find solutions to any question which arises in the field of mobility, in this case that of cross-border mobility between the province of Luxembourg and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, which is characterized every morning on weekdays by a large number of bottlings which cause delays, economic consequences and pollution. This is one of the many sensitive issues that I have inherited and that I have the will to resolve in the dialogue with stakeholders. You know that in this respect, a priority shared with my excellent Grand-Ducal colleague, François Bausch, is the finalization and modernisation of axis 3 and thus of line 162 between Brussels and Luxembourg, which is linked to the subject of your question. Offering a strong rail alternative to commuters is the first lever to activate to reduce automotive pressure and all its economic and environmental consequences. Whatever the solution, it seems logical to me to draw up it in the dialogue with my Luxembourg counterpart also concerned with these cross-border mobility issues. Mr Arens, we are thinking about how to better serve the province of Luxembourg towards the Grand Duchy because the demand is large and real on the part of the many cross-border daily commuters. The services are engaged in analysing the relevance and the most appropriate form in order to achieve this objective of enhancing mobility in the province of Luxembourg. This work is also being carried out with SNCB, which will soon provide us with objective and concrete elements of support for the decision on the Viville car park project that is very close to your heart. I do not have any new arguments to share with you since the answers to the previous parliamentary questions that you or other colleagues have put forward. Mr Piedboeuf, concerning the creation of a carpooling car park on the border area of Sterpenich, it is not entirely clear from my territorial or functional powers, which will not prevent me from approaching it on occasion with my Luxembourg colleague, on the understanding that my preference and my priority are to strengthen the railway links from Belgium to Luxembourg and, if possible, upstream of Sterpenich.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u60	Minister, thank you. It goes without saying that our priority is also the use of rail. I was following up on your response that there was no planned investment in Viville. It is clear that we must wait for the work to be completed on the important Brussels-Luxembourg axis. The park and carpool solution in Sterpenich was, of course, an interim solution. With regard to François Bausch and the CFL, I attended the CFL Board of Directors yesterday. On that occasion, I requested that it add a cross-border component to its strategic plan. I told him that Luxembourg was not an island and that it was therefore important to have a cross-border vision. As far as the connection between Sterpenich and Luxembourg is concerned, the CFL has expressed its readiness to assign buses which would bring motorists to Luxembourg. This is a solution that should not be overlooked pending the realization of the Park & Ride in Viville, a project that will, of course, be a priority when the line is finally on the rails, if I may say so, and which will allow an influx of cross-border travellers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u61	Minister, thank you for your answer. It is true that this Park & Ride is very urgent to improve mobility between Luxembourg and Arlon and, of course, the province of Luxembourg. If I understand you correctly, negotiations are planned with SNCB in the near future in your presence and in the presence of your Luxembourg counterpart. Therefore, I will ask you again, as soon as the situation has changed. But I am counting on you to ensure that this project can be carried out before the end of this legislature.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u62	SNCB currently accounts for some 46% of the total number of passengers prior to the crisis. Despite the current context, SNCB continues to strongly believe in the future of rail, and so do I. In a few years' time, she expects to reconnect to the number of travellers from 2019. Horizon 2030 is based on a growth rate of more than 15% of the number of passengers. From 23 March to 3 May 2020, SNCB launched a train service of national interest. Only essential movements were allowed. The number of rail passengers was only 10% of the number prior to the crisis. Together with the first relaxations, the number of passengers rose again to a maximum of 68 % at the beginning of October. In the deepest of the crisis, SNCB continued to deploy more trains for the essential professions compared to neighbouring countries and switched them back to maximum capacity more quickly, inter alia at the request of the government. SNCB therefore stresses that the crisis has no impact on the train supply. Since May last year there has been a maximum number of trains. In December, the train supply was even increased to reach an increase of 4.7 % after the first phase by the end of 2023. This corresponds to almost 4 million additional train kilometres or 1,000 trains per week. For 2020, SNCB expects an operational loss of around EUR 400 million, which was compensated by the Belgian Government last year to the tune of EUR 264 million on my request. Moreover, on 12 February this year, the Council of Ministers, on my initiative, adopted an additional draft royal decree. That KB provides for an additional compensation of EUR 148 million to cover the impact of the coronapandemic on SNCB's public service obligations accounts. The new exceptional aid covers the impact of the pandemic on public service contracts by the end of 2020 and the first quarter of 2021. The allowances depend on the full implementation by SNCB of its transport plan in 2021.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u63	Thank you for the amount of information you have given me, Minister. Your answer was very interesting, but I note that there is still a loss. Despite public compensation, the lower revenues are considerable. SNCB had expected more revenue for the coronavirus outbreak, of course. These would contribute to the expansion of supply in December 2020, December 2021 and December 2022. It was a three-step extension of the transport plan, but I note that this does not call into question these extensions. We will see exactly how they will be financed. With a rapid increase in the number of passengers, much can of course happen.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u64	Mr President, my question No. 55015404C may be converted into a written question if the Minister gives me the prepared answer in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u65	I'll do that as soon as I can, by e-mail.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u66	Mr Minister, the multi-purpose workshop of SNCB Melle has been fully operational since 2019 and is located in a highly urbanised area. The figures show that there is a great deal of activity in this workshop. Each year about 750 locomotives, 1,000 motor sets and 1,500 wagons are maintained. It goes without saying that such a busy workshop creates some nuisance for residents in the form of noise or light pollution. Has SNCB already received any complaints of nuisance caused by activities in SNCB's multi-purpose workshop in Melle? If so, how many? How is this handled? What is the complaint policy in this respect? Is it true that on this site the outdoor lights stay on all night? If so, what is the purpose of this? How many diesel locomotives keep running at night on the premises of the workshop? What is the purpose of this practice? Are you, as an ecologist, in favour of continuously burning fossil fuel without any apparent added value? Will SNCB do anything to prevent the nuisance for residents? It is also generally seen that it is becoming increasingly important for companies with industrial activities to continuously proactively communicate with local residents and local authorities and to develop environmental management that ensures contacts and good relations with stakeholders. What's your vision as a custody minister about that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u67	SNCB sometimes receives complaints from cities and municipalities, especially where the railway bundles are located. These complaints are always analysed in depth internally and then followed, if possible, appropriate measures to mitigate this nuisance. SNCB is always trying to have a good understanding with local residents and public authorities. In particular for the workshop in Melle, she has actively and frequently ensured the necessary contacts and exchanges with the parties concerned from the outset. SNCB understands that it is a difficult problem. Local authorities are also hearing sighs from certain local residents who are unable to reconcile themselves with the operation of a production workshop in their surroundings. A number of local residents continue to repeat their complaints, even though they appear to be largely unfounded after evaluation. In order to ensure the operational security of train traffic in the morning, certain trains need to be started well in advance. For example, motor cars must be started early in the morning for the first train of the day. For technical reasons, motor vehicles need to run some time for, among other things, air pressure production. It also happens that the depanners have to carry out a technical investigation early in the morning. They can only do this by running the engine of the locomotive. Starting a train isn't the same as a car. This is gonna take a whole process. For safety reasons, a number of tests must always be carried out before departure from the bundle. For this reason, for example, trains often have to be started a long time before departure. All SNCB employees are sensitised to keep this start-up period as short as possible in order to avoid unnecessary waste of energy and also to minimise noise pollution. During certain periods, such as the freezing service, condensation service, high heat periods, trains must be ventilated to a maximum to ensure the cooling of the steering electronics and to ensure safe and smooth train traffic. Unfortunately, this ventilation also causes some noise. SNCB is taking various initiatives to minimise the noise pollution of train sets in railway bundles and is making a great deal of efforts to increase energy efficiency and reduce CO2 emissions. For example, if possible, train orders are placed further away from the residence, the night train service is rearranged to minimise the inconvenience, diesel trains are preferably no longer installed near residential areas, but only electric trains and train drivers are continuously sensitised so that the engines of the train do not run unnecessarily. SNCB's supervisory staff are closely monitoring this. The measures vary per workshop, but are always tailored to the workshop and the environment. For example, for the PW Melle green beers with planting around the workshop were constructed as visual green separation and to reduce noise. Furthermore, the workshops were equipped with sound-insulating gates and sound-insulating materials were also used in the construction. The number of rangers is also reduced as much as possible. Ranger locomotives shall be shut down as soon as possible after use. Trains are also mainly arranged with (...) vehicles instead of ranger locomotives. As far as possible, out-of-feed stations shall be used to keep trains at operating temperature. In the middle of the site lies a buffer pond to collect the water in the event of prolonged precipitation. Due to the different railway activities in the workplace, some noise is inevitable. There are always exceptions which require engines to continue running, to detect defects or to test the traction of the trains. The new train equipment is becoming quieter and more energy efficient, which will also reduce noise pollution for residents in the future. For example, in the medium term, on certain lines, such as lines 15 and 19, diesel cars of the type MW41 are replaced by electric trains. SNCB also pays a great deal of attention to sustainability. In the renewal of the current workshops, even better sound-insulating materials are used. In addition, SNCB will further reduce the number of yard movements. Ranger locomotives will be shut down as soon as possible after use and trains will be further ranked with fair wood vehicles instead of ranger locomotives. As has already been said, even more use will be made of out-of-feed stations to keep trains at operating temperature.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u68	Thank you, Minister, for the detailed answer and I take note of the measures which SNCB intends to take. You say that some residents cannot reconcile themselves with business and that many complaints are unfounded. I hope this does not mean that SNCB ignores complaints from certain residents. That would be a pity, because it is a fact that whoever does not live in the area will always have an incomplete view of the impact of the work on the environment. I believe that consultation with local authorities is also crucial in this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u69	Mr President, Mr Parent, I thank you for your question, which allows me to recall once again my vision of the station of the future. The station of the future must be a multimodal node that combines different public and shared means of transport, in which one can move quickly and easily from one mode of transport to another via integrated timetables. Initiatives such as Brupass and Brupass XL already facilitate interaction and transition from one mode of transport to another. The Taxistop project is part of this vision. Taxistop is an ASBL on the initiative of several projects, some commercial, shared mobility (Carpool, Cozywheels, Cambio) and wants, through its concrete services, to change behaviors. My Brussels counterpart, Elke Van den Brandt, and I were able to find out at the Shared Mobility Rocks event organized by Taxistop and Autodelen on March 3. Besides, my firm recently met Taxistop. My employees were able to discuss the role of the stations in relation to the concept of MOB points that this ASBL promotes in the three regions. My will is to integrate as many local or regional actors as possible in order to identify their specific needs. Indeed, shared car solutions are multiple and sometimes local (Cambio, Wibee, Battmobiel) just like shared bikes (Blue-bike, Billy bike, Lime or others). In this context, I want to play a facilitating role so that all actors can discuss and share good practices. In addition to this facilitating role, the federal government can foster dialogue and solutions with the Regions. This dialogue takes place within the Interministerial Conference Mobility. The last ICD Mobility was held on March 9, 2021, and we discussed, among other things, the development of an integrated schedule system. We have agreed that SNCB will hold bilateral technical meetings with the regional transport companies as early as June, so that it can anticipate the time changes that will come into force in December and ensure better hourly coordination between the different transport companies, which would be a first step towards real time integration, which is the final objective but is – I am aware of it but I am looking forward to it with great will – a large-scale project that will depend on many factors including the content of the future public service contract on which we are working with vigour and enthusiasm.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u70	Minister, thank you for your answers. In view of the increase in CO2 emissions in the transport sector, it is important to develop alternatives, both in terms of public transport and mulimodality for our citizens. Multimodality has been discussed for a long time. It's a slow development. I am pleased that Europe can support the Regions in their project on this subject and the role you want to support – as you have pointed out – as facilitator in this dossier. It is extremely important that all levels of government come together to work on these issues. Belgians move everywhere. I think the current debates have reminded us again. We therefore need consistency. And, beyond Belgian territory, I think it would also be interesting to be able to discuss with our border counterparts so that this coherence can also, at some point, expand once our society is deconfined.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u71	Question No 55015208C by Mr Parent is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u72	Mr President, Mr Vandenbroucke, Article 8.3 prohibits driving any vehicle, whether motorized or not, when there is no physical fitness or knowledge required. In addition, the second paragraph of that Article lays down that each driver is always able to carry out all necessary driving movements and to have his or her riding animal or vehicle in his or her hand. This could involve eating, drinking, smoking, shaving, having a dog on the lap and so on. I leave other examples to your imagination. Any explanation is important. These activities are prohibited only if they ensure that the driver is unable to carry out all the necessary driving movements and have his vehicle properly in hand. In the case of judicial proceedings, this must be demonstrated by the minutes. This can be done, for example, by establishing a low steering resistance of the driver or by the fact that the driver drives remarkably slowly or over a very long period of time on the middle lane. Article 8.4 prohibits the driver from using a portable telephone which he controls. After all, that is quite dangerous. A conviction is therefore possible only by demonstrating that a driver is hand-operated, except in the case of the reflection, the time needed for the boarding or exit of passengers or the loading and unloading of goods and parking. Therefore, the verbalising agent must not demonstrate that the driver was unable to carry out all the necessary driving movements, whether his riding animal or vehicle was not in good control. Operating a smartphone in a smartphone holder by drivers, whether motorized or not, falls within the scope of Article 8.3. This can only be done if the driver can carry out all the necessary driving movements and keeps his vehicle in good control. If a police officer finds that a driver is operating his or her smartphone and loses his or her stability, for example, action may be taken. As for your second question, I am aware of a number of studies on the use of the mobile phone while driving, but none of them were carried out specifically for cyclists. There are numerous studies that investigate the use of a mobile phone or smartphone while driving. Most of them investigate cases where the driver holds the device in his hand. The use of a smartphone in a holder is similar to the use of a built-in infotainment system in a car. Every time the driver is busy with the system instead of observing the environment, the risk of an accident increases. However, the degree of risk increase depends on the nature of the driver's activity. For example, tracking the auditory signals of a navigation app is less distracting than reading or writing text messages with the smartphone, in other words texting.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u73	Mr President, Minister, I would like to thank you for your comprehensive answer, which I will have to read again in detail, in order to fully understand its finesses. Thank you, however. We will certainly come back to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u74	Ladies and gentlemen, if this question seems a little cynical or sarcastic today, please excuse me, but it was tabled some time ago. It is also a follow-up question to a question to Minister Bellot at the beginning of the legislature. I refer to its written version.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u75	Mr De Spiegeleer, SNCB informs me that in preparing each new transport plan a selection is made of the projects to be carried out. This is done on the basis of strategic criteria, including stakeholder input, customer and potential customer queries, infrastructure availability and capacity, and financial and operational capabilities. The train is a means of mass transport in which SNCB tries to capture the large flows of passengers. Ghent-Sint-Pieters and Denderleeuw are indeed the two largest stations in East Flanders as regards the number of train passengers. The journeys between these two stations represent only 1.6 % of the total number of train passengers of these two stations. The train connection Denderleeuw-Gent has a local interest, especially the operation of the intermediate stations. Only 9% of train passengers from Denderleeuw have Ghent, Bruges or Ostend as their destination. Conversely, less than 1% of train passengers travel from Ghent to Denderleeuw. From Ostend and Bruges, the figure is 0.2 %. Because the train movements from the Denderstreek to Ghent, as you rightly point out, are mainly carried out by employees and students, SNCB responds to this by offering two fast peak hour trains on working days in the morning and in the evening. At other times, when demand is much lower, passengers can use the half-hour service between Denderleeuw and Ghent via Aalst. SNCB informs me that at the moment it sees no need to offer fast trains throughout the day between Denderleeuw and Ghent.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u76	Minister, I have the answer to the question I asked Mr Bellot at the time, and I find it remarkable that that answer to the letter is identical to the one you are giving. That is not, of course, a reproach to you, because you will receive that reply from the SNCB services. I find it strange that, in view of the changes in commuting and traffic flows, two years later, SNCB still gives the same answer with the same motivation and explanation to you and to me, a representative from the Dender region in South-East Flanders, where people have been asking for a much longer period of time for better access to Ghent, Bruges and the coast. As I said at the time, Minister Bellot, SNCB says that there are few commuters in that direction. Of course there are few, because the offer is very bad and very slow. If you improve the facilities, more use will be made of them. That's the obvious self. Okay, I'm a little disappointed. I regret that, but once again: it is a pity, first of all, that SNCB has not yet come to a moving conclusion in those two years.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u77	SNCB customer service received 5 noise complaints in 2018 and 17 in 2019. They were all answered within the deadlines. In all cases, SNCB's rolling stock complied with the European technical specification. The number of complaint forms directly filled in on the Infrabel website was 244 in 2018 and 206 in 2019. None of these complaints forms are classified without consequence. Each complaint shall be examined and answered in the light of the specific situation. SNCB informs me that it cannot say whether the complaints come from a group or from a government because they are registered on the basis of the complainant's name and first name. As regards the breakdown of noise by province, it should be noted that SNCB's rolling stock runs all over the country. The trains regularly cross several provinces by route, which is good, without any changes to the equipment on the way. Applications or complaints from groups or local authorities come to Infrabel in different ways, such as by letter, official requests, questions during round tables etc. Therefore, it is not possible to list all complaints exhaustively. However, each of these applications was examined and answered on the basis of the specific situation. The railway network has traditionally been divided into areas whose borders do not coincide with the provincial borders. Therefore, it is not possible for Infrabel to provide detailed statistics per province.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u78	Thank you for your comprehensive answer. I am waiting for the written report to take a closer look at everything.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u79	The budget foreseen in the multi-annual strategic investment plan for completing the GEN project is approximately EUR 136.6 million. The beautification works are performed at the stations of De Hoek, Groenendaal, Holleken, Linkebeek, Sint-Genesius-Rode, Braine-Alliance, Braine L'Alleud, Genval, La Hulpe, Lillois, Louvain-La-Neuve, Nivelles, Ottignies, Profondsart, Rixensart, Waterloo, Anderlecht, Sint-Agatha-Berchem, Bosvoorde, Haren-Zuid, Moensberg, Sint-Job, Ukkel-Stalle and Watermael. It concerns mainly the finishing and complete equipment of the mentioned stations on lines 124 and 161, as well as the new station of Anderlecht on line 50A opened on 13 December and the finishing of Haren-Zuid on line 36.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u80	As with my previous question, Minister, I will look at the answer in the written report from a closer perspective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u81	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u82	Minister, this is a project that dates back a dozen years and has been implemented four years ago, with many obstacles. The project started a little more than a year ago in March 2020, following the positive opinion of the Wallonia Commercial Administration after an initial appeal by Infrabel. With an opening scheduled for the end of April, this mall must create between 120 and 150 jobs in a region you know well and where, unfortunately, the unemployment rate is very high. This first remedy cited the danger of the crossing at the entrance to the future commercial site. I don't know if you know the place, but you're familiar with the area. This crossing has been in existence for several decades and provides access to several shops. It is also the only way to reach a career in the back. The mall will therefore be set up in this site, in a broad sense. A solution was found by signing an agreement between La Couvinoise, Sofico, the City of Couvin and Infrabel in February 2020, so a little over a year ago. The terms of the convention stipulate that La Couvinoise agrees to assume a maximum of 200 000 euros for the security of the crossing, the rest being the responsibility of the public. The first appeal was withdrawn. The proponent has invested ten times as much. We are talking about two million euros in urban charges for the TEC station, the SNCB station, a municipal road and other elements. I'm not going to go into the details of the file so I won't be too long. I would simply say that in February 2021 La Couvinoise obtained an amending permit for various work that did not concern the crossing. Surprised! Last March, Infrabel filed a second appeal against the amending permit. This remedy is surprising because Infrabel had given an unconditional favourable opinion in the context of the procedure of this permit which, I repeat, did not concern the crossing. Of course, I fully understand Infrabel's willingness to secure sites and crossings. This has been discussed at length in our committee. It's a general objective. But I think that here, without going into detail and knowing the content of the various contacts, I have the impression, minister, that we are in a kind of blocking or dialogue of the deaf between the different parties. We must therefore try to get out of it from the top and re-establish a genuine dialogue that focuses on solutions rather than unilateral initiatives. Minister, what is your reading of the file and what solution can we bring to this situation to ensure mobility on this space linking Couvin's entry (the N5) to this developing commercial space?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u83	Mr. Delizée, this is the answer given on this file by Infrabel. Infrabel's appeal is an extension of the logic of the company's formal opinion in the pre-licensing process. Indeed, the infrastructure manager had issued a favourable but conditional opinion. Following an administrative error, the Walloon Region cites in the granting of the permit Infrabel's favourable opinion, but without mentioning the conditions related to it, hence the misunderstanding and subsequently the action brought. Infrabel is not at all opposed to the project, but wishes that the conditions issued as part of its prior notice be included in the permit. In particular, the amending permit provides for the establishment of a new distribution wharf in the vicinity of the Infrabel estate and at a location where roads are small and stale, which is precisely the subject of application No. 9. This will inevitably lead to vehicle manoeuvres in the immediate vicinity of Infrabel's tracks and fences. The collision of these lines may lead to a commitment of the gauge of the tracks with all the consequences that this is likely to lead to on this important line Charleroi-Couvin. Infrabel, however, wants to be constructive and therefore does not oppose the project, but simply calls for a mechanism to protect its fences against possible awkward manoeuvres and thus avoid any safety problems. This remedy is therefore unrelated to the issue of the crossing. It seems to me that, on the basis of the elements of the answer that I have received, an amicable solution is possible in this case, without going too far in view of the fact that it is the day-to-day management of the company and not that of the minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u84	Minister, having not attended these meetings and not knowing the details, if your conclusion is that an amicable solution is possible, that is in line with what I wish and ask. The information I have in return is really the surprise of this second recourse. The appeal is quite recent because it dates from a month ago, when there was a six-month time limit for making adjustments and adjustments. I will conclude by saying that it is imperative that the dialogue be resumed between the three parties, Infrabel, the promoter and the city of Couvin – which is concerned because this is an important access route – so that this solution can really be implemented. If that's not the case, I'll allow myself to come back to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u85	Mr Roggeman, one year after the start of the corona crisis, the vaccination campaign now gives hope for a spring and a summer with more social contacts and freedom. I am pleased that SNCB, as a public service provider, is also contributing to the success of the vaccination campaign. Everyone can take the train for free to be vaccinated. This solidarity action clearly demonstrates the social role and importance of public transport for our mobility. This binding social role makes SNCB hard with this fine solidarity action of public service. It is not yet clear how many people will make use of it. Any person we can help to get vaccinated in that way means one step closer to a better vaccinated and thus a healthier and freer country. SNCB offers the free train ticket from Sunday 21 March to those who have to move to and from a vaccination centre. The ticket can be requested for both the first and second shots via the SNCB's website or app, or at a ticket machine or at the ticket counter in the station. The free train ticket is a return ticket, valid in second class only on the day of vaccination. If you wish to use the ticket, you will be asked to show it spontaneously to the train guide, together with the invitation or confirmation of the appointment for the vaccination. The risk of abuse is therefore limited.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u86	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u87	Mr President, Minister, the question of the abolition of ground-level rail crossings has already been raised in this committee. Article 38 of Infrabel's management contract states: "Infrabel ensures appropriate passages for cyclists in the elimination of consideration, if the prior public investigation has shown that there is sufficient demand for it." During the hearing in the Committee on Mobility of 10 March 2021, including representatives of Infrabel, Infrabel stated that around 25 reflections per year will be lifted. Should Article 38 of the management contract be interpreted in such a way that a public investigation is always required before a railway crossing can be abolished? How many abolitions of ground-based considerations have actually been accompanied by a public investigation in recent years? How many considerations were abolished without public investigation? Does Infrabel violate the management contract if a transfer is concluded without public investigation and therefore without the possibility of establishing whether there is a demand for alternative bicycle connections, as provided for in Article 38 of the same management contract? Do you, as a guardian minister, agree with the interpretation that Infrabel gives to the case? Do you also consider that there is not every time a public investigation is needed when lifting a ground-floor crossing? Will you also register a provision like this in the new management contract with Infrabel or do you plan any adjustments in that respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u88	Mr President, Mr Roggeman, Infrabel informs me that a public investigation is required in the following cases. That is, firstly, when a spatial plan is drawn up and, secondly, when an environmental permit is applied for. It is rather an exception that a crossing can still be abolished. Even when no formal public investigation is required, an agreement is still sought in practice with the city or municipality. Infrabel will abolish a road pass once there is an agreement. Abandonment of a road has little chance of success if there is no support from the municipality or city and if it is not in line with the mobility plans of the municipality, region or province. If a municipal road has to be adapted or changed in this context, that adjustment should also be granted by the municipal council. To this end, an agreement in principle on abolition is initially requested at the ship's college. During the building application procedure an opinion or agreement will also be requested from the city council. As far as your last question is concerned, I can tell you that the procedure for abolishing the consideration should be reviewed in a broader review of the regulation of the consideration. I have therefore asked my administration to carry out an analysis of how the regulation could be revised around consideration.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u89	Thank you, Minister, for this information. I fully agree with the latter. It is an important step to reform the regulatory framework. Pending possible future changes, it is also important to clarify the existing rules. In that sense, I was disappointed that you could not answer the question of how to interpret Article 38. To what extent is a public investigation necessary in all circumstances? Unfortunately, I have not heard an answer to that. Actually, it is also a question to which the answer can be given by the FOD rather than by Infrabel himself. It is, after all, a party involved. You give the version of the facts as delivered to you by Infrabel. But the fact that they do not address this issue strengthens me in the suspicion that we must interpret the article in a different way than the interpretation given to it by Infrabel in the Committee of 10 March 2021, namely that there is a need for an effective public investigation. I would have liked to have seen that clarified, but unfortunately that did not work. I will therefore re-examine the matter and ask an explicit question about the position of the FPS Mobility on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u90	Questions Nos 55015360C and 55015362C by Mrs Kim Buyst are postponed. Question No 55015404C by Mr Jef Van den Bergh and questions No 55015437C and No 55015440C by Mr Vincent Scourneau are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u91	Mrs Vindevoghel, railways, like all companies, are subject to the threat of cyber attacks and in particular ransomware. In the latter case, hackers abuse a vulnerability in companies' computer systems to break into their network. Infrabel and SNCB, as providers of essential services, are subject to the obligations of the NIS Act of 7 April 2019. That law imposes a number of security obligations on the operators of essential services. Both Infrabel and SNCB are constantly working to improve all their computer networks to address these vulnerabilities. For example, Infrabel migrated its most critical systems for the safety of the rail network to computer networks with increased security. Most cyber security measures are implemented during the renewal of the information systems and networks. It is therefore not easy to isolate these costs from the costs associated with renewing the systems themselves. There is no specific protocol for a ransomware attack for the entire public railway sector. Each company has drawn up its own protocols for crisis management. For further information on SNCB, please refer to the answer to the written question No. Mr Roggeman. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Roggeman on his excellent report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u92	I'll check it out. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u93	Mr President, Mrs Verhaert, on weekdays the IC trains between Antwerp and Hamant will be running with M5 double-deck trains during the peak, accounting for about 40% of trains. For the rest with AR41 motor cars, accounting for about 60% of trains. During the weekends the offer will be complete with AR41 motor cars. The P-trains to and from Brussels are composed of a locomotive T27 and M4 vehicles. SNCB informs me that, unless counter-reported by the infrastructure manager, the stops in Bouwel and Kessel on the P-train will be maintained. The inflow of M7 carriages will have no impact on this line. The railway infrastructure in Hamant was adapted in autumn 2020 through the removal of the technical limitation to introduce longer trains with Hamant as their origin or destination. It was about the transfer of a switch. The extension of the platform was estimated today to be completed in 2022. A longer train can thus drive through the adapted infrastructure to Hamont. As long as the platform is not extended, passengers to Hamont cannot take their seats in the last carriages of a long train.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u94	Minister, I find your answer disappointing. Despite the many questions in this committee, the M4 vehicles continue to run on these lines. I also hear you say that the M7 vehicles do not improve the connection with the Kempen. That is, of course, deeply regrettable. With many Kempen colleagues, we will continue to insist on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u95	The mentioned activities are a matter for the Flemish Waterweg. I'm not authorized to do that. By building the new bridge and the tracks before and behind the bridge next to the existing bridge, we can limit the impact, both for travellers and for freight. A total line break of four days is planned to make some rail connections before and after the bridge. In addition, other connections and transformations are realized during weeknights and on several weekends. That work involves a total interruption of the line. There will be replacement bus services. The movement of goods to and from line 207 will take place between two phases in two weeks on a reverse track from the exchange complex to the Albert Canal branch. Two weeks ago, an explanation was given to rail freight companies. They were satisfied with the limited impact. All total line interruptions are planned sufficiently well in advance in accordance with European and national rules. There'll be information sessions, too. As many measures as possible are considered to reduce the impact. That's what I just said. As far as your last question is concerned, I do not know at the moment any plans in this direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u96	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The EESC welcomes the fact that the impact of the work is limited. The last question was the most important to me, because it would mean a significant opening up of freight transport in our region. It's about a mile of track. I will continue to ask questions about this. I therefore hope that there will be a positive response.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u97	Mrs Verhaert, SNCB informs me that its vending machines have had remote assistance for some time now. SNCB also communicates this to customers and stakeholders such as the mayors. In summary, the customer calls the number on the vending machine and then the sales staff can take over the purchase of the ticket until the time of payment. The new vending machines will offer a more modern and intuitive interface to customers. The screens will also be of a new generation. SNCB expects them to be able to be rolled out by 2023 at the earliest. It is not yet clear where the first vending machines will be. I hope that SNCB will follow a certain logic.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u98	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. So it's gonna take some time until 2023. In the meantime, the idea of train points could bring enormous added value. I hope that you will be able to bring this up with SNCB, so that the rail system becomes more attractive, both for the local trader and for the traveller and for SNCB itself, and so that people can be helped in this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u99	Mr President, Mr Roggeman, I too should like to apologise for the absence of an answer to your written question. I will have the figures you want in your first and fourth questions delivered in writing. The creation of the Infrabel Academy is not a new initiative. The specificity of the Infrabel Academy is that it is aimed at students who can be trained in 40 different professions in the long term. That goes from the railway manager to the rail traffic controller in signal houses or welder. Infrabel wants not only to train new employees, but also to invest in the staff to further develop their competence. HR Rail stimulates the training of its staff. This is done from a performer management within the framework of the operational objectives or individual development objectives of each member of staff. A training pathway is provided for each new colleague within HR Rail and for those colleagues who change jobs internally. Since 2019, a number of selection steps have been done online, in particular testing and video calls. Since March 2020, the full selection is done online. During the corona period, a large number of courses take place online only through different forms of learning. The directors of SNCB and Infrabel are part of the Executive Committee of their entity and are thus involved in the definition of their entity's strategic objectives. The objectives for HR Rail, which should be in line with the strategic objectives of the entities, are the subject of an annual discussion within the coordination committee in which the three entities consult. Following this discussion, the objectives of HR Rail are presented to the Management Board of HRI, which includes the CEOs of SNCB and Infrabel. In this way, the HR strategy is developed coherently. Then I come to your seventh question. The general figures for the operation of the three companies are available in the respective annual reports. (...)the staff of the Belgian railways provide very clearly for the activities and assignments of HR Rail, as well as for the activities and assignments of SNCB and Infrabel in the field of HR policy. I have no intention of doing that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u100	I understand, Minister, that part of the answer, with regard to the figures, will follow in writing. I'm looking forward to that. With regard to the last point, you are right, the legislation does indeed provide for separate tasks within the HR policy for the three companies: SNCB, Infrabel and HR Rail. That's what the law says. It is a legislative fault that there are three HR services for two companies. That doesn't exist anywhere else in my knowledge. In that sense, I regret that you say that you do not want to change anything. After all, that could be a lot more efficient.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u101	The next item is Mr Roggeman's question on trade union premiums for railways.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u102	Mr President, I have now received a written answer to that question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u103	SNCB informs me of the following. According to the hypothesis based on capacity utilisation and the evolution of sales, the breakdown of the number of journeys with the Hello Belgium Railpass is as follows. I have a table of published journeys in October, November and December. It's 7,134 rides, same for the three months. The journeys used are divided as follows: in October 2.275, in November 2.055, and in December 2.144. That's a total of 6,473. These figures are based on the monthly customer searches for the effective use of their Hello Belgium Railpass. The methodology used for these surveys, including the size of the steel, ensures a statistically representative result. It's premature to make an analysis now. In the coming weeks, SNCB will give me an evaluation of the Hello Belgium Pass.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u104	Thank you, Minister, for the figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u105	Maybe it would be easier if I gave you the percentages. In October the figure was 32 %, in November the figure was 29 % and in December the figure was 30 %. Almost a third of the rides were therefore done effectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u106	Thank you for this addition, Minister. It is remarkable to note that in these three months 70% of the free journeys have remained in the slide. A large part of the offer was therefore not consumed. Of course, that has to do with the corona conditions. But it also puts us on the ground. At the launch, the praise trumpet was knocked off and the great success of the measure was mentioned. But when we look at the results, it turns out to be different. Approximately 70% has not been used. At the time of the decision to divide the Railpass there was also corona in the country, so the results were not entirely unforeseen.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u107	Thank you very much for your reply, Minister. I don't think anyone thought the corona crisis would last that long. Unfortunately, she's still not finished. This obviously has an impact on the use of the free rail pass. You also said that we still have to wait for the data from the evaluation. You've requested an investigation. I'll wait for that. In the future, hopefully, I will get an answer to my questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u108	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mr Roggeman's 55015617C and 43 55015619C have been converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u109	Mr Roggeman, as SNCB announced in its press release of 18 January, this decision fits in with its strategy for the new mobile app. For the first time, the so-called multi's are also digitally filling in the passes for 10 train journeys. Instead of filling in the pass line per line, the traveller can now easily and quickly activate a journey on the smartphone and show it to the train guide from a distance. With the digital version of the filling-in passes, SNCB wants to offer user-friendly train tickets that are always available to customers and which are also better from a sanitary point of view. Digital tickets are cheaper for the company and therefore also for the user. It is also important for me to maintain non-digital tickets at an attractive rate, with a view to accessibility for all target groups. For more elements of my vision of ticket policy, please refer to the topical debate on 10 February in this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u110	Minister, your answer is incredibly concise. You are referring to the topical and urgent debate. I myself would like to refer to the debate we held in committee last week in the context of the debates on the proposals on public transport accessibility. It is true that the tariff change also has implications for people with motor or visual disabilities. Not everyone has equal easy access to digital sales channels. People with disabilities sometimes have problems with this. Civil society has also given signals that this could discriminate against this part of the customer base. I therefore believe that it is entirely right that we included in last week's resolution a question to the government to make an adjustment on this point to ensure that discrimination is eliminated. I see you nodding. I hope that this will also be included in the price setting of SNCB.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u111	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Raskin's 55015612C was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u112	Mr Roggeman, in 2020, Infrabel addressed some 220 questions and complaints about noise from rail traffic. In previous years, that figure was in the same order of magnitude. Each complaint shall be examined and answered in the light of the specific situation. The SNCB customer service received 5 noise complaints in 2018 and 17 in 2019, all of which were dealt with within the deadlines. The cause of noise is very diverse, which makes it difficult to identify trends. In the analysis of complaints, the intensity of train traffic, distance to housing and the characteristics of the infrastructure and rolling stock are analysed. The tracks shall be placed when crossing beams or rails are renewed if the cross beams are 20 years or older and the beams have not been replaced during that period and no renewal of the cross beams is planned in the next 10 years. I will provide the committee secretariat with a map of the locations that have been equipped with low-noise tracks in recent years, as well as a map of the planned placements. The tracks are placed to protect the concrete sleepers, to ensure better stability of the track and to reduce noise. Separate cost prices of the placements are not available. They are integrated into the totality of the works. Finally, the regional authorities draw up action plans in accordance with the European Directive on the evaluation and management of environmental noise and Infrabel is actively involved in the measures envisaged herein, including the placement of the tracks. The regional authorities analyse the impact of these action plans. According to Infrabel calculations, the track pads contribute to a reduction in the noise level from 2.5 to 4 decibels for speeds between 50 and 250 km per hour.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u113	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u114	Mr Roggeman, SNCB informs me that a detailed overview per railway line, as you ask, is not available. The annual census of the number of departing and departing passengers per stop can be found on the SNCB website. I consider this connection to be important. The so-called axis 3 connects Brussels to the border with the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. The axis consists of the line 161 from the Louvain-la-Neuve branch to Namur and the line 162 from Namur to the Luxembourg border. Then the axis continues to the Luxembourg City station, then to Strasbourg and Basel, from which it continues to Milan. The axis is therefore of great strategic importance, because it places Belgium in the heart of Europe, it connects the various administrative capitals of the European Union and connects it to the rail networks in the southern countries. The programme for the modernisation of the axis contains three main objectives: firstly, the replacement of all obsolete rail equipment, including overhead lines and tracks; secondly, the complete refurbishing of large stations and the increase of platforms at the stops; and thirdly, the increase of the reference speed on the two lines from 130 kilometres per hour to 160 kilometres per hour. The amount of EUR 70 million will not be sufficient. My Luxembourg colleague, François Bausch, is also asking for the modernisation of the link. In January 2021, we sent a letter together to the European Commission asking for European support. In its reply of 10 March, the Commission replied to my Luxembourg colleague and myself that it also considered the line essential. The Commission proposes to organise a working group to take stock of the current situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u115	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u116	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Raskin's 55015651C and Mr Raskin's 55015684C were postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u117	Mr Roggeman, given the documentary nature of your first three questions, I will have the figures you asked for delivered in writing. For your fourth question, please refer to my colleague from the Interior, Annelies Verlinden. SNCB, as a public service, has been involved in the development of social missions in stations for many years. Although accepting passive begging, she promotes prevention, dialogue and cooperation with the social sector of cities and municipalities, in particular through her field experts. The approach is different when actively begging and especially when handing out papers on trains. The Corporate Security Service ensures that the phenomenon of aggressive begging is followed by regular analyses. The main goal is to define sensitive places and times on the basis of reports received by the Security Operations Center from staff and travellers. On the basis of these analyses, various actions are carried out on sensitive lines and in stations, with and without police services. The parquet will also be informed of this. Securail agents report any incident of illegal begging to the Security Operations Center and file a report under the railway police law. The problem of active begging arises mainly in trains and is clearly related to organized criminal gangs. Although it takes place on the railway infrastructure, it goes beyond Mobility and SNCB. In general, it is the responsibility of the railway police and the judiciary. Cooperation with the Interior and Justice is therefore necessary. Neither SNCB nor myself have police figures or feedback on prosecutions by the prosecutors.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u118	Thank you for your reply, Minister. I look forward to the numbers. It is true that this, too, is an interdisciplinary issue and that cooperation with the Interior is needed. I am pleased to hear that both Securail and the Security Operations Center are actively working on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u119	Questions Nos 55015763C and 55015764C by Mrs Mélissa Hanus were postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u120	Mr President, Mr Roggeman, you may be disappointed by my reply. I refer to the answer to the questions put together by yourself, Mrs Van Camp, Mr Toventors and Mr De Spiegeleer at the committee meeting on 23 February for the current state of play on the proposed Belgian rail projects within the facility for recovery and resilience. There was also a question that included new elements on RRF loans. I improvise a little, that's dangerous. The government has not chosen RRF loans but grants. That's a general choice.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u121	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u122	On 29 March, several trade unions in our country planned a national strike day. So that was yesterday. Railway trade unions have also joined in, but, fortunately, passengers were able to fall back on the minimum level of service. The call for strike participation addressed to the employees of SNCB and Infrabel is somewhat remarkable, since the national umbrella of the socialist trade union BBBV framed the strike application against, in its own words, the huge profits made by companies during the corona crisis due mainly to the flexibility of its staff." That is a curious quote, as there is little evidence of huge profits due to the corona crisis in the case of SNCB. Do you agree that it is a strange reasoning, which, however, does not apply to SNCB? What do you think of the trade unions' demands for increasing wages in rail transport? What is your view on the newly established wage standard? What preparations have been made to ensure minimum service provision? Staff members must be asked in advance 72 hours in accordance with the procedure to indicate whether they wish to participate in the strike. How many staff members have applied in this way? How does this relate to the total workforce? What version of the offer was rolled out based on the availability of the staff? As required by the law on minimum services, railway undertakings must evaluate and adjust where appropriate. What adjustments are being made to this strike commitment? In the past, rail strikes have sometimes been accompanied by actions including rail tracks, sometimes even blockades of rail infrastructure. Of course, these things are not legally framed. What is your opinion as a custody minister on such actions? Did they happen yesterday? What are your views on the idea of giving rail unions and trade unions in general legal personality?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u123	I will not comment on the verdict of one or the other. That's not the point. I am here to talk about mobility and I have answers for Mr Roggeman. The wage negotiations within the railway companies are part of the social dialogue within the companies. As a custody minister, it's my role to monitor the proper conduct of this, not the content. From the contacts with the various managers of the company, I can conclude that both parties show the necessary competence and good will to bring the negotiations to a successful conclusion. SNCB has developed an alternative train service which, despite the strike, allowed more than half of the trains to run. Two IC trains on three were planned to drive. Those are the trains between the biggest cities. This also applies to two suburban S-trains on three and two L-trains on three. Most P trains, on the other hand, were abolished. Those are the trains that only run in the morning and evening pits. A number of smaller stations were operated little or no. I am in favour of free speech and the right to strike in general. However, I am convinced that this must be accompanied by respect for all concerned. Although I understand that the positions are far apart and the moods are getting heated, this should under no circumstances be accompanied by deliberate damage or endangering themselves or others. The existing model for social dialogue is certainly not perfect, but it has the merit of existence. I am convinced that we need to focus on more fundamental issues on the agenda, such as improving supply and services. As far as the figures requested are concerned, I will have the table delivered in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u124	Mr Minister, I look forward to the figures, because they seem particularly relevant to me, including for the evaluation of this strike and the adjustments that should be made in the event of a subsequent strike. In fact, I have missed the aspect of the adjustments in your reply. Perhaps you could give me this in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u125	Mr. Wollants is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u126	Mr Toventers, I have taken note of the opinion of the Council of State of 24 March last on the legal language framework of skeyes. The Council of State recommends that the Belgian State adopt, within six months of notification of the judgment, either language frameworks for that autonomous public body or, by means of a royal decision submitted by the Council of Ministers, special measures to regulate the application of the administrative steel law to skeyes, taking into account the specific operating conditions applicable to the company. My cabinet and I will analyse the two possibilities and choose the solution that is best suited for skeyes, in good agreement with the company. To this end, preparatory work by skeyes is absolutely necessary, as knowledge of the service is necessary for the preparation of the file in accordance with the instructions of the Standing Committee on Language Monitoring. That is why I have instructed skeyes to contact the Standing Committee on Language Monitoring in order to provide all the elements that will enable the committee to deliver such an opinion. As for Mr Wollants' questions, for the exams for prospective air traffic controllers organised between 2017 and 2020, skeyes received 58 Dutch-language and 42 French-language applications. In general, skeyes determines a lower success rate for French-speaking candidates, and not just for the English test. Therefore, skeyes has taken several measures to attract more French-speaking candidates, such as targeted advertising campaigns on social networks and participation in trade fairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u127	Thank you, Minister, for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u128	Question No 55015890C by Mrs Cécile Thibaut is transformed into a written question. Question No 55015787 by Mr. Ben Segers is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u129	Mr President, Mr Toventors, you have asked for a lot of figures. I will give you the results of the survey in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u130	Questions Nos 55015956C and 55015957C by Mrs Vicky Reynaert are postponed, as are Question No 55015963C by Mr Joris Vandenbroucke. Questions Nos 55016012C and 55016016C by Marianne Verhaert are postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u131	Mr Minister, the government has appointed Mr Thibaut Georgin, the new chairman of the Belgian railway company SNCB. Mr Georgiin is a former director of bpost and was nominated by Ecolo. He began his career as manager at Unilever, where he continued to work for eight years. At bpost he was responsible for marketing and he also worked for the Walloon water company SPGE and the energy player Energiris. I have a few questions about this. Can you explain exactly why Mr Georgiin will be appointed as chairman of the Board of Directors of SNCB? What experience does he have with the train? What names were on the shortlist to replace Mr Fontinoy as chairman of the Board of Directors of SNCB? How did the application process go? Once the new chairman is at the helm of SNCB, the decision to close 44 stations can be taken. Is that an option? If not, why not? Can the President put a new vote on the point of contact on the agenda? When exactly will the new chairman replace the old chairman? What compensation did Mr.Fonntinoy receive for his presidency at SNCB in 2020? Will Mr Geordin, nominated by Ecolo, receive the same amount?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u132	Mrs Vindevoghel, Mr Georgiin is someone with a lot of management and management experience in the private and public sector and also has a great heart for rail and public service. Like the government, he believes in the great importance of the train and in the need for investment in a better supply and more comfort for passengers. In tandem with CEO Sophie Dutordoir there is now a very strong duo at the head of SNCB. I firmly believe that these two excellent people can shape the future of SNCB and that they will be able to convince more and more people to take public transport and the train. Mr Georgiin will chair the Management Board from the next meeting in April 2021, if all goes well. A KB has to be published on this. As you can see in the public annual report of SNCB of 2018, the Law of 21 March 1921 on the reform of certain public economic enterprises provides that the General Assembly shall determine the remuneration of the members of the Governing Board. The general meeting of 31 May 2006 laid down the principles for determining the remuneration of directors. According to the principles laid down at the time, gross remuneration is composed of a fixed annual portion of €39.000 and a variable portion of seats for meetings. The seat fees shall be EUR 500 per meeting of the Management Board and EUR 400 per meeting of committees of which he is a member. In addition, according to the principle currently unchanged, the president receives an annual fee of 2,000 euros for running costs and receives a company car. Mr. Georgiin told me he gave up that company car. As far as your question on the points of contact is concerned, I would refer you to the extensive discussion on this matter at the last committee meeting. By the end of March 2021, almost all the municipalities concerned will have had a consultation with SNCB on the future implementation of the station buildings. Many ideas have already been formulated and plans have been made to implement these initiatives by the first quarter of 2022.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic432x.u133	Thank you for the comprehensive answer. We have been a long-time party to include representatives of travellers' organisations, for example, on the board of directors. Hopefully, the new chairman will be able to take some initiatives to make the board a little more democratic. The riot surrounding the closure of the points of contact has shown that the decision was not supported, not by the population and not by the traveller's organisation. It wasn't a good decision.
