ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic369x.u1	Madam Deputy Prime Minister, I insist on keeping as much telework as possible according to the rules. So if you'll excuse me, I can't be on the scene. That's why I'm speaking to you from sunny East Flanders. A lot of Flemings looked at Martine Tanghe's catchy farewell as the news anchor of the VRT a while ago. Immediately there were also questions about automatically retiring people at the age of 65. Although it is now possible to work after that age, it is necessary to apply for a maximum period of one year as a permanent official. The application must therefore be renewed each time. Contractual staff may simply continue to work as long as their employment contract is not terminated. In Flanders, the competent minister announced that he wants one simple system that applies to all Flemish officials. CD&V is also in favour of it. Longer work should be possible if people want it. A simple procedure should be in place for this. Too much red tape should not stop people from working longer if they want to. In Flanders, discussions with the trade unions will soon begin on a reform of the procedure. The principle would be reversed. Anyone who can and wants to work will not have to ask for special permission in the future. Madam Vice-Prime Minister, we think it is appropriate to introduce this scheme also for our federal civil servants. Do you have any plans in that direction? Have initiatives already been taken to consult with the trade unions on this matter? What timing do you have in mind? Is there any consultation with the regions on this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic369x.u2	Thank you, Mr Briers, for your question. As you specify, staff of the Federal Public Service may request to continue to work after the age of 65, in accordance with the provisions of the Ministerial Decree of 11 September 2012 implementing Article 3 of the Royal Decree of 12 May 1927 on the age of retirement for officials, officials and servants of the State, in accordance with a procedure further described in the circular 618 of the same date. Although the problem of the longer work of staff who have reached the age of 65 has not been included in the government agreement and the procedure appears to be rather flexible in practice, I recognize that it is possible to simplify procedures for this purpose. This could make it even easier for staff to continue working after the maximum retirement age, provided, of course, that the organisation sees a need for this. Furthermore, in the interests of coherence, I think it is also essential that this particular issue should form part of the reflection that will take place within the much wider context of government career arrangements. In addition to the need to adapt the regulation as a function of the raising of the maximum age that opens the right to pension to 66 years in 2025 and 67 years in 2030, it is also appropriate, as you point out, to evaluate whether it is possible to move from the possibility of working after the retirement age to the right to work after that time. In doing so, care must be taken to ensure that procedures are simple and rapid. I would like to commit myself to taking this issue into account in the work that will take place in the middle of this year on the arrangements for the end of the career, and in particular the career ending in the federal government. This should fit within a broad sectoral agreement. I would also like to tell you that, in order to adapt the legislation on this matter, consultation with the regions is not really necessary, which does not, of course, prevent us from following closely the negotiations on this issue in the regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic369x.u3	Madam Minister, thank you for your very clear answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic369x.u4	Mr President, Minister, the workplace remains the most dangerous place to be infected. The last epidemiological report from Sciensano showed that. 38% of the clusters were found in the workplace. Unfortunately, this is not different in the government: reasons enough to continue to use campaigns and enforcement on compulsory homework. However, your last call to different public services to put maximum effort on homework dates from mid-December 2020. Today, mobility in our country has increased again. Since the turn of the year, we can suspect that employees and employers have been somewhat lax about the current directives on teleworking. A FPS Finance official testified in the middle of January in Het Laatste Nieuws that there is no homework on these services because of jealousy between the different services. The conditions were not safe at all: there was hardly any brushing and there was no ventilation on the work floor. There is still a great deal of indignation. The government is obliged not to follow its own rules and yet to go down to Brussels. Following on from the circular of 15 December 2020, have you taken new initiatives to promote homework in public services? Can you confirm the practice in the FPS Finance? Is it a single fact? I should hope so. What initiatives have been taken to avoid such practices in public services and to seek an exemplary role? What progress have you been able to make in your intention to look at homework allowances for teleworking officials?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic369x.u5	Mr. President, Minister, since the beginning of the pandemic, telework has taken an important place in the lives of tens of thousands of workers, and public servants are obviously no exception to the rule. However, as I mentioned in the discussion of your general policy note, telework can be the best as the worst, depending on how it is organized and framed. The rules governing telework in the public service are, for the most part, texts drawn up with a view to a "normal" period, and the current situation is anything but normal. Therefore, Minister, have any specific rules been enacted as part of the generalization of telework in this pandemic period? In particular, from the management point of view, have specific rules or ad hoc training been set up to ensure that telework takes place in good conditions for staff? With regard to the equipment, could the necessary equipment be distributed to the agents? Do you have any idea of the proportion of agents whose function allows for and is actually carried out in telework?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic369x.u6	Mr President, Mrs Van Robaeys, Mrs Goethals, Mr Senesael, thank you for the pertinent questions on teleworking. Since the corona crisis has been so ugly, it is important to take the necessary protective measures and framework measures. We have indeed done so by introducing, where possible, structural telework in the various administrations under my supervision. I am pleased to inform you that the call for telework has been well followed up in all organisations. A measurement of the number of teleworkers was carried out during the week from 11 to 15 January. More than 84% of the employees worked at home in the organisations participating in this measurement, of which 59% worked full-time. I regret the experience of the official employed in the FPS Finance, but there too the figures are positive. At the FPS Finance, 92.6% of the people from home worked during that monitored week, 67.4% of them full-time. The minority who did not work at home mainly fulfils essential functions, for example in customs. That principle applies to all civil servants. In total, 15.2% of those who do not work telework. I can transfer the summary tables, if desired, to each organisation in writing. Mrs Goethals has already tabled a written question to that effect. Three sources are used to determine those essential tasks. Firstly, the circular 692 relating to mandatory telework of 15 December 2020. Secondly, the brochure "Tackling a Tightened Lockdown" of 2 November 2020, which describes, for example, that telework does not apply to the following activities, provided that respect for the hygiene and social distancing measures: field activities, specific activities that can only be carried out on site at the institutions, face-to-face services that cannot take place remotely and in which employees come into contact with citizens, selections of new employees that cannot be organised digitally and training that are indispensable for the function and cannot take place remotely. Thirdly, the Ministerial Decision on the urgent measures to limit the spread of the corona virus of 29 October 2020. The Annex to this Ministerial Decision lists the commercial, private and public enterprises and services necessary for the protection of the vital interests of the nation and the needs of the population. So, with the figures I have given you, we can actually confirm that due to specific monitoring, the percentage of teleworkers has been closely monitored since the start of the crisis. Based on the measurements and the contacts with the various organizations within the federal government, there is actually no reason to doubt that the rules on teleworking are being correctly applied. For the legal framework of teleworking within the federal government, I refer to the Royal Decrees of 22 November 2006 and 13 July 2017. The provisions of the Royal Decree of 22 November 2006 are now also applicable in the case of compulsory telework. During this period, the teleworker has the same rights and obligations as the non-teleworker with regard to welfare and prevention, the regulation of working time and the organisation of work, availability and absences – as provided for in the Royal Decree. However, in this KB there are also articles that are not applicable in the context of mandatory telework. I refer specifically to Article 5 (1) on the voluntary nature of telework. This is not applicable given that the current situation involves compulsory telework. Article 5 (4) states that telework may not exceed three fifths of the working arrangements applicable to the teleworker over a period of one year. In view of the present mandatory nature, this does not apply either. This appropriation is intended to cover the costs of the work of the Court of Justice of the European Union in accordance with the Staff Regulations of Officials of the European Union and the Conditions of Employment of Other Servants of the European Union and the Conditions of Employment of Other Servants of the European Union and the Conditions of Employment of Other Servants of the European Union and the Conditions of Employment of Other Servants of the Article 96 provides that the reimbursement of telework costs shall cover the costs of connections and communications and shall not, as a whole, exceed EUR 20 per month. In addition to the regulatory framework, the SPF BOSA has also developed several initiatives to support telework, both before and during the Corona crisis. The e-Campus, the federal government's open e-learning offer, brought together a number of trainings useful for telework. In addition, some training courses, coaching sessions and online advice have also been organized to improve well-being at work. Most of these services are free of charge for any federal public servant. In May last year, a telework questionnaire was completed by more than 13,000 federal officials. The results of this survey formed the basis for a reflection in the network of P&D directors on telework. This reflection has already been discussed with the College of Presidents and forms the basis for consultation with the social partners on this issue. These consultations began this year and will continue during the first quarter. The first talks with the social partners focused on promoting and improving telework in the federal administrations. During the consultation, subjects were addressed as a grant for telework, material, civil servant well-being and leadership skills. With regard to the issue of raising the homework allowance, I can tell you that we are looking at various slopes in the context of that consultation. After this, we will draw up and submit a proposal. With regard to the equipment made available to officials, I can tell you that during the discussions with the social partners we will see how a similar approach can be developed in each organisation, so that teleworkers can have the necessary equipment throughout the federal government to carry out their activities in an ergonomic and comfortable manner. I believe that this is part of the well-being of the official, which I attach great importance to. New initiatives will also be taken on the basis of these discussions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic369x.u7	Madam Minister, I have great respect for those who have essential functions and therefore have to continue to work effectively on the ground with the necessary risks. In addition, the situation is particularly difficult for the people who do telework. It is, however, a good thing that this obligation is respected, just because there are risks involved in the workplace. It also leads to a greater spread of the virus. There was the signal from the FPS Finance, but I have also received other signals that indicate that there is still a lack of trust among colleagues or executives. People were pressured by this. However, if this is monitored, the figures do turn out to be positive. I can only ask you to follow this up as long as these measures are needed. With regard to the framework, it is true that the fee per month is EUR 20 for an Internet connection. It is good that there is now also a discussion with the social partners, which looks beyond just the Internet connection. It cannot be the intention of civil servants and employees in the private sector to sit on a stool at their kitchen table while they are working on a tablet. On an ergonomic level alone, I don't think that's a good thing. If we are going to make a permanent commitment to two days of telework a week, then it is good that people have the necessary equipment at their disposal, so that they feel comfortable with it. However, I would like to draw attention to one point. Constantly required teleworking is also psychologically heavy. Is there therefore sufficient attention to support the mental well-being of civil servants?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic369x.u8	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive and comprehensive reply. I am extremely pleased that the problem at the FPS Finance Office is only a one-off fact and that a lot of telework is being done there. That's very important. Unfortunately, exceptions make the rule. Neither you nor I can change that. A clear framework is needed for teleworking. This is necessary for everyone in terms of ergonomic equipment, the availability of workers and so on. But I hear that you are working on this and that you have already taken steps to continue working with the various organisations. I can only welcome that. I will be happy to follow it up.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic369x.u9	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. You have made a complete tour of the various aspects of telework, both from the point of view of employers' obligations and from the point of view of teleworker, in full consultation with the trade union delegations – I would like to stress this. From the whole of your answer, I will particularly note one point which I believe is essential: the equipment made available to workers to carry out their activities from their home. As you said, well-being at work is fundamental. It is also important for the worker's involvement in his or her tasks. If he wants to be fully professional and adequately respond to the tasks requested of him, I believe that particular attention must be paid to the conditions at his disposal. I know that this is something that you are particularly interested in. In consultation with the organisations, I believe that it will be unanimous in order to achieve significant progress in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic369x.u10	Herr Vorsitzende, Frau Ministerin, zunächst herzlichen Glückwunsch zu Ihrer Nominierung. Ich habe jetzt die Möglichkeit, Ihnen zu gratulieren und Sie dann sofort mit einem Dossier zu konfrontieren, das mir schon seit Jahren am Herzen liegt und leider zemer noch problem ist, nämlich der Mangel an geeigneten Evaluators beim Selor, und zur Evaluators, die auch der deutschen Sprache mächtig sind. Das ist ein Problem, weil die gesetzlich vorschrieben Testen, die für evenuelle deutschsprachige Beamten zur Verfügung stehen müssen, leider nicht zur Verfügung stehen, und das seit Jahren schon nicht, weil man da bei der Rekrutierung nicht weiter kommt. Das stellt natürlich die Beamten, die sich eine Prüfung unterziehen wollen oder müssen und in ihrer Karriere weiterkommen wollen, vor große Trouble, weil sie das dann auch nicht können. Frau Ministerin, sind Sie sich der Situation beim Selor, so ich sie gerade bereben habe, bewusst? Wenn ja, können Sie mir vielleicht einige Pissennennennen, was man in the bowls Monaten zu ingenuie versucht um dieser Situation Herr zu became? Were those geeigneten Prüfer aber auch die geeigneten Prüfungen rechtzeitig beziehungsweise fristgemäß, wie das auch für alle andere Candidaten im Niederländischen und im Französischen der Fall ist, zur Verfügung gestellt? Who's dann mit der entsprechenden Organisation der Prüfungen aus?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic369x.u11	Danke voorzitter. Mrs Jadin, Ich Danke Ihnen für Ihre Frage. I have prepared the answer in French.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic369x.u12	Yes, I know! No problem, but it's to focus on the importance of the file.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic369x.u13	If you had introduced the question in German, I would have answered in German.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic369x.u14	It is noted, Madam Minister, that is not to be said twice!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic369x.u15	At the end of last year, two evaluators for the German language tests gave their resignation. The entire German language testing team consisted of four people, which means that there are currently two. My administration is currently doing everything possible through a public procurement to expand the team of evaluators for all languages. Our objective is to award this contract again this year. Pending the award of this public contract, which will be valid for several years, we examine whether we can temporarily expand the testing team in German. Currently, and especially because of the covid, we give priority to language tests in the selection process. With respect to your question about unfulfilled recruitment, I can assure you that my administration has not had an echo of services blocked by a problem in language testing that would prevent the filling of positions. I hope that answers your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic369x.u16	Madam Minister, I too would like to begin by congratulating you on your appointment. I haven't had a chance to ask you a question before. I would like to ask a question about the 3% target for the employment of people with disabilities in the public sector. That seems to me to be a minimum, especially if we are to set an example. We're far from there. Therefore, in your policy paper, you indicate that you want to focus on raising awareness of senior officials and that you are working on better reporting methods and on supporting adjustments to the workplace. Selor makes adjustments, depending on the test and the disability, or the learning disorder or disease, so that a test can be done in appropriate conditions. For example, the test can be done with a custom PC with a magnifying glass or with reading software, with a braille reading rule or with software for dyslectics. An interpreter can also be used, or sign language, or extra time can be given. There are other adjustments. Selor therefore does not organise separate selections for people with disabilities, but since 2004 it offers adaptations and separate guidance for the regular selections so that people with disabilities, learning disabilities or illness can also participate in the tests. Despite these efforts, we see that the 3% target is not being met. More than that, I read in Minister Lalieux's note that we employed barely 1.25 percent of people with disabilities in 2018. That's even less than the year before. I also get signals that people with disabilities who are employed by start-up contracts, i.e. young people under 26 years of age, will be dismissed at the age of 26 because they did not pass the Selor test, while they were really satisfied with them in the section where they were employed. That is why, Madam Secretary, the following questions. Do you know how many people with disabilities now work in the government? In the meantime, is that number higher than 1.25 %? Hopefully it's a lot more, because we have to go to 3 %. Do you believe that Selor's tests are sufficiently tailored to what the workplace needs effectively and what is expected of the person concerned? Apparently not, I see in the runway agreements. Will you evaluate the Selor tests soon? Will the relevant administrations also be involved in the review of the tests? Is the procedure for asking for adjustments sufficiently well known to the people? If that is not the case, do you plan information campaigns? Can you tell me how many applications there have been in the last five years for a modified Selor test? What other measures do you plan to go to 3 % employment? Finally, work at home is compulsory at the moment. I believe that the government has an exemplary role to play in making people with disabilities work at home as much as possible. Are there any changes to the workplace at home now? A customized screen or chair is certainly not an unnecessary luxury for people with disabilities. I think we should do this not only because of the work at home that is now mandatory, but also after corona, because we know that daily movements for people with disabilities to work can sometimes be an additional threshold. The possibility of working from home would therefore be good.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic369x.u17	Mrs Lanjri, thank you for your questions, which are very close to my heart. According to BCAPH's reporting, at the end of 2019, 1.22% of people with disabilities worked for the federal government. These are the most recent figures. We do not yet have a figure of 2020. This was calculated according to the definition of the KPI of 6 October 2005. You rightly said that this figure is lower than the previous year. That is a statement which I regret to confirm. For each vacancy, the selection procedure shall be adapted to the profile sought. For example, DG Recruitment and Development ensures that the selection tools used are specifically tailored to the competence to be measured relevant to the function. The DG is therefore working with a scientific advisory committee to underpin and further evolve the selection methods and instruments used. On a regular basis, the needs and needs of the test instruments are tested with the selection consultation and certifications within the various administrations. On Selor's website, the procedure is explained step by step in the section on Equal Opportunities. In addition, each vacancy indicates that a number of measures, including the reasonable adjustments, can be relied on and which actions an applicant should take in order to make use of them. There is also a section in My Selor, which allows the candidate to further supplement his data in his personal file. To give you an idea of the numbers, 1,278 requests for reasonable adjustments were submitted in 2020, of which 839 were allocated. Often occurring adjustments include the use of Braille, reading rules and magnification software, the use of deaf interpreters, speech software, for example for people with dyslexia, adjustable tables and the granting of extra time. As clearly stated in my 2021 policy paper, you referred to it, I absolutely want to identify the thresholds during both the selection process and the career as a whole for certain target groups in order to know why the figures are so low. On the basis of these analyses, the figures and the identification of possible thresholds shall be available to us to determine actions to take the necessary measures to achieve the quota of 3%. In my work on the rebranding of the federal government as an attractive employer, I also want to pay attention to inclusive recruitment campaigns. In addition, I would like to invest this is an answer to your last question: 'We have already set aside a budget of EUR 500 000 for telework for people with disabilities'. The changes needed to adjust the employment of a disabled person are borne by the federal government as an employer for a total of 100 %.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic369x.u18	Madam Minister, I notice that for the third time in a row the employment rate of people with disabilities in the government is falling. Now we're at 1.22%. That's even less than the year before, 2018. We should be ashamed of that figure, because we should actually achieve 3%. We must also do what we promise: not only to work on the 3% quota and on all the actions needed for this, but also to make the government truly an attractive employer for everyone, including for people with disabilities. This means that we need to work on good tests at Selor so that the skills and knowledge needed for a job are tested, no more or no less. I'm glad you're working on that. There is also a need to invest in changes in the workplace, not only in the public sector, but also at home. I am pleased that EUR 500 000 has been released for investment in working at home. The covid crisis can also speed things up because more people have to work at home and everyone understands that working at home can become the norm later or at least more can be applied, including for people with disabilities. So let us do that now and invest extra in it. Finally, I would like to ask you this. I see the figures and I hear you say that 1,278 people have requested an adjustment of the Selor tests and that only 839 cases have been covered. So a very large group falls out of the boat. I therefore hope that you will look into why these applications were rejected and whether that rejection was justified. After all, we really need more people with disabilities. In the context of an inclusive society and inclusive working environment, we must do everything we can to ensure that talented people can also be recruited to the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic369x.u19	Before we continue with the hearings on the economic impact of immigration in Belgium, I would like to suspend for five minutes, in order to allow the services to make some technical arrangements.
