ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u1	I myself am the first questioner, but since I am in the chair, I find it a little strange to start first. I will join as the last speaker.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u2	Madam President, Minister, in order to make things easy for everyone, I refer to the text of my question as tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u3	Minister, we sometimes find it hard to believe, but the summer has come. Sometimes, when the thermometer exceeds 20 degrees, the cars turn into a real furnace, which can be quite unbearable for passengers. This is particularly true of the fact that only 57% of trains are equipped with an air conditioning system. These heat peaks can also make the work of attendants and train drivers very complicated. To remedy this problem, SNCB has recently tested refreshing vests that contain cold water, thus maintaining a pleasant body temperature and limiting the feeling of heat. Minister, what solutions are being considered by SNCB to make trains more comfortable for passengers in periods of high heat? Will new air conditioning systems be installed in the future? How do you explain that so few trains are currently equipped? At present, what feedback have you received from the NBSC regarding the first days of testing of these famous refreshing vests for train attendants and drivers? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u4	Minister, the heat problem has been a problem for a long time. SNCB has been aware for many years that the working conditions of the driving staff are not in conformity with the welfare code. Minister, I can assure you that I know this codex quite well. As a former trade unionist, I often had to perform at my workshop during the heat period. This was terrible at the airport and the working conditions were not simple. So I'm pretty familiar with the welfare codex. This codex is very good and provides prevention and protection and contains many proposals to ensure that staff can work in good working conditions. There are also many reports that some reports are already twenty years old about the effects on the body of stress and heat. The reports also highlight the importance of adapted working conditions, especially for staff working in safety functions. After all, this entails risks of error. Over the past summer, a lot of workers have been hit by heat. Despite the measures, they often had to spend hours in steering stations or passenger compartments, where temperatures were sometimes above 40 degrees Celsius. The FOD WASO therefore carried out a job visit and a study following an accident at work in 2020. The report of the study makes firewood from the heat plan and the heat measures at SNCB. I therefore have the following questions for you, Minister. Firstly, is SNCB better prepared in 2021 than in 2020, when we have already asked questions about the issue? What specific measures does SNCB's heat plan contain? How much of the trains that drive around doesn't have air conditioning this summer? What measures does SNCB take to provide cooling to the counter operators? Are there air conditioning systems? If not, how many manned counters do not have any kind of cooling? Finally, SNCB's new uniforms are beautiful. The staff complains, however, that they are warmer than the previous ones. The female workers are allowed to wear a skirt. However, the men are not allowed to wear shorts. Can't that be revisited? Isn't there any way that the men can wear shorts during the summer? After all, we hear from the workers that the new uniforms are warmer than the previous ones.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u5	Mr. Secretary, I will not repeat myself. Colleagues have already outlined the situation. I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u6	Madam President, I too would like to refer to the written answer to my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u7	Since it is a topical debate, Members who have not tabled a question may now ask a question, but nobody asks for the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u8	Madam President, SNCB informs me that the heat plan for the railways means that modern air-conditioned equipment is being used as efficiently as possible. In addition, as many preparations as possible are made proactively to avoid all problems with the equipment and specifically the air conditioning system. When it gets more than 30 degrees, it can indeed be unpleasantly warm in rooms without air conditioning. That also applies to trains without air conditioning. I think we have all been able to see this, in any case those who, like me, take the train. This is not very pleasant and it is even less pleasant for SNCB workers. I'll start with a few considerations about travellers. During the periods with the standard offer, 66% of train passengers have an air-conditioned train during the week. Currently, 57% of the train fleet is equipped with an air conditioning system. This air-conditioned equipment is put into service mainly for long distances, i.e. for IC trains. Given its purchase price, SNCB's rolling stock – it is important to recall – is amortized in forty years. It is therefore logical that older material still circulates at certain times and places. A SNCB leader, such as a Minister of Mobility, inherits a past investment situation, means and choices with which he must work. Since the SNCB is a national company and the same train travels continuously from one Region to another, it is not possible to disaggregate the number of air-conditioned and non-air-conditioned train kilometres by Region. Non-air-conditioned trains are mainly operated as reinforcements to the fleet during peak hours. These are P trains on lines that make frequent stops. They are usually frequented by travellers who travel shorter distances and must experience less heat inconvenience, provided the heat arrives. That is not the case at the moment. SNCB is well aware of the problems that heat waves cause for its personnel in function on the ground. The equipment and work organisation of the driving staff in the event of heat waves is monitored by SNCB in the Committee on Prevention and Protection at Work. Mr Roggeman has already questioned me about the FOD WASO investigation you are referring to, Mrs Vindevoghel. I therefore invite you to reply to his written question No. 133 after reading for more details. As part of these measures to ensure the best well-being of its employees, SNCB launched on 7 June the first phase of a test of refrigerated jackets for escorts, drivers and train drivers in the event of high heats during this summer. With a 72-hour range, this jacket works thanks to an internal water refrigeration system. In this test phase, 400 jackets are currently available for use by attendants mainly on non-air-conditioned trains. A possible second phase of testing could take place on the basis of the results of this first phase. If the test proves positive, an additional 1,700 jackets will be made available, bringing the total to 2,100 jackets available this summer. Mrs Vindevoghel, as regards your question about the staff at the booths, SNCB, like any employer, takes up its role in ensuring the health of its staff. Measures shall also be taken for staff in workshops and stations. During the day the necessary rest breaks are held and there is also an extended afternoon break. In addition, the necessary drinks are made available to the staff. However, at the moment I do not have any figures available on the number of air-conditioned points of contact. With regard to this question, and also with regard to the uniforms of staff, I cannot give you specific answers at the moment, but I can tell you that I have asked SNCB to pay attention to this. SNCB informs me that she takes note of the sighs and passes them on to the committees concerned. In this context, I would like to add the CEO of SNCB, Mrs Dutordoir, to her statement that SNCB's train attendants are doing a very good job in sometimes difficult circumstances. As far as rolling stock is concerned, Mr Roggeman raises a number of very detailed questions, such as a list per line. I do not have this information. The proportion of air-conditioned SNCB rolling stock will increase further with the gradual arrival of M7 cars over the next few years. To date 62 carriages M7 have been put into service. The performance of the M7 vehicles in commercial service is closely monitored. The performance and reliability of the vehicles delivered comply with the concrete agreements. In the summer of this year the first series cars BDx and Bmx will be used in commercial service. For the non-districts, these are the two types of steering carriages, one of which is motorized and the other is not. The end of deliveries within the current first order of the M7 is planned in the course of 2023. The last Bmx steering stations will be delivered at the end of the first quarter of 2023, the last BAB carriages and BDx steering stations are scheduled for the end of the third quarter of 2023. Your questions are very pertinent, even though it hasn't been such a good weather in the last few days. However, in recent years, the climate crisis has shown that heat waves will become more likely year after year. How disruptive the climate crisis is to the normal functioning of our society we have been able to observe in Canada over the past few weeks. The government is committed to preventing the complete derailment of this climate crisis, at international and European level, within its federal powers and in cooperation with the Regions. Within my powers, I am working, for example, to make rail traffic more attractive and to reform the road code, with more scope for multimodal movements. At the same time, we must prepare ourselves for the fact that extreme weather conditions will become increasingly likely over the next few years and decades. Unfortunately, the impact of our massive use of fossil fuels in the past will still be felt for a long time. These extreme weather conditions obviously have a damaging impact on the functioning of different sectors of society, including rail transport.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u9	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You say that at the moment about two thirds of the trains have air conditioning, so one third doesn't. The equipment shall be written off over a period of 40 years. Then it will be a long time before air conditioning will be standard on SNCB's rolling stock. You also rightly refer to the greater probability of heat waves. Then additional measures are absolutely justified. You were talking about the cooling coats. I am very interested in the outcome of that. Hopefully this will be followed very well and seriously by SNCB. As a public undertaking, SNCB has an exemplary role to play in ensuring well-being at work for its employees, but also rail passengers must of course be guaranteed a minimum level of comfort. Air conditioning is not an unnecessary luxury in summer anyway. You did not answer my question about the evolution of the number of complaints from staff and passengers about excessive heat on the train. I can get those figures in writing later if you don't have them here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u10	Minister, thank you for your answers. I haven't heard a clear answer about the cold vest test, but I guess we need a little more time, especially since there have not been many canicular days. We will therefore await the results of this pilot experiment.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u11	Mr. Secretary, thank God we don't live in Canada. With the limited progress, both for the people who have to work and for the travelers, it is all too slow for me. However, the welfare legislation is very clear in this respect. I would therefore like once again to call for more resources to be made available on this nail, and you know that in order to ensure that workers can work in good conditions. My appeal also applies in particular to subcontractors working for SNCB and Infrabel. Whoever cleans the train sets, I used to work in the cleaning department of the airport, and I know that this job is very heavy in the summer, in the heat. A train that stands in the sun warms up very quickly. Hence my call not to forget the people of cleaning. I also regret that no consideration is being given to summer and winter clothing. It would be quite an improvement if the men were allowed to wear shorts. It would be a rapid improvement for staff.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u12	Minister, I note that your reply refers in detail to climate change, climate policy and the need to reduce fossil fuels. That is a bit ironic, of course, as the energy policy of this government will dramatically increase the combustion of fossil fuels, but that aside. I look forward to the results of the pilot project with the cooling jackets. I had hoped that the first results would be available after a few weeks. All understanding of the fact that this is not yet the case, but we must acknowledge that such experiments bring little progress. It is not a fundamental solution, if only because such vests are only made available to the employees, the travellers have nothing to do with it. You will, of course, inherit the policies of your predecessors. You have correctly described that the depreciation periods of rolling stock are a legacy from previous periods of office, and fortunately, because during the previous policy period a major investment, amounting to EUR 1.3 billion, was made for the purchase of new M7 rowing. These are now being delivered gradually and are fully equipped with cooling systems. Let us hope that there will be some improvement in the field in the coming years.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u13	Madam President, Minister, a great deal has already been said. I can only agree with that. Only 66% of trains currently have air conditioning. So there's still a long way to go. A further effort will have to be made to provide an accelerated solution. I can add that this is due to underinvestment and the lack of policies, management agreements, financing and strategic decisions that have not been taken in the past. It's bothering us now. I can only hope that, after everything we have talked about in 2020, we will not have the same situation again this summer as we did in 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u14	Minister, I am pleased that a number of things are moving forward. Already, we have this debate at the beginning of the summer. The last debate on the heat wave dates back to November. There was a traffic jam in the Mobility Committee and the issue could not be dealt with. In this debate, it was mentioned that SNCB was seeking solutions to the problem. We've been talking about it for a long time. Here, we see that solutions, even if partial, could be found for the staff. I am pleased that, if the test is successful, the measure will be extended. It's important. As far as travellers are concerned, a lot has been said. There is the legacy of a past situation, the rolling stock that will gradually arrive with better air conditioning conditions. Personally, on my Statte-Brussels line, I was able to test M7 vehicles during the summer period and thus both the comfort in terms of heat and accessibility. It's very important but it was a test phase and we have equipment that is not the same as in normal times. I hope that, gradually, these M7 vehicles will be able to deploy on the network. Until then, in the improvement tracks for the future, there is indeed the fact of having to manage equipment that must be profitable over long periods of time and to see how, in older trains, heat can be avoided in order to increase the comfort of passengers during periods of high heat. Heavy heats have been frequent in recent years, not this summer, certainly, but we know well that with climate disruption, heat waves will come back sooner or later. Thank you for your answers and your commitment to continue working on this issue with SNCB.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u15	Minister, you talked about the climate crisis, climate warming, more heat waves and more extreme weather conditions. We will indeed have to find solutions to this. Making rail transport more attractive indeed means that passengers and train staff share the same concerns. With more pleasant temperatures on the train, everyone gets better. I can talk about it. If you take the train from Brussels to the Kempen and spend almost an hour and a half on the train, it is more fun if the temperature is pleasant. I understand that a number of actions have already been taken. You talked about more breaks, a longer lunch break, more drinks available. You have also explicitly asked for more attention to be paid to the situation of the workers and hopefully this will make the work more workable for the workers on the hottest days. Nevertheless, it remains important to continue to evaluate the plan, together with the employees. In addition, additional measures should be taken for passengers. The best solution offers the new air-conditioned train sets, which can replace the old ones. Stilaan there are more of these train sets on our rail network, but we still have to wait until they all have air conditioning. So we have to keep thinking in whatever way we can keep it pleasant for the train traveller.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u16	Minister, you refer to past decisions. On the one hand, that is true, but on the other hand, that is not entirely right for our region. In the Kempen it will get worse from this summer onwards. The diesel trains are replaced by older trains without air conditioning. So I'm gonna keep knocking on that nail after all. I also raised the problem of snow in March. It remains striking that in the Kempen we can't get anything moving to increase the comfort for the train passengers. This is really difficult for both staff and passengers, especially if we want to promote modal shift. I hope that, in future, we will be able to expect improvement for the staff and certainly for the passengers. It's a long drive, as Mrs Buyst mentioned. Perhaps we can inform the travelers via the app that there is no air conditioning on the train. It's just a very small step, but that way people can prepare themselves a bit and possibly bring some extra water. Well, they'll know about it by then anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u17	Madam President, Minister, the Committee on Mobility has adopted a resolution on the Hamont-Weert rail link. I have already said in the discussion that this approval should not be the signal to sit back. On the political level, although the current situation in the Netherlands is difficult, I have made a promise that I would regularly call in this committee with a question about the state of affairs. Minister, what news or information can you tell us about the Hamant-Weert rail link? Have there been any meetings? Have any steps been taken? What's the status of that file?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u18	Madam President, Mr Toventors, of course I am following this dossier closely through my policy cell and my administration. I can tell you that, since my previous reply on that dossier in the Mobility Committee, a bilateral steering group on cross-border connections took place on Thursday 20 May. As a reminder, this steering committee comes together in implementation of the so-called bilateral declaration on the improvement of short cross-border rail transport between Belgium and the Netherlands. This steering group has the various railway files concerning Belgium and the Netherlands on the agenda. For the Hamant-Weert dossier, a joint memo was proposed in the steering committee which clearly outlines the situation of the dossier in both countries. The memo gives an overview of the following elements: a social cost-benefit analysis by the Dutch Ministry, the potential research of SNCB, the infrastructure study, the equipment, the different overhead voltages, the different train security systems, the route and the fork of the estimated investment costs for the different infrastructure variants. The Steering Committee also resolved the uncertainty surrounding the infravariants in the annex to the SNCB document to which you also referred two committee meetings ago. It is intended that the various parties concerned confirm the situation described as correct. At that time, the next step is for our Dutch partners to submit the dossier to the administrative consultation with all relevant authorities on the Dutch side, in particular the Ministry of Infrastructure and Water State, the province and the municipality of Weert. The situation regarding this dossier is clear on the Belgian side. The railway line is currently fully electrified to Hamant. On Monday 14 July the first regular electric passenger train runs to Hamont. On the Dutch side, major investments are needed for the reactivation of the line. You understand that it is not appropriate for a Belgian Minister for Mobility to tell his Dutch colleagues which themes should or should not be included in the Dutch government agreement, for example the re-inclusion of the project into the Dutch government agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u19	I welcome your answer. I have heard some good things, such as the consultation that has still taken place and the continuation of the project. The subjects, which I have all noted, are all important. I am therefore very pleased, just as I was pleased to read in the press that when the official inauguration of Line 19 was launched, both yourself and the CEO of SNCB, Mrs Dutordoir, the verdict of a negative business case on the infamous potential study weakened and indicated that that might have been expressed too harshly. So that all looks very good. In that negative business case, of course, there will be a negative exploitation of that line. Let's not let that stop us. In the Netherlands it would take a few weeks longer, but it is very important that we look not only at the difficult situation at national level, but also at provincial level. There, too, there is a very specific, difficult situation, as the governor and the entire province board of Dutch Limburg have had to quit. A completely new installation must be carried out and the former recruits must not be allowed to return to work. There was already a commitment to future exploitation because of these people. It will therefore be necessary to re-examine the extent to which they will be paid in the future in the event of possible operating losses. It is therefore very important to keep the finger on the wrist at that level and to follow things very closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u20	Madam President, Minister, mobility needs are changing rapidly. During corona telework has become the standard and in all likelihood it will remain the same after corona, with less commuting time and hopefully less traffic jams. The behaviour of the train traveller will also change dramatically, and this obviously has a major impact on SNCB. But every challenge also has an opportunity. With this so-called Flex Subscription, SNCB aims to provide an answer to the changing commuting of the commuting worker. The pilot project started last June, and the subscription will be rolled out at the beginning of 2022. Now that employers are focusing on mobility budgets and also on a combination of telework and office work, SNCB wants to offer train passengers a flexible and attractive ticket. This Flex Subscription will then have to provide companies with simplified administrative handling. The pilot project will offer the ticket to 6,000 to 7,000 employees of large companies. Hence a number of questions. What specific objectives are set to speak of a successful pilot project? The formula is only digital, via the app, available. What's the reason for that? Given the changing world, it is likely that this alone is not enough. Is SNCB still considering other solutions to offset the impact of more telework? Do you think that SNCB should be given more freedom in charging? Then what steps would you take in this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u21	Madam President, Minister, I naturally agree with the questions that Mrs Verhaert has just asked. My two questions relate to two different subjects. It is somewhat unfortunate that they have been merged, because the off-peak rates are a different aspect or have a different dimension than the Flex Subscription, with which SNCB will now experiment. However, I shall put them one by one. Firstly, on the flexible subscription formula, SNCB has launched a proposal. It is interesting to have a look at the neighbouring countries in this respect. Recently, for example, the Dutch Railways announced that they want to work with new more flexible rates tailored to the travel behaviour of employees after the corona crisis, with more homework and fewer trips to the office. It is very important for SNCB to respond to this. That is why I have a number of questions. Firstly, SNCB is now launching a pilot project, which covers only 6,000 to 7,000 employees. Why is the project limited to that number of employees? Why is it not immediately opened up to anyone who wishes to make use of it? Secondly, how will SNCB determine who will be able to use that subscription? Thirdly, how will SNCB evaluate the project? Which parameters are included in the analysis? Fourthly, will third parties, such as Mobility as a Service players, be able to offer the flexible subscriptions? What possibilities do you and SNCB see for this? Finally, will you include greater flexibility in terms of tariffs in the management contract? How will you guarantee that SNCB will continue to be able to respond to the new trends in our work organisation and to ever-changing travel behaviour? I would like to ask one more question, because last week or early this week we received an opinion from the National Labour Council and the Central Business Council on the flexible subscription formulas for SNCB. Minister, have you received the advice? Do you take the necessary lessons from the advice? The opinion makes a number of pertinent comments which are important for the success of the pilot project with flexible subscription formulas. I'll go straight to my question about the off-peak rate. Also for this I got inspiration from what is going on at the Dutch Railways, where one comes with a few new discount tickets with which one wants to tempt the passengers to take the train again, after the quite significant decrease in the number of passengers during the corona period. They aim specifically at the off-peak hours, because they want to spread the crowds of the passengers on the trains. I'm gonna run those tickets anyway. One arrives in the Netherlands for example with an early-booked Balticket. This is an e-ticket that allows travellers to travel at a discount of 10% during off-peak hours, provided they purchase the ticket several days in advance. A second offer is a six-way ticket, also specifically for off-peak hours, with passengers receiving a 20% discount on the fixed journey, once again provided that those journeys take place during off-peak hours. Finally, there is also a custom group ticket for trips during the off-peak hours. Groups from two or three people can make a one-way trip at a fixed price to any station in the Netherlands, with an additional price of only 3 euros per extra traveller, which could be a very interesting offer for larger groups. The off-peak hours are valid in the Netherlands on working days for the time block from 00:00 to 6:30. In the Netherlands there are more night trains than with us. Also from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. and from 6.30 p.m. to 24 a.m. The director of the NS indicates that they want to use this way to spread the passengers and avoid the hyperspits, as they are called in the Netherlands. The theme of extremely busy trains during rush hours, especially with the corona times fresh in memory, is also a well-known problem for us. I therefore believe that we can get inspiration in the Netherlands. Hence my questions, Minister. Is SNCB also considering new initiatives to make and keep train journeys more attractive after the corona period? Are we also thinking about the problem of hyperspits? Are we also thinking of attracting new travellers, or extra travellers during off-peak hours, in order to ensure a better distribution of travellers? Finally, what options do you see for price differentiation in the off-peak hours? How do you feel about this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u22	Minister, as a Flemish nationalist, I like to read a French-language newspaper once in a while, if only to keep up with the growing Community differences. Last week my surprise was when I read an article in Sudpresse's newspapers entitled "Vers un tarif moins cher aux heures de pointe.Georges Gilkinet annonce le plan de reliance de la SNCB." It contained a fine text on how to consider a reduction in the ticket prices of SNCB during the rush hour. That surprised me, because it curses with what you have said in Parliament in explaining your policy statement. You stated that it was necessary to examine how fares could be adjusted and "in particular, to encourage the use of trains outside peak hours and at short and medium distances by offering attractive fares." So I'm wondering what's going on here. Do you want to lower the rates during peak hours or during off-peak hours, or perhaps both? What choices do you make in that? Have you changed your point of view and why? How do you see a solution to the problem of the low occupancy of trains during off-peak hours? What is your ambition and how will you translate it into management contracts?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u23	Mr Van den Bergh, Mrs Verhaert, Mr Roggeman, covid has accelerated the introduction of telework in many companies. Telework will undoubtedly continue to exist after the pandemic. It is important that SNCB adapts the offer of living-work subscriptions to this new reality. The pilot project with the flexible subscription for employees enables commuters who work on a regular basis to count on attractive rates adapted to their needs. That makes the train more attractive. I'm glad. The pilot project will be presented to some 6,000 employees of a number of large companies. The product will continue to be rolled out at the beginning of next year if it is positively evaluated after the pilot project. The product applies both to individuals and to companies and institutions in all sectors, i.e. both the public and private sectors. For companies, this product benefits from a significant simplification of administrative handling. There will be four flexible subscription choices. The customer can either opt for a subscription that allows him to commute 80 or 120 days of his choice to work in a period of 12 months, or 6 or 10 days of his choice per month. In the period of validity, the customer himself chooses the days on which he wishes to travel between two particular stations. The Flex Subscription is primarily a product aimed at the commuters, in which the use of the smartphone.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The existing subscriptions via MOBIB or on paper will continue to exist. The pilot project will be evaluated by the end of 2021. A digital solution was necessary, inter alia, because SNCB does not have validation devices and because the solution meets the aspirations of employers and SNCB provides essential information on travel patterns. The pilot project was only offered to third-party payers with a large number of subscriptions, without intermodal supplements. In the event of a national launch on the whole network, intermodal solutions will be available, but this can still be confirmed on the basis of the results of the pilot project. The pilot project could not be offered to B2B customers with a statutory employer's contribution or to B2C customers. If the Flex Subscription products are commercialised, they will be available to anyone who makes journeys with a fixed origin and destination. SNCB believes that this solution offers the best possible response to current and future developments in teleworking. She wants to test it, and I have every confidence in it. As I already wrote in my policy paper, in view of the evolution of teleworking and the adaptability of working hours, it is necessary to examine how the rates can be adjusted. The aim is, in particular, to encourage the use of trains outside peak hours and at short and medium distances by offering attractive fares. SNCB is constantly looking for new products that make traveling by train more attractive. SNCB sees a large occupation of its trains on weekdays in the morning and evening. Outside those times, the pressure on the trains is less high. After the health crisis, we all expect more passengers to catch the train again. SNCB is constantly looking at its strategy for off-peak hours. An example of her strategy for off-peak hours are the seniors and weekend tickets. Mr Roggeman, the sentence in question in both newspaper articles is probably a misrepresentation. Promoting train trips during off-peak hours is in the interests of everyone. SNCB sees additional scope to promote train traffic in off-peak hours and, on the basis of its customer data, examines the strategy best suited to its customers and its customers. With regard to the future transport ticket framework, I would like to inform you that on Friday 2 April 2021, on my proposal, the Council of Ministers launched the negotiations that should enable the federal government to conclude ambitious new management contracts with SNCB and Infrabel. After long negotiations, the new contracts will be concluded by the end of 2022 and will apply for a period of 10 years. Any specific change to the framework for ticket formulas will have to be assessed in the light of the overall picture of these future contracts.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u24	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You yourself pointed out that corona, with the result that the many telework, will have a lasting impact on SNCB. The fact that SNCB can adapt its transport and price strategy to this is a logical and good thing, both for the NBMS and for the traveller. I am therefore looking forward to the results of the pilot project. In your reply, however, I missed the parameters that would be used to evaluate this pilot project. In any case, I hope that it will be a positive evaluation and that this will be a first step towards further flexibilisation, simplification and autonomy for its pricing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u25	Thank you, Minister, for your answer, which contains many elements, but with which not all the questions have been answered, as Mr Verhaert has already pointed out. In my view, the evaluation parameters are an important element in a pilot project. I would also like to know whether the evaluation will be carried out in conjunction with the business community or the companies involved in the pilot project, which I believe is important, taking into account the advice of the National Labour Council and the Central Business Council of 29 June. That opinion contains many elements that require attention. Can the Flex Subscription be integrated into the third-party payment scheme or the 80/20 scheme? The price sensitivity is also a focus of attention. In addition, multimodality plays, the combination with parking at stations. Will you be able to do that in a flex rate? This does not seem to be the case today, which is why this is also an important point of attention. For example, I also mention the City Pass and its accessibility. Only an app is used, but what happens to the part-time paper subscription? How is the transition for employees who have a full-time subscription today, but who will switch to a part-time subscription in the future? All these different issues will have to be highlighted in the pilot project. For the time being, I do not hear much news about the questions about off-peak rates. In the Netherlands I see not only ideas, but some very concrete proposals and initiatives. I still miss it a little bit with the SNCB. However, I think the time is now ripe to look for ways to give train use an extra push, especially in the off-peak hours. It is now a good time to create additional incentives in this area. In that respect, I'm still a little hungry. We are therefore looking forward to further initiatives.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u26	Minister, like colleagues, I miss the answer to my question. I asked for your opinion on the pricing at peak hours, not in the off-peak hours, on which you gave a nice explanation. My question was: do you think yes or no a tariff reduction for SNCB products during peak hours? I didn't get an answer to that. You have made that promise in the press, and I note that you have neither confirmed nor refuted it in Parliament, so that we can only rely on what you say in the newspapers. I look forward to seeing what will happen: a reduction in both valley and peak hours, which are firm promises, and I wonder if you will realize them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u27	Minister, I refer to my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u28	Mrs Verhaert, I can give you the exact punctuality figures per station on the line in writing. In this way, you have a clear view of the places where the delays occur and are built up. SNCB informs me that more quality material will be used on the Turnhout-Binche line in the coming years. The M4 carriages and the AM66 will be completely removed from rotation and replaced by M6 carriages and classic motor sets. The exact timing indeed depends on the timing of the delivery of the M7 vehicles. I did not get an exact timing from SNCB for the answer to that question. In terms of infrastructure, the single-track sections Turnhout-Herentals-Lier-Kontich and La Louvière-Binche present some challenges. In addition, there are the various intersections of busy sections in Herentals, Lier, Mechelen-Nekkerron, Ecaussinnes and Mariemont. Finally, the works in Vilvoorde and Mechelen reduce platform capacity. Since most of the reasons for the delays on the line are not so much of an infrastructure nature, the question is whether infrastructure works would provide the quickest solution. Future transport plans may provide a way out of this. In the direction of Turnhout, the following elements, among other things, pose specific problems of the route. The IC22 from Brussels-Zuid to Antwerp-Central and the IC11 from Binche to Turnhout drive close to each other from Vilvoorde, especially about four to five minutes away. In Mechelen-Nekersrond the trains cross the S1 from Antwerp to Nivelles. In the direction of Binche the biggest delay is from Brussels-North due to the hustle and bustle on the north-south axis and other lines around Brussels.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u29	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I do like to receive the figures. The sad situation in the Kempen, with its poor punctuality and very outdated stations, has been raised here very often. I am pleased to hear that with the purchase of the M7 devices we can look forward to newer equipment. I hope that this time we will be at the top of the list, so that our region can count on more comfort on the train and better punctuality.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u30	Mr Toventers, Mr SNCB and Mr Infrabel tell me that the station at Wezemaal is being completely renewed in the context of the abolition of the road. A move is therefore not a matter for discussion. The station is made accessible autonomously and also equipped with new bicycle sheds and a car park. The start of the works is foreseen for the second quarter of next year. These are scheduled to end two years later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u31	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u32	Debates of the European Parliament Mr De Vuyst, Mr De Vuyst, Mr De Vuyst, Mr De Vuyst, Mr De Vuyst, Mr De Vuyst, Mr De Vuyst, Mr De Vuyst, Mr De Vuyst, Mr De Vuyst, Mr De
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u33	Minister, on 26 May 2021 I questioned you. You then gave a very detailed overview of the planned phases of delayed infrastructure in Dendermonde's station environment. A number of questions remained unanswered despite urging. That's why I'm making another attempt today. My questions are very simple and very concrete. I hope your answers will be as concrete as they are. According to the phases of your predecessor, the station parking in Dendermonde would first be paid for and then work on upgrading it. Is that still the point? Can you say specifically when the car park at the station in Dendermonde will be paying for travelers?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u34	Madam President, SNCB informs me that she has regular discussions with the city of Dendermonde on the arrangements for making the parking pay. SNCB is currently awaiting the decision of the College of Ships as to the timing of its implementation. We have already discussed the general framework conditions for the payment of station parkings several times in committee, as well as the future plans for the parkings. This was done, among other things, in the previous committee on questions from your colleagues Roggeman and De Spiegeleer. SNCB shall draw up a joint mobility plan each time in consultation with the local authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u35	I thank the Minister for his reply. I will certainly reconnect with our ship's college to follow up on the state of negotiations. That is what Mr Roggeman heard. I have followed Mr De Spiegeleer's questions about the payment parkings here and there. I draw the same conclusion as he drew at the time, namely that SNCB is doing so more quickly in Flanders and elsewhere than in the Brussels region. There I think it's just the parking lot of the station in Jette that's paying for the time being. That doesn't promise to change much. Perhaps you could urge SNCB not only to adjust to work, but also to distribute it a little more evenly across the country.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u36	Madam President, Minister, this question dates back to the end of May, but I would nevertheless like to put it to you. About the period of the submission of the question, I have received complaints about DIV service problems. The website would not function properly, so vehicle registration could not be done digitally. The processing of files was also delayed at that time. Mr. Secretary, are you aware of the problems at DIV? What was or is the cause? Why didn't the online application module work? What solutions do you see for the problem outlined?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u37	Mr Raskin, as a result of your question, I have asked my services. They have informed me that there are currently no problems with the services provided by the DIV. The deadline for the processing of applications is currently up to "day+2' (d+2) within the Internal Treatment Cell, which corresponds to the deadlines communicated on the FPS website. For applications for registration processed through the counters, agencies and insurers, the deadline is the day of the application itself. No difficulties were reported regarding the registration via WebDIV, the online application available to insurers. As a reminder, it is already possible to execute about 80 % of all subscriptions via WebDIV. In the near future it will also be possible to register second-hand motorcycles via the WebDIV application. As a result, the percentage of bids that can be made through the online WebDIV application will increase even further. At the beginning of this year, measures were taken to avoid the problems that have arisen in the past. In concrete terms, the DIV has set up a daily follow-up system of incoming requests so that they can be sent to the antenna services and counters to deal with them quickly and always within a maximum period of d+2.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u38	Minister, you refer to the problems at the beginning of this year and the subsequent processes to improve the quality of service. I welcome that. However, you had or have no knowledge of the problems I outlined. In your opinion, no difficulties have been reported, including on-line application. If that's the case, it's so much better. I'll check this out with the people who had questions about the service. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u39	Mr Thiébaut, my answer will be brief. Infrabel gives me the following information. In order to determine the programme of appropriate work, a supplementary study in the vibratory area and a 3D scan of the work (in this case, the Cuesmes Railway Bridge) were carried out. On the basis of the technical conclusions of these analyses, expected in the second half of this year, the infrastructure manager will then be able to finalize the tender dossier. Meanwhile, the work of art remains under surveillance. The situation is being followed with great attention by Infrabel – and I thank him for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u40	Minister, thank you. All I can say on the basis of your answer is that it really takes a lot of time. Meanwhile, the residents are not safe, pieces of the bridge falling into their street. I still invite you to put some pressure on these operators, because it really takes too much time in my view.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u41	That's a good note. I'll pay attention to this as to any file, Mr. Thiébaut.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u42	Minister, I refer to my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u43	Mrs Buyst, we have already talked about the importance of biodiversity and the role that railways can play in it. The realization of the promised ecoduct, as well as the necessary forest compensation, are puzzle pieces of that larger whole. I therefore welcome Infrabel's announcement that it has already listed an inventory. Infrabel has also identified a proposal with framework conditions and discussion points. Consultations with the different stakeholders will soon be planned so that the scope can be defined and approved by the different stakeholders concerned. Infrabel has drawn up a proposal for forest compensation. This will be discussed. The proposal on the table today consists of the construction of a bridge over which very limited motorised traffic, pedestrians and bicycles can also be used. From the second half of next year, construction would start according to the current schedule.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u44	Thank you for your answer. It is good that there is progress in the dossier. Since 2006, Infrabel has been promising that the ecoduct and forest compensation will be introduced. I am glad that steps are finally being taken. If I understand correctly, a number of things have been mapped out, consultations with stakeholders will take place in the near future and the berm bridge could be launched in the second half of 2021. We'll keep following up on the file. Indeed, Infrabel also has a role to play in the field of biodiversity.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u45	Mr Arens, an important modernization programme is under way at Arlon station, as in many other parts of the network, for three years now. Work will continue for the next two years. You will surely have noticed that this large construction site is sequenced in different phases of work. Infrabel informs me that, following a limitation of the cut-off, the current yard was stopped to allow another yard to take place on the line. As soon as these holes were reported, the company intervened to restore the coating to order and thus avoid any accident. No injuries were reported to me. Infrabel also informs me that further monitoring will be maintained in the future pending the finalization of the ongoing modernisation work.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u46	Minister, thank you for your answer. However, let me insist that this project proceed as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u47	Minister, following several suicides of people, the Friends of the Halanzy Rail asked Infrabel to place a protective grid at the level of the former Hachy crossing on line 162. This grid was to be placed by the end of 2020 but nothing was done. Minister, why couldn't this grid be placed? Is this a big job? How much does it cost? Infrabel invokes administrative problems to justify the delay: what are these problems? The grid should be laid before the end of 2021. Could you intervene so that this happens as quickly as possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u48	Mr Arens, Infrabel informs me that the placing of this fence must take place in the context of the public procurement linked to the anti-stress measures. However, the award of the contract in question proved to be too costly: the tender submitted was higher than the normal estimate of such a project. Unfortunately, therefore, the closure could not be placed as originally planned. In compliance with applicable regulations, a new contract has been launched and is expected to be awarded in September. As a result, this part of the work is expected to take place before the end of this year. In the meantime, a temporary fence will be installed – if not already done.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u49	Minister, thank you for your answers. I know the problems of public procurement. Sometimes there are important problems that make certain situations drag on. At least try, if not already done, to put in a temporary fence, which should not be very expensive.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u50	Madam President, Minister, tomorrow 7 July is exactly 11 years since the first licences were issued in bank card format to holders. That licence in bank card format should be renewed every 10 years. Last year people were delayed because of the corona pandemic. That postponement was until July 1st this year. So, almost a week ago, the allowed extension ended. The result is that the renewed driving licences must now be fully collected, to the extent that people are aware of this, because that is where the shoe is of course wringing. In early June, the Association of Flemish Cities and Municipalities (VVSG) sent another message to the world to warn people to check the validity date of their driving licence, because they are not notified of the renewal. People are used to getting an alert when their identity card expires and they have to renew it, but this does not happen for the driver's license. Minister, we have already discussed this with your predecessor. It would bear witness to good governance and good service to ensure such an alert. My question is therefore very simple: can you set up such a system so that people are informed when they need to renew their driving licence?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u51	Madam President, Minister, my question has the same context. The fact that more and more people will have to renew their driving licences in bank card models in the coming years is a problem. A lot of people aren't aware of that. Unfortunately, the cities and municipalities do not have the opportunity to send a message to residents whose driving licences will expire and to remind them of this. The FPS Mobility has been asked several times by different players to create a call system, as exists for identity cards. However, the FPS does not want to go into this for the time being. According to the FPS, every citizen has the responsibility to renew his driving licence in good time. The FPS only provides a poster that cities and municipalities can hang and distribute to encourage citizens to check the validity of their driving licences themselves. That is why I have the following questions. Firstly, Minister, do you support the attitude of the FPS Mobility? Does that attitude, in your opinion, bear witness to a customer-friendly service that a citizen of the government can expect? Secondly, why does the FPS actually refuse to develop such a call system, although that system already exists for Belgian identity cards? Thirdly, has the FPS Mobility considered or investigated other solutions? If you are aware of this, I would be glad to hear it from you. Fourthly, will you encourage FPS Mobility to engage in dialogue with cities and municipalities and to work together on a solution that benefits citizens? Thank you for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u52	Minister, I already questioned you about this issue on 2 December 2020. I also refer to the text of my question, because colleagues have already outlined the problem very extensively and I do not want to repeat it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u53	Thank you very much, Mr Van den Bergh, Mr Raskin and Mrs Verhaert. Unlike an ID card, there may be several reasons why the period of validity of the licence has expired. One is the expiry of the period of administrative validity, but equally important is the expiry of medical fitness or professional competence. The call for the renewal of identity cards is usually made by the municipalities, on the basis of lists made available by the National Register. However, for driving licences it is currently impossible to provide for a call system. According to the law on the Crossroads Bank, the Mercurius licence application does not keep addresses and the application does not have access to address data. So far there has been no need for that either. Indeed, from 2023, ten years after the year in which each municipality introduced the bank card model, more and more driving licences will expire administratively. I am aware that many citizens will not be thinking of renewing their driving licences. That is why I would like to use the next two years to further develop the information campaign on administrative renewal, so that it is sufficiently publicized. Digital and paper posters have already been made available to the municipalities, asking for information on administrative renewal to be disseminated as widely as possible in their information sheets and publications and on their website. The message was also spread several times through the social media of the FPS Mobility and Transport. The police were also asked to share as much information as possible on the renewal of the driving licence. The services of the National Register were also contacted to see if the call letter for renewal of the ID card could encourage citizens to check the validity of their driving licence. Cities and municipalities that call on their own citizens can indeed include this mention. These cities and municipalities will be written by my services. Setting up a reporting system would have a major administrative and budgetary impact. As already mentioned, the Mercurius licence application should first have access to the address of the holders of the driving licences. I will follow this file closely and will evaluate in 2022 which approach is best and how to develop a notification system with the municipality. To be followed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u54	In any case, Minister, I would like to thank you for your commitment to follow it closely and to see whether we can be re-directed and whether we cannot achieve a call system. As I said, as from 1 July there are expired driving licences, including the extension due to the corona pandemic. This year, now that a year has been postponed by 2020, I believe it is about 16,000 driving licences. By the year 2023, we are already talking about more than 300,000 driving licences. Those are important figures. I think it is right that at the end of the year we should look at how many of those 16,000 driving licences have been effectively renewed and what the needs are to make people even more aware, for example by calling them in. I believe that this will be the way forward. But we look forward to the evaluation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u55	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am pleased, as Mr Van den Berg said, that you are aware of the problem. It's, like he said, about a significant group. However, I would like to tell you that information campaigns, posters and information sheets will not suffice. I think it is a good idea that you are thinking along and that you are suggesting that you call for the renewal of the identity card. That is all well and good, but I think we should be aware that we are living in 2021. Where there's a will, there's a way. We will have to go to a system, otherwise it will cause serious problems. I would also like to call on you to assert your authority with regard to the FPS Mobility. A cool e-mail in which the FPS states that the citizen himself is responsible for renewing his driving licence is still more kafka than my idea of a customer-friendly government. The FOD may be right. Nevertheless, I believe that in 2021 some empathy and customer friendliness are desirable.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u56	Minister, I agree with the other speakers. I would also like to thank you for following up the file closely. However, I also share the concerns of both the VVSG and the Flemish Association of Officials and Officials Civil Status. In my capacity as mayor, I've been getting messages on a Sunday from people who had problems with the expiry of their driver's license. I therefore hope that we will find a solution before 2023 and that we will not wait too long, because at that time the great peak will be there. In view of the possible penalties and problems involved, such as an accident when the driving licence has expired, I hope that we will take the initiative earlier and find a solution to remind people that their driving licence will expire so that they can take an initiative. That would testify to a customer-friendly government.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u57	Madam President, Ms Van Bossuyt, DGLV's Passenger Rights Cell dealt with 825 files between 1 January and 31 May 2021. DGLV prefers not to initiate long-term criminal proceedings if this is not absolutely necessary, but instead to focus on continuing and flexible contacts with the airlines concerned so that solutions can be found in the short term. The enforcement authority did not wish to further hypothesize the already limited staff and operational resources, so that reimbursement files could be dealt with as quickly as possible. However, until now it has been decided not to initiate procedures, as DGLV considered it more appropriate to prefer a constructive dialogue to a sanctioning action. If, on the other hand, it were to be found that an air carrier maliciously failed to comply with its obligations, we would proceed with the initiation of criminal proceedings. For my part, I will not fail to remind them of their obligations with regard to passengers' rights at every meeting with the airlines' managers and to insist that a favourable outcome be achieved as soon as possible in the area of reimbursement. For example, the previous Brussels Airlines CEO confirmed to me that the airline had made up for all its delays and that there were only unclear or disputed cases left. During this discussion, the airline was very open about this issue. The Passenger Rights Cell held a meeting with the European Centre for Consumer Protection on 30 March 2021. In order to ensure smooth handling of complaints, it was agreed at the meeting to cooperate more. However, travel agencies or intermediaries are not covered by Regulation 261/2004, which means that the Passenger Rights Cell is not competent to address them. When passengers contact DGLV with complaints about their travel agency, DGLV refers them to the ECC. Conversely, the ECC will transfer complaints that cannot be resolved or complaints that remain out of response from the airline to DGLV, so that DGLV can take further control of the process. There is still the intention of several actors at the European level to revise the said Regulation. However, this work was shut down due to the health crisis. As the Portuguese Presidency will end in June 2021, the Slovenian Presidency will await the renewal of the proposal for reform of the Regulation. However, it is feared that the reform will only take place under the French Presidency at the beginning of January 2022. I will, of course, continue to pay attention to this and support any initiative that can strengthen the rights of air passengers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u58	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am particularly pleased with the different tone you have given in your answer than with previous questions on this subject. At that time, you always denied that there was a problem, and you now confirm that there was and still is a problem. I agree with you that you should not start criminal proceedings and sanctions immediately, but should first try to find a solution through a constructive dialogue. Of course, if there are airlines that systematically refuse to answer the questions asked, how far can we talk about dialogue? You cited Brussels Airlines. That is indeed one of the reactive airlines, which is among the better students of the class, unlike other airlines. I am thinking, for example, of Air France, Alitalia, easyJet, Iberia, KLM. It's a long list. I am also very pleased because you have finally contacted the European Centre for the Consumer, which has a great deal of experience in this area. That center also receives a lot of complaints. I believe that it is certainly a good thing that cooperation has now been set up. Finally, as regards the amendment of the Passenger Rights Regulation, we will indeed have to see what will happen under the Slovenian Presidency. I have a slight suspicion that Slovenia will have different priorities than this regulation, and that it will be ahead of the French Presidency. However, I would like to call on you to be very vigilant about new proposals to limit passengers' rights, in the sense that they would suggest that passengers should be entitled to reimbursement only after a much longer delay in their flight. These are things that we must keep in mind and which are not acceptable. Thank you for your answer and I will continue to follow it closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u59	Debates of the European Parliament 55018601C by Mrs Matz will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u60	Madam Chair, Minister, I have been asking about the realization of a multimodal platform in Viville for years. You seemed more inclined than your predecessor to carry out this project, which is very much expected in our region of South Luxembourg, close, as you know, to the city of Luxembourg. In my last question on this subject, at the end of March, you replied that you were waiting for objective and concrete elements of aid for the decision of SNCB concerning the car park in Viville. It seems that these elements were passed on to you since you said in the press that creating a car park in Viville before strengthening the offer of trains from Arlon to the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg would take the problem backwards. Minister, did the SNCB provide you with this argument? Is it this "objective and concrete element of decision support" that you were waiting for to finally decide on the future of this project? It has been years since the improvement of this supply of trains and the completion of work on axis 3 were promised to us. Did SNCB provide you this time with dates, figures, a budget? Which ones? You seem to think that the Park & Ride in Viville would be just a parking lot when it would be a real multimodal platform with carpool parking, bus station, bicycle parking. There is nothing to prevent the creation of this platform and the drafting of agreements with TECs in parallel with the improvement of Axis 3. Do you agree? Why not make simultaneous progress on both projects? What is the status of the work of the Walloon Minister of Mobility? Again about the Walloon Minister of Mobility, Mr Philippe Henry – your friend, I imagine – he said that the SCNB would no longer want to develop car parks, given the development of telework. Do you confirm this direction that SNCB would be giving to the future of the company's infrastructure?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u61	Mr Arens, the European Council held at the beginning of June in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg was a good opportunity for me to recall the common will of the Grand Duchy and Belgium to obtain European resources to speed up work on axis 3 Brussels-Luxembourg and, in general, to strengthen rail links between the province and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. This was the key message of the press conference with my excellent Luxembourg colleague François Bausch. I have no doubt that this message will have pleased you, especially since it is in addition to significant progress on rail links in your province over the past few years. I would like to remind them of the objective nature of the debate. Since December 2017, there is an hourly link per direction rather than every two hours on line 154-166 Namur-Dinant-Libramont. Since December 2017, there is an hourly link per direction rather than every two hours on line 165-167 Libramont-Virton-Athus-Arlon. Since October 2020, thanks to the completion of the works, there is an hourly link per direction rather than every two hours on line 162 Libramont-Marbehan-Arlon with 36 daily connections at Arlon station to the city of Luxembourg (train L). Since December 2020, there is an hourly link per direction rather than every two hours on the line 42 Liège-Gouvy-Arlon. For the future, my priority is to improve the frequency of trains for the province of Luxembourg and the Grand Duchy. We want to allow more people to travel by train. Given the number of commuters, at least in the pre-covid period, it is a major issue in terms of the pressure on cars to the Grand Duchy and its economic and environmental consequences. In response to a question about the Viville car park project, I did reply that it was a matter of taking the problem in the right direction and giving priority to the rail service and then to consider the best solutions in terms of parking and accessibility to the different modes, no more or less. Today, the rail offer from Viville five minutes from Arlon is anything but competitive or attractive since you have to take a L train to Arlon and Arlon, waiting for a link to Luxembourg. Viville's current car park is totally underutilized despite the small number of available spaces. In the past, taking the problem backwards has led to investment choices that were not optimal at SNCB level. I am thinking, for example, of the construction of a Park & Ride car park in Louvain-la-Neuve, which is now desperately empty after major public spending. This is a situation that I do not wish anywhere else. When the means are scarce, it is a matter of using them in the most intelligent way possible. Rather than running head down, you first have to find solutions to drive trains and then decide on the layout of the car parks. I found this file empty in October last year. I have been working on this since then and have planned various meetings with SNCB and my Luxembourg colleagues in the coming weeks. Therefore, I repeat, further strengthening the collaborations between the Luxembourg railways, SNCB and rail services between the province and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg is one of my priorities. I have no doubt that we will have the opportunity to talk about it regularly, Mr Arens, since I know you are diligent on this issue, and you are right. You can also tell your fellow citizens of all the progress already made in terms of rail links to the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u62	Minister, thank you for your answer. However, I would like to stress that rail services can be provided in parallel with the development of this multimodal platform in Viville. You know just as well as I do in the city of Arlon, there are SNCB parking lots, but they lack space. Two or three kilometres away, there is this important site in Viville that once hosted railway workshops and has a number of hectares of land. There is, therefore, sufficient room to deal with the problem of mobility to Luxembourg. Today, as you yourself said, there are so many cross-border workers that the entry of Luxembourg becomes as complicated as that of Brussels, if not more. I therefore urge you to make every effort to ensure that this Park & Ride in Viville is implemented very quickly, as part of the Belgian-Luxembourg collaboration co-financed by Europe for interrail projects. Mr Minister, you did not answer the question I asked orally, namely that SNCB would no longer want to develop car parks. That is what your colleague Philippe Henry explained to the Walloon Parliament. If this is the position of SNCB for all regions of our country, I find it regrettable.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u63	Madam President, Minister, through Infrabel's spokesperson, we heard that a railroad worker in critical condition was brought to hospital on 8 June 2021 at 3.30 a.m. It's a work accident. This employee was working on the railway yard between Marloie and Ciney in the province of Namur through a subcontractor of Infrabel. The worker was electrocuted and then died. First of all, I would like to express my sincere condolences to the family. Minister, what was the conclusion of the Labour Auditorate? Was it an effective work accident? Any mistakes made by Infrabel's sub-contractor? If so, which one? We see that more and more subcontractors are operating on our railways. Does this not contribute to the increase in insecurity during work on our railways? What measures will Infrabel take to ensure the safety of all workers, including subcontractors? Shouldn't Infrabel, in your opinion, use its own staff instead of working with often foreign subcontractors? What further measures do you intend to take in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u64	Mrs Vindevoghel, the worker in question has unfortunately died. I would therefore like to express my express condolences to the family, friends and colleagues of the man. We must make every effort to ensure that such tragedies do not repeat themselves. Infrabel tells me to do his utmost to ensure that it does not happen again and that it always regards safety as an absolute priority. For Infrabel, this applies to all yards, without any distinction between yards with or without subcontracting. Work on the railways is very specific. That explains the very strict safety rules that are being applied. After the accident, the police came to the scene to perform various tasks. An investigation was initiated by Namur's Labour Auditorate. I do not know any more about the investigation at this time. As regards your second question on security measures, I would refer you to my reply in committee on 30 March 2021. I believe that working with subcontractors or not is subordinate to the question of whether everyone respects the necessary security measures. On the basis of the information provided by Infrabel, I note that Infrabel sets the bar very high, both for its subcontractors and for its own staff in terms of the safety of its infrastructure. However, there is always room for improvement. I will continue to press for this particularly in the context of the discussions on Infrabel's future performance contract. Moreover, contractors and subcontractors can sometimes be highly specialised in certain activities, which can increase the level of safety. In this sense, the consideration of whether or not to work with subcontractors is subordinate to the question of whether everyone follows the necessary safety rules. That is an absolute priority for me.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u65	Mr Minister, this is the second fatal accident this year with subcontractors. Every fatal accident is one too many. I've been through it myself at work before, and I can assure you that something like this has a big impact on a human being. At that time I felt very responsible for the people in such incidents as déléguée. Hence my concern and my frequent questions about safety issues; this is very close to my heart. People have the right to go safely to work and return safely. Imagine if you were at risk of your husband or wife not returning home from work. I sincerely hope that we will be able to include a number of safety issues in that management agreement. I myself am convinced that there are more security risks with subcontractors than when the work is in the hands of Infrabel's own employees. I'm definitely gonna keep following that up.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u66	Madam President, Minister, I will confine myself to the questions themselves because they are very topical. Firstly, has any decision been taken to extend the measures on the cancellation of lane fees beyond 30 June 2021? Is there any evidence of this? Secondly, is effective aid calculated per kilometre travelled or are there other forms of compensation? If so, what are the modalities? Thirdly, can you provide more information on exact procedures and procedures for applying for the fees? How and by what means does a rail freight operator apply for the concession? Fourthly, when could applications be submitted? After all, there are a lot of uncertainties in this respect for the sector itself.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u67	Madam President, Mr De Spiegeleer, it is currently being examined whether these aid measures for rail freight can be extended beyond June. If a political agreement is reached, the dossier will be submitted to the Council of Ministers. The implementation of the measures already planned by the government for the first half of the year depends on the approval of the European Commission. The same applies to their possible extension. The reduction in the infrastructure charge is directly proportional to the number of kilometres travelled at EUR 0.75 per train kilometre. The abolition of cancellation fees is linked to any cancellation of a train path reservation. From the date of entry into force of the measures, the aid shall be granted directly by Infrabel either in the form of a reduction in the invoice or in the form of a refund for the previous period. Railway undertakings do not have to take any action.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u68	Thank you, Minister, for your answers, which could be somewhat reassuring. It seems, however, that there is a communication problem with the sector itself. After all, the answers you have given here have not yet reached the sector. We are now 6 July 2021. The extension beyond 30 June 2021 remains to be discussed. It is clear that non-respect of a promised term is not a desirable way of working. This is also the ambition of modal shift or rail freight access to ports. It therefore creates little confidence when we cannot respect deadlines and dates. So this case is undoubtedly being prosecuted here in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u69	Mr Minister, on 1 June there was an incident on railway line 82 at the crossing at the Beekstraat-Lindekouter. That incident is not only regrettable, but was already coming a long way. It is one of the few unguarded considerations in the Dender region. It has been asked for a long time to improve the security of the road through barriers. This incident has raised a number of questions, which have already been raised but which I would like to repeat. Are you aware of this incident? Has Infrabel sat around the table with local authorities, especially the municipality of Erpe-Mere, and possibly regional advisory councils? Is such consultation planned? Does Infrabel intend to provide this passage with barriers? I think that would be desirable. If not, will Infrabel provide other solutions? If so, which one?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u70	Madam President, Infrabel informs me of the incident. The corresponding crossing 10.1 is a very local, slanted crossing between the fields on a line with little passage. Infrabel has already proposed to connect the Beekstraat in the south to the Lindekouter. For example, the safer consideration 12 and 10 can be used for crossing traffic. Considerations 10.1 and 11.1 would be replaced by a section along the way. The municipality of Erpe-Mere has not yet given a definitive reply. The FPS Mobility determines the minimum requirements for the safety device on a road. Each closed barrier must leave an opening of 2.8 metres for emergency services and as an escape route. At the same time, any barrier must reach at least half the road. A few years ago, with the FPS Mobility, Infrabel already made a place visit to see if the placement of barriers was technically possible. However, it was concluded that the district width is insufficient to meet the above conditions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u71	Mr Minister, I naturally regret from Flemish Interest in the Dender region that the answer I was unfortunately expecting does not contribute much or nothing to the incident that has happened. I had expected or hoped that something extra would be put into motion, but that is not the case. You say that there is little passage to the crossing in the Beekstraat, but that is, of course, susceptible to perception. I disagree. The locals do not agree with that either. Safety is the term used to protect yourself, Infrabel and co. The only option is therefore to provide a guarded crossing on line 82 there. Moreover, under the Infrabel Boost Plan, line 82 was allocated EUR 1.5 million, which we naturally fully support. The security of that was all over that budget of 1.5 million euros but a bummer. Finally, but not least, I find it remarkable that the municipality of Erpe-Mere, from which I know a ship quite well, has not yet taken any initiative with regard to you. You have just said it yourself to use that incident as an additional means of pressure to deal with this problem, in any way. I take note of that, of course.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u72	Madam President, Minister, a train journey between Mol and Neerpelt celebrated the end of electrification works on railway line 19 on Thursday 10 June last. From now on, passengers will finally be able to use electric trains. This is better for the environment and reduces costs. The electrification is an important step in improving the train supply in northern Limburg. Especially for the occasion the modern Desiro trains were taken from stables. That brings me to the following questions. Will Desiro trains also be used on the new electrified line Antwerp-Hamont? If not, with which coaches does SNCB want to operate that line Antwerp-Hamont? Finally, which coaches will operate the fast connection Neerpelt-Brussels?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u73	Madam President, I would like to thank the Minister for coming to the first train in our region. That was a festive moment. But a new train line also brings with it some questions. There is now a direct link between Neerpelt and Brussels, which is a very good thing. Only it deviates a bit from the existing connection from Mol with two trains, while only one runs from Neerpelt. Will that change in the future? Is there supposed to be two connections there, both in the morning and in the evening? As the colleague says, there are now finally electric trains in the north of Limburg: we go from 0 to 40%, which is a good thing. Is it intended to gradually increase that percentage? What are the plans for that? A little damper on the party joy was that the vehicles do not have air conditioning. We all know that this is certainly not a luxury on such a long connection. Is it supposed to fix that problem? Finally, the minister's predecessor, Mr Bellot, always indicated that that line had far too many stops. He said he'd sit down with the mayors from the region to check it out. There are 16 stops between Neerpelt and Brussels. I wonder if it is still intended to abolish a number of stops, or will the line remain as it is today?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u74	Madam President, since 14 June 2021, IC trains have been operating on weekdays between Antwerp and Hamont during peak hours with a T27 locomotive and M5 double decks. In doing so, SNCB makes about 40% of the trains run on the connection electrically. At the other times during the week and at the weekend, the SNCB AR41 diesel engine vehicles are used. Further deployment of electrical equipment on the line depends on the release of other equipment and on the electrification of the section Mol-Hasselt. The M5 double deck trains already offer 10 % extra seating capacity. In this way, SNCB anticipates at peak when passengers gradually start taking the train again. There will be no Desiro train sets on the new electrified line. The Mol-Hamont section is still single-track, with a limited number of intersections. It is not possible for all P trains between Mol and Brussels to extend the route, because of the combination of separate journeys, freight trains, cadanised supply and peak hours on a single track. SNCB has chosen to maintain the stops between Herentals and Lier on the P-trains for the time being, mainly in order to maintain the offer for passengers from Nijlen, Bouwel and Kessel. A few weeks ago, I had the pleasure of visiting your very beautiful region on the occasion of the completion of the electrification works of the Mol/Hamont line. The electrification of the line already makes it possible to use electrical equipment in the morning and evening on the rush hour connections towards Brussels and Antwerp, thus improving the occupational mobility of the inhabitants of your region. This electrification is also important for the future use of the freight line. The next step is to invest in sufficient rolling stock, in particular the M7 or other equipment. Investing in suitable modern rolling stock is of course one of my priorities for the following years.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u75	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I understand that this is a step-by-step approach. One starts with an offer of 40% in rush hour. That's good. When I see that the fine fleur comes down to Limburg at the opening of the overhead line and even brings in a reliable Desiro machine, I immediately ask myself whether it will be the same when it is up to the travellers. That will not be the case, because you confirm that the line will become wider with the M5 devices. Everyone knows that this is the nightmare of every train guide and every traveler. Those are defective doors and trains without air conditioning. These are trains with a malfunctioning inverter, so that train stops more than it drives. We have fought for years for better services in Limburg and for this dossier in North Limburg, thanks to the efforts of the Limburg Ministers and many colleagues in Parliament. During the Swedish government we finally got electrification in the multi-annual investment plan. Now that's rolled out and we're gonna have to do it with throwaways, M5 machines, with Vivaldi. I think this is a missed opportunity. I would like to ask you, as a signal to the traveller and also to our neighbors in the Netherlands who we want to connect to, to guarantee you reliable trains. We must serve the traveller in Limburg properly. We really should not give the Netherlands any argument for not meeting our demand for a cross-border connection.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u76	Madam President, Minister, for the sake of clarity, we are very satisfied with electrification and with the new connections. However, there is clearly still a margin for growth. As an ecologist, Minister, you will agree with me that this needs to grow in the field of electric trains. You also say that investment will be made in new train sets. This investment is absolutely necessary, especially in terms of its quality. I have already pointed out that travellers from that region are often on their way for a long time. This remains an important challenge. Finally, you have touched another challenge, namely the single track. That's right. With the arrival of new connections to freight transport, the single track is also a threshold that will have to be worked on.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u77	Madam President, Minister, you will hear me again with the Kempen. We continue to be plagued by delays and obsolete devices. I am glad that we are not going one step backwards and that the ministry between Herentals and Lier is maintained. I hope that this may prove to be the case in the future. After all, I recently heard at a meeting with the Kempense representatives that a total of only thirty seconds of profit would be made. It seems to me to be awesome to delete it and to reduce the supply. You also replied to my previous question that with the influx of the M7 there is also a recovery coming. I repeat once again my appeal to put the Kempen at the top of the list this time so that we can keep up with the rest of Flanders.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u78	Madam President, Minister, the European Regulation 1191/69 on the liberalisation of the railways is one of the important decisions in the regulatory framework on the 4th railway package. Article 8 of that Regulation states that within 6 months of 25 December 2020, Member States should submit a progress report to the European Commission on the introduction of public service contract award. If we calculate for a second, we'll see that that deadline was June 25, 2021, so last week. Does the scheme also apply to the public service contract with SNCB, which needs to be renewed? How's the progress report coming? Will that be delivered to the European Commission in time for 25 June? Could you give me a tip of the veil on the content of the progress report? Does this include more than what you had included in your policy statement and government agreement? If so, in what sense?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u79	Madam President, Minister, my question is also about the management agreements to be concluded, but has a different approach. The Central Council for Business (CRB) and the National Labour Council (NAR) ask the federal government to quickly implement the new management agreements with the railway entities. With that question they are not alone: I think everyone is asking. Both councils delivered a nice advisory paper, in which they give a lot of concrete substantive advice, including on the SMART principle, KPIs, role distribution and coherence, punctuality, pricing policy and technological issues. In particular, they stress the need to conclude a clear and forward-looking management agreement in a predictable and stable financial framework, with a clear strategic railway vision aligned with the Regions. Attention should also be paid to the organisation of the rail market after 2033. What is the status of the management agreement to be concluded with SNCB? When will the Minister submit a draft management agreement with SNCB to the members of this Chambers Committee, if he intends to do so at all? In the context of inter-federal coordination of the various modes of transport, did specific consultations with the Regions take place? If so, what was the content of that consultation and what concerns were raised? If not, is there another meeting planned? Can the Minister confirm that the next management agreement with SNCB will run for 10 years? In this case, how does the Minister intend to allocate and guarantee a stable and unchangeable financial framework to SNCB? Finally, as far as involvement is concerned, will you address the CRB and the NAR's questions in order to involve them in the preparation of the new management agreement? What other bodies and opinions may be involved in the preparation of the management agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u80	Madam President, Mr Roggeman, Mr Toventors, the public service contract between the State and SNCB is covered by Article 8.2 of the publicly owned public service contract. The progress report on the entry into force of Article 5 of this Regulation is now being finalised. This report was delivered to the European Commission, respecting the deadline of 25 June 2021. This report effectively takes back the most pertinent parts of the coalition agreement, of my general policy paper, and of the Belgian National Recovery Plan. It sets out the stages completed with a view to preparing and drawing up the future public service contract of SNCB. This includes the publication of the specification of the public service and the consultation of the various participating parties. It also provides an overview of the next steps in the process leading to the conclusion of this important contract. Mr Toventos, for the rest of your questions I can refer you to my answers in this committee on 17 March and 26 May. In summary, thematic meetings with the railway companies will take place in an ambitious rhythm to explore specific issues. The aim is to achieve a coherent, ambitious and realistic path for rail in this country over the next ten years, both in terms of increasing supply and use of trains and the quality of service, and in terms of efficiency and efficiency in the use of public funds. In addition, regular meetings are organised with numerous stakeholders, in the context of the negotiations on the future contract. They will continue. As you could read in the report of the Central Council for Business and the National Labour Council, the opinion is an answer to a question on my part. As you could also read in the report of the CRB and the NAR, a consultation meeting with them was held on 4 May. This consultation was mutually appreciated. Of course, this cooperation process will continue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u81	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, my question concerns what should not be overlooked at any moment of the year. What is inconceivable happened again this week, this time in my commune in La Louvière. It was 11 p.m. Thursday evening, June 9, when the drama occurred. In a car, three young people in the flower of age returned from an evening in the centre of Quévy. The driver bypassed the R5 motorway ramp in Jemappes. Unfortunately, there was a death of a 19-year-old man named Mathieu. There are a number of reasons for this, including speed at the wheel. While all indicators showed a positive trend during the covid, as several confinements followed, with a decline of 19% in accidents and 22% in victims, unfortunately and in a predictable way, the reopening of bars seems to interrupt this trend. After the bars, the festivals will start and the world of night will reopen. These are places where young people often consume more alcohol than elsewhere, thereby increasing the risk of serious road accidents. Mr. Minister, driving alcohol is a major concern in our country and requires a major prevention effort, particularly among young people, but also extensive police checks. However, our law enforcement forces are already heavily mobilized at the borders for the covid controls we know. However, if speed control does not necessarily require a human presence, the control of blood alcohol is different. Therefore, Minister, can you provide me with the statistics related to the blood alcohol tests in recent months and those planned for the next few months? What additional measures are you planning to limit road accidents, and in particular to make young drivers aware of the fatal consequences of an accident under the influence of alcohol? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u82	Dear colleague, the accident you are reporting is a real tragedy and my thoughts go first and foremost to the relatives and family of the deceased. As the father of two young adults, this new tragedy particularly affects me and motivates me more to implement our government's high road safety goals. As far as your specific questions are concerned, apart from the BOB campaigns, the police do not have an obligation to register the alcoholics carried out. Therefore, it is not possible for me to provide the exact number of alcoholics in recent months as well as the number of those that will be carried out this summer. However, I can give you the figures from last winter's BOB campaign, a little particular given the confinement. There were approximately 110,000 blood alcohol tests, four to five times less than usual. [[The number of positive tests was 2.2%, an increase of 0.3% over the previous two years, despite the closure of the horeca sector.]] Unlike the winter BOB campaign, the police never use target numbers for the summer BOB campaign. You can ask my colleague the Minister of the Interior about this. With regard to road safety, the Government's objective is clear and ambitious: to reduce to a minimum of half, (each death being too many deaths) the number of deaths or serious injuries by 2030 to a target of zero casualties by 2050. In order to achieve these ambitions, we must - together with my fellow Ministers of the Interior and Justice - increase the risk that drivers will get controlled. For example, one in three drivers will be checked each year to check their speed, alcohol or drug use, whether or not to wear seat belts, whether or not to use mobile phones at the wheel - a real road safety issue. But information and awareness also play a very important role. Since the beginning of this year, people receiving an immediate perception of a so-called minor offence related to driving alcohol also receive, with their PV, an awareness sheet. This fact sheet highlights the risks of driving under the influence of alcohol. Other measures are taken, such as devices preventing the car from starting in the event of alcohol consumption. More and more people are condemned to use these particularly effective devices and to take training, because I also want to focus more on educational and alternative measures by offering, for example, training instead of immediate perception. I also want to try to change the behaviour of repeat offenders by offering them, in addition to implementing a system of gradual sanctions, training. I think that young people will also benefit from this type of approach because they are more sensitive to changing behaviour and habits. This priority was the subject of a meeting with the Federal Road Safety Commission (FCSR) two weeks ago. I have instructed her to formulate proposals which will be reworked next autumn for the next states-general of road safety, to which I will associate my colleagues in charge of road safety in the Regions. Indeed, the stakes that you are raising today, which are perhaps too often on the agenda of our committee, must mobilise all of us.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u83	Minister, thank you for your answer. I see that you have already analysed the issue well and that the project is ambitious. I will come back with pleasure to see what has been put in place. I see that there is a very educational aspect. In truth, our young people really need this from an early age.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u84	In a lighter register, good match tonight! (Ms Leoni wears an Italian jersey.)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u85	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u86	Mr Parent, we share the same objective. We are committed to accessible, quality and community-based public services throughout the country, including in rural areas. This is specifically the menu of our discussions with SNCB for live and welcoming stations. I'll meet you. This is an important subject because it can form the basis for the development of tomorrow's stations. This "live stations" operation was launched quickly and continues between SNCB and the municipalities. Many contacts have taken place and many ideas of occupation have been formulated (municipal services, bicycle points, commercial operators or non-profit organisations) and agreements have even been reached with some municipalities, but work is continuing. In this same context and at my request, contacts were made by SNCB with bpost. With regard to the installation of post offices in stations, discussions were under way for seven stations but bpost announced that it would abandon this runway after analysis of potential. This was announced by my colleague Petra De Sutter in the same committee on 8 June 2021. A second track, however, is currently under consideration: the sale of SNCB tickets at post offices. Discussions with bpost are ongoing. Potential collaboration would include subscriptions. In view of the complexity of the manufacture (calculation of prices according to distance, paying third party), it is not envisaged at this stage to carry out the entire sales process at bpost but to facilitate the preparation of the file for the customer. At this stage, the project covers the 44 stations that SNCB will close by the end of the year. My firm regularly follows up with SNCB on the progress of the discussions and the implementation of the initiatives for these 44 stations concerned with a window closure. But, in a second stage, it is envisaged that these steps can be extended to other stations which have experienced a window closure before. Many of them have buildings that could be usefully occupied. This model of "living hotels", I want to amplify it and apply it throughout the country. I am also implementing what is necessary to include it in SNCB's future public service contract with concrete objectives in terms of reception and passenger services at railway stations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u87	Minister, thank you for your answers. I do believe that this is an important issue which must also be reflected in the discussions on the bpost management contract. bpost offices must become places that respond to a number of new missions to support issues of vulnerability and digital divide. Both dynamics must be able to intersect in a concrete way. I hope to have as soon as possible the concrete results of the discussions that have been under way for some time. You mentioned the end-of-year date for the closing of the counters. It is important that this decision can take shape in this context at the level of the agenda in order to offer a service, a compensation to citizens in situations of digital vulnerability. This is particularly important in rural areas. I am pleased that the reflection may be extended, in a second stage, to stations which have already been closed. I also think it will be necessary to analyse the situation of stations which have experienced a sharp reduction in timetables. Timely accessibility, in addition to pure and long-term closures, can be detrimental to citizens and of concern in certain situations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u88	Minister, a while ago we were informed of a new cost-benefit study to be carried out on the 3RX route for the Iron Rhine. That rail link offers an alternative to the historic route that hit resistance from the Netherlands. Could you explain the new investigation a little bit more? What is the cost of it, in total and for Belgium? When can we expect the results of that investigation? The previous investigation did not take into account the railway curve in Venlo that is necessary to trace directly from Roermond to Germany. Is it true that these costs will be included in the review? Along the Dutch side one would gradually make an opening for the file. Is that your feeling, too? You have already replied to my last question after a question from Mr Toventors earlier this afternoon.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u89	Mr President, my questions are very much in line with the questions put by Mr Raskin. I refer to the written presentation of my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u90	Madam President, Minister, I too would like to refer to the text of my question as tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u91	Mrs Verhaert, Mr Raskin, Mr Tusters, the reactivation of the Iron Rhine, the rail link between the port of Antwerp and the German Ruhr area, has already been thoroughly investigated and documented in the past. Until a few years ago, the conclusion was that two strategic options remained to the east of Roermond. The first was the reactivation of the historic Iron Rhine, the second was the construction of a new railway line along the A52 motorway in Germany. A few years ago the feasibility of a third option, the so-called Rhein-Ruhr-Rail Connection, was studied, abbreviated 3RX. This 3RX focuses on improving a number of existing sections in the Meuse-Rhine-Ruhr border area that links Weert with Viersen via Roermond and Venlo. The public contract, which will be launched this autumn, will update the cost-benefit analysis (MKBA) of four years ago. This was part of the then feasibility study commissioned by Flanders for the 3RX project. This update will be based on new relevant elements and figures. Updating means first taking into account or quantifying different elements that have not yet been included in the original SMEA. In addition, an update constitutes an effective update of elements that have already been taken into account in the previous social cost-benefit analysis. The three countries concerned, including Flanders on the Belgian side and North Rhine-Westphalia on the German side, will sign a three-part cooperation agreement. The aim will be to place the contract on the market, to designate the appropriate study firm and, of course, to manage the follow-up to the contract. The contract will normally start this autumn and will take about one year. As regards the opening on the Dutch side, I can tell you that the information referred to is not new information. The newspaper reports refer to the same agreement on the update that my predecessor already explained to Mr Raskin in the Mobility Committee on 1 July 2020. This is now brought to the attention again by the attention to completing electrification works on railway line 19. As you know, the 3RX project has been followed for three years by an international working group. The Working Group already decided in June 2020 to update the existing SMEA for this pathway. By the way, it is the FPS Mobility and Transport that has the lead of that project. The Belgian administration will therefore be responsible for drawing up and publishing the specifications for the update of the SMEA, in close consultation, of course, with the administrations of the Netherlands and Germany. The agreement is that each country bears a third of the total cost of the study. That can therefore indeed be interpreted as an opening to seek a solution to the dossier. The exact cost will only be known after receipt of the tender and award of the contract. The contract will normally start this autumn and will take about a year. The results are therefore expected by the end of 2022. As far as the question on Hamant-Weert is concerned, I refer you to the other answers I have given today. Mr Toventors, there have been four international steering committees on 3RX since 2018. During the process there was also, of course, repeated consultation by e-mail and telephone. In addition, there have been repeated bilateral contacts over the past four years, both with the Netherlands and Germany, with the Iron Rhine being discussed. There was also regular consultation with Flanders on the progress of the dossier. Finally, I come to your fifth question. Since the costs of the update study are shared by the three countries, the use and publicisation of the results will have to be decided by mutual agreement. Mrs Verhaert, you are asking a number of pertinent questions about mitigating measures, citizen participation and information campaigns. All these elements are very important to me, and I would like to thank you for drawing my attention to the study by the Intercommunal Development Society for the Kempen. As I have only received your question very recently, I regret to say that I cannot go into more detail about the specific elements, but I can certainly come back to them later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u92	Thank you, Minister, for your very comprehensive reply. I am glad that the file is not dead and that there is an actualization of a cost-benefit study that has already been carried out. That's not a bad thing. As you say, there are a number of new elements, such as the climate challenge and the Green Deal, ambitions that make this dossier likely to fall into the right fold sooner or later. I look forward to the study that will start soon and to its results next year. This remains an important dossier for me because the reactivation of the Iron Rhine will not only ensure that freight transport will reach the Ruhr area in a more sustainable way, given its shorter distance, but will also meet the demand for a better service to the traveller in the rest of Limburg who is confronted with overcrowded roads through freight transport that now almost all have to go via the Montzenroute to the Ruhr area.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u93	Thank you, Minister, for your very comprehensive and detailed reply. However, I do not share the joy of the previous speaker. I think this file is becoming one of the most studied files in this country's rail history. So we're updating a study four years ago. This study will be launched in the autumn and it will last another year. Then, by analogy with other files, she might end up in a desk drawer, which might allow us to do another update and a new study of the actualization within two or three years. I remember that we had received a proposal on this project from the Flemish Minister for Mobility's cabinet, Mrs Peeters, and that her colleague came to tell us, on the basis of the 3RX study, that a possible realisation in the best scenario, i.e. without procedures, was estimated at 23 years. Now we want to get a new study done. The reply shows that after the previous 2018 study, the Steering Committee met four times over three and a half years. The impotence and incompetence of political governance cannot be better reflected than in the case in question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u94	Thank you, Minister, for your very comprehensive answer. I understand, of course, that you have not yet been able to go through the study or the IOK document. I'm glad you share our concern. After all, the dossier is extremely sensitive for all residents and also for the municipalities concerned. I am confident that you will involve them and allow them to participate. After all, it will not be the first and certainly not the last file to fail because the inhabitants will be involved far too late and decided above their heads. I hope that we can work together on the matter and certainly involve the local people sufficiently in the dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u95	Apparently, on 16 June, you caught yourself in unacceptable behavior. This can be seen from the Twitter activity of the airport ombudsdienst. After all, your cabinet cancelled a visit to the ombudsdienst at a quarter to twelve in the afternoon without explanation. The question is, of course, what to make of that. After all, it is not the first time that the ombud service has caused some eyebrows to frown. Where's this gonna go? I have already asked you, when discussing the policy paper, how you wanted to monitor the quality of the ombuds service. When I look at this exchange of ideas, it is still necessary to take steps. You also know that the legal basis for this ombud service is quite thin. That is just the Royal Decree of 15 March 2002, which does not even have a real legal basis in higher legislation. We are also in the rather unhealthy situation that the head of the service was appointed indefinitely. He's never been evaluated by anyone. In the meantime, he worked for a secretary of state for a few years, but then he just came back and nothing else happened. This is very different from any other ombud service operating in this country. What do you learn from the ombudsdienst's communication? Do you intend to develop a proper legal framework for this ombud service as exists for so many ombud services, such as those in the energy sector?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u96	On June 16th I did indeed visit skeyes. It was a long planned work visit to skeyes and his services. The office of the ombudsdienst is currently hosted by skeyes, but is not part of skeyes. It is important that the ombudsdienst is and remains functionally independent. Therefore, there was never any meeting with the ombudsmen on that day. I agree with you that the legal framework of the ombudsmen service is particularly lean and that this needs to be strengthened. It would be interesting to draw inspiration from other ombudsmen to establish a clearer statute with a fixed term mandate and the possibility of evaluation. We will explore this path in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u97	Minister, I am pleased to hear your answer. I think this has been necessary for years. That's why I'm glad you want to take the step. In that respect, I agree with you more than the ombudsmen are following you. But that's an aside. We will follow it closely, of course, but it is in everyone's interest that the ombud service should be strengthened in the legal field so that it can compete with other ombud services in this country. I think that is what our citizens need.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u98	Ladies and gentlemen, I have received an interview from Mrs Vindevoghel on point 44 of the order of business. The Rules of Procedure of the Chamber say that an interplay must be dealt with within two weeks. We will not reach the end of our agenda today. After all, the Minister can stay until 5.30 p.m., he has reported us. That is why I would suggest that we deal with the interplay now. I can also see that Mr Vandenbroucke and Mrs Willaert are here. They have a combined question. With your permission, I would now like to place it on the agenda. I only agree with the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber that an interplay should be dealt with within two weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u99	Of course, we must respect the Rules of Procedure. Is there another question before Parliament goes into recess?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u100	I do not know, but I suggest that we discuss this with the Minister at the end of the meeting so that we can now begin the interplay.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u101	Madam President, Minister, at the end of May I already questioned you about the sale to the highest bidder of the Ghent Arsenal site. This is an area of 13 hectares, so about fifteen football fields, just next to one of the city's most lively residential areas with a potential of 113,000 square meters of new construction. Ghent, like many large cities in our country, is facing a huge housing crisis. More than 11,000 people are on the waiting list for a social home. Over 2,000 people, including a lot of children, are homeless or homeless. The city of Ghent even has a plan ready. They are talking about a vision of the future. SNCB itself praises the site as the new Thurn and Taxis district of Ghent. In the Moscou district one dreams of more and affordable living, of greenery and of living and playing space. The question that our party members have made in the neighborhood shows that the residents of the district are eager to shape it. The Arsenal site is therefore crucial for the neighborhood and for the city as a whole. In this context, a sale to the highest bidder, as it is currently under way, is without doubt the worst possible way to ensure affordable living or community consultation. With the PVDA we put our shoulders underneath. My colleague, Tom De Meester, group chairman in Ghent, has already asked questions in Ghent city council three times. He asked if the city could buy the land. He also suggested expropriation. With our basic working group of Gentbrugge we have also done a survey with the residents, with 400 people, and it shows that as many as 98% of the people living in the district want the city to buy the site. Minister, last Saturday the citizens took action. There is also a petition with almost 1,000 signatures from concerned citizens. Next Saturday there will also be a major debate on this dossier. We can no longer ignore this. Let me outline the housing crisis in Ghent. In 2003 you counted an average of 92,000 euros for a house in Ghent. Today you pay 234,000 euros. That's twice as much as it was ten years ago. People with an average income have to work their whole lives to pay off their homes. Single persons are no longer eligible for a property or apartment. Low-income workers leave Ghent in search of a cheaper place to commute to their workplace afterwards. You have the direction to keep the Arsenal site of 13 hectares out of the hands of the capital. Under pressure, everything becomes liquid. Also Mathias De Clercq, the mayor of Ghent, has had to change the gun a bit. The large real estate capital has no interest in an investment in the social interest, so real estate companies only invest in the self-interest. They make profits, deep down the housing crisis, speculate and push land prices up, that's their interest. The importance of capital goes directly against the interests of the Gentians, who want to live affordable in a healthy environment. The mayor of Ghent changed the rifle 'a little', because he is already satisfied with a small part of the site, only 40% of the living area, so a piece of a piece of the whole. The Gentenars, however, are a few rebels, like us, and are not so easily satisfied. That's why we're asking together with them to expropriate that entire Arsenal site. Of course, SNCB will still earn this. As I said last time, the market value of the land was then estimated at EUR 25 to 30 million. This means that SNCB is not so bad off anyway and that there is no loss. By the way, the locals don't understand that very well: the land belongs to the government, and we all are. That is a very important point for people. What if the site came into the hands of the real estate sector? What would happen if, for example, the Ghelamco Group came up with a move? They will speculate and leave the land set aside to increase its value. In the meantime, however, nothing is happening about the major housing crisis. I come to your authority, Minister. You told me last time that there was no alternative, but I said just now that my colleague De Master has examined the situation and there is indeed an alternative. Public authorities may expropriate one another, in accordance with Article 159 of the Law of 21 March 1991 on the reform of certain public economic enterprises. I quote: "On the proposal of the Minister responsible for public undertakings, and after the advice of the Board of Directors of SNCB, which is granted within two months of receipt of the request, the King may, however, authorise the expropriation of a property which would no longer be useful for railway operations. The proceeds of the alienation of each property are due to SNCB. In this case, the public sale proves that the land is no longer useful for railway operation. The situation is therefore clearly covered by Article 159 of the Act cited. The city of Ghent has already indicated that it wants to acquire the land at a fair price. You, Minister, can now make a nomination for the expropriation of land by the city of Ghent. The Board of Directors of SNCB then gives an opinion and the Government then decides whether or not to allow expropriation. Anyone who has to do the presentation was rather unclear. Minister De Sutter seemed to be considered for this, but you now take this on you, as Minister responsible for SNCB and Infrabel. However, I note that the misunderstandings continue, particularly with the mayor of Ghent and my colleague Vandenbroucke. So perhaps you could explain that for a moment, so that letters don't go wrong. In any case, I am curious to hear the vision of my colleagues in Ghent. In Ghent they are part of the majority. It is a pity that in Ghent they did not hit the table earlier and harder, but I am of course happy to be here at your service. Since the PVDA's neighborhood action, we've known the opinion of Open Vld. I didn't hear much from Green, except for a referral to the Minister. Maybe Vooruit here today will distance itself from the opinion of his Ghent ships of Finance, who seemed to find it more important that the bills are right than to invest in a sustainable future for the Gentenaars. Minister, do you support the proposal of expropriation of the Arsenal site by the city of Ghent? This can ensure that the site stays in community hands and can be used to the maximum extent for living and living needs in the district and the city in general. Are you prepared to address a lecture to the King this week to allow an expropriation of the Arsenal site by the city of Ghent? Are you prepared to suspend the planned sale of the Arsenal site temporarily this week or to make arrangements with the Board of Directors of SNCB to deliver an opinion on the proposed expropriation within the month? Are you prepared to launch a procedure for the expropriation of the entire Arsenal site by the city of Ghent this week and will you allow any nomination for expropriation of the Arsenal site, regardless of the advice of the Board of Directors of SNCB?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u102	Minister, this morning you visited our beautiful city, Ghent, where the ships you met will probably have confirmed to you that the Arsenal site is a hot issue. This also makes sense: an area of 13 hectares almost in the middle of the city or still in the urban fabric is a huge lever for urban development. Contrary to what Mrs Vindevoghel insinuated, the city of Ghent has already expressed its interest in purchasing the site years ago. That is precisely why I questioned you about this a few weeks ago. At that time, you told me that SNCB has no option other than to offer that land for sale through public market consultation on competition law and the principle of equality. So that has nothing to do with the intention of the city of Ghent, Mrs Vindevoghel, but everything to do with the legal context that Minister Gilkinet outlined a few weeks ago. Minister, the city would like to see a mixed development of the site of 13 hectares, with not only economic functions such as manufacturing and trade, but also housing. For example, in a vision developed by a study firm, 30% of the site would be eligible for housing and 40% for social housing and budget rentals. This is, of course, very important, especially in view of the huge demand for affordable housing, which Mrs Vindevoghel has correctly outlined. Since the city believes that in order to achieve this important social function, it is best placed to direct, it has now indicated its interest in the direct purchase of that part of the site, 40% of 30%, in order to realize social housing and budget rentals. In the light of this, a letter has been sent to you asking whether that is possible. My first question is, therefore, how do you respond to the city's demand that part of the Arsenal site should still be purchased directly and, above all, whether this is still possible, given that the public sale procedure is already under way and that a bid can be made until 13 August. In addition, through the mayor, the city has indicated that, if that is not possible, the Minister of Public Enterprises De Sutter will be asked to open the expropriation procedure. In this respect, I would like to hear from you what the procedure to be followed is for partial or total expropriation of the Arsenal site and whether it is still possible in theory, given that the sale procedure is already in progress. A third aspect I would like to touch is the temporary management and implementation of the site, which has also been the subject of a call, which has now been closed. Has a concessionary been appointed for the temporary management of the site? Who got the assignment? What concession fee is the opposite? What would be the temporary content of the site? What was the composition of the jury for the choice of a concessionary?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u103	Madam President, Minister, in order not to make the sitting more difficult and since my question is very similar to Mr Vandenbroucke's question, I refer to my question. I hope that will give me a little more time for my reply to the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u104	Mr Vandenbroucke, this morning I was in the very beautiful city of Ghent to look at the interesting mobility projects. Mrs Vindevoghel, Mr Vandenbroucke, Mrs Willaert, as a result of a decision of the Board of Directors of SNCB, the Arsenal site in Ghent has been for sale since the end of March. Offers can be released until August 13. I already had the opportunity to go into this in detail at the Mobility Committee of 26 May 2021. Since the beginning of this dossier, SNCB and the city of Ghent have maintained a regular dialogue, which seemed particularly important to me as Minister of Mobility. This is the way in which such dossiers between public undertakings and a city should be managed. The city of Ghent and SNCB have been in regular contact for several months about the development plans for the future of the Arsenal site, both for a temporary completion of the site until 2025 and for the final completion. The city of Ghent, in cooperation with SNCB, has formulated a clear vision for that site, which I find very positive. The final implementation of this site may involve a mix of living, working and urban functions with an emphasis on sustainable, economic and social development. Yesterday I received a letter from the Ghent College of Mayors and Ships, which was also addressed to the CEO and the chairman of SNCB. That official letter is, of course, a new element in this dossier. In the letter, the College asks what steps can be taken in the sales procedure to respond to three requests. Firstly, they are asking for a continuation of the joint journey that has taken place over the past few months and thus for maximum involvement in the further steps. Secondly, they ask to investigate the possibility of selling part of the site directly to the city of Ghent. This concerns the part of the site that is earmarked in the draft study for social housing and affordable living. They also officially formulate the request to purchase part of the site. Thirdly, they request permission to expropriate part of this area if such sale would not be possible. This is a new element which deserves to be studied, particularly from a legal point of view. What is possible, both as public sales have already begun and taking into account the rules governing the direct sale of goods owned by SNCB? What action should be taken to achieve this? I have asked my services to provide me with all the useful information about this. In any case, this new element undoubtedly deserves to be re-tabled by the parties concerned, the SNCB and the city of Ghent, in order to clarify their respective intentions. This is what I will present to them in response to the letter I received today. Article 159 in question provides as a principle that the immovable property owned by SNCB cannot be the subject of expropriation. However, the article also makes an exception to this principle. The King may allow the expropriation of a property to the extent that the property is no longer useful or would be useful for the railway operation. However, such authorisation by the King requires a prior proposal from the Minister responsible for SNCB, as well as a prior opinion from the Board of Directors of SNCB. The opinion of the Management Board shall not be binding and shall be delivered within two months of the request from the Minister. This provision hopes to exclude the risk that SNCB would be expropriated from real estate which would be useful for railway operation, while it would be difficult to find a suitable replacement property without large expenditure. In the context of an expropriation procedure, the expropriation authority must pay compensation to the owner which corresponds to the value of the property. Indeed, the Arsenaalsite Gentbrugge is no longer useful for railway operations and is therefore subject to the conditions laid down in Article 159. However, other conditions must be met before expropriation can take place. That's right. Such a procedure can only be possible where the acquisition of the good is necessary in the public interest and there is no other possibility of acquisition. The expropriation decision must therefore be justified in the light of purposes of general interest. The Sixth State Reform gave the Regions the power for expropriation. In addition to the procedure and the conditions laid down in the 1991 Act, the public authorities concerned, in this case the local administration of Ghent, must follow the procedure and the conditions laid down in the Flemish expropriation decree. The relocation of a large area such as the Arsenal site is a long-term project that requires in-depth consultation with the various stakeholders. It is a good thing that SNCB and the city of Ghent have been intensively consulting for a long time. I fully understand if the city wants to offer affordable housing for the Gentenars and increase the supply of social housing. In view of the current sales procedure, I will therefore ask SNCB and the city of Ghent to examine together the possible solutions over the next few weeks. Mrs Vindevoghel, I cannot, of course, anticipate a procedure of expropriation that has not yet begun or is not yet certain. In short, I want to ensure that due account is taken of the interests of the various parties. On a consensual basis, the Arsenal site will in the future become a beautiful square for Ghent and the Gentenaars. Pending the final urban development of the site last week, SNCB, in close cooperation with the city, appointed the Ghent company Revive to provide an ambitious temporary implementation of this site. The choice for Revive as a temporary fill-in is motivated by their cocreative approach, the diversity of players and themes they want to host on the site and finally their attention to the surrounding area. Revive goes for co-creation with a series of partners in which the cross-pollination between the various themes will also shape the final implementation. SNCB informed me that at the end of August the city is organizing an info moment for the neighborhood to which the neighborhood will be given an explanation of the plans for the temporary implementation. The real start of the temporary implementation is planned for January next year.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u105	Minister, I am glad that the dossier is moving and that things are moving forward. It is good that you are basing yourself on Article 159. However, I would like to make one more point. We believe that for several reasons it is not a good idea that you only partially expropriate the site. The site must be completely expropriated so that it can be developed in all aspects. The plan Space for Ghent even provides a new train station in Gentbrugge. What private player will ever build a train station like that? Moreover, it is absurd to expropriate only the part of the site for affordable living. We believe that there should be 100 percent of affordable housing in this residential area. This is a public site and not a private domain. It is important to emphasize that again. I would like to refer to a statement by Filip Watteuw, the Ghent ships of Mobility, who stated that he was already with SNCB in November 2020, before only one cock crowded at it. Then it was told that a sale to the city of Ghent could not be made. Now that the cards are apparently different, the conversations are re-enabled. Politics, of course, is not always accepting how the cards have been shaken. If in November 2020 no rooster crowed at the file, it is because no one knew what the conversations were about in the back rooms. I'm rounding up. We are tabling a motion because we want a complete expropriation, so that the public domain as a whole can be viewed together with the neighbors, who dream of a better living environment and good affordable homes. I welcome that participation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u106	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I would like to thank you for your constructive and open approach to the Ghent City Council's request to acquire part of the site. You have not yet been able to answer the question as to whether a direct acquisition through a purchase or expropriation is still possible, given the current sales procedure, which is the subject of a legal investigation. I hope, of course, as a member of the majority of the city council, that will be able to do so passionately, because it is very important that the city is directing that part of the site that needs to be filled out by a living function and more specifically by affordable living. You have rightly pointed out that there is already a clear vision of the site, which was worked out by the city and SNCB, contrary to what some claim. It talks about a mix of functions of living, working and sustainable economy. Given that mix of features, the question arises to what extent it is necessary for the entire site to be owned by the city. I look forward very much to the outcome of the legal investigation based on the question of the city of Ghent.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u107	I would also like to thank the Minister very much for his reply and his constructive attitude in the matter. The city of Ghent has taken the file from the beginning. I think the Minister acted very quickly. He got the letter yesterday. The services have already been asked about the legal possibilities, allowing the city to acquire the important part that has to go to affordable living. The Minister has also proposed to stay around the table for the next few weeks, which we consider to be incredibly important. We look forward to the outcome of the legal investigation and await it before taking any further steps. My group has always been clearly in favour of either acquiring the entire site or part of the site, as Mr Vandenbroucke said correctly. The view on the site is very nice. Part of it is intended for SMEs, part for meeting and part for living, which can bring wonderful urban development. The city has many elements to live up to the city's vision on that site. It is very important that the city itself can control the part that goes to affordable living. I am very glad that, by talking to each other, we can now take that step. I am therefore looking forward to the follow-up. I thank the Minister for the openness he has shown.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u108	Madam President, I would like to take the floor under Rule 132 of the Rules of Procedure, which means that other parties can also replicate in the context of an interplay.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u109	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u110	Minister, I think it is a very interesting debate. Ghent politics is strange to me as such, but several colleagues are active there. As an outsider, I find special punishment for the fact that the city of Ghent wants to acquire land from SNCB, but does not want to pay for it. I find that striking. The city doesn't want to participate in the bidding procedure. SNCB, according to the city, is asking for too much money, and that is why it wants to take other roads, in particular expropriation. I find that striking. I would remind you that the city of Ghent of all Flemish cities and municipalities per capita is best financed by the Flemish Municipal Fund. I also take note of the fact that several parties here, including majority parties, wish to undress a federal public body financially for the benefit of a city's individual interests. I would remind you of the principle of equality, according to which, if the scenario of expropriation goes on, every city and municipality in the country will be in its rightful position when it addresses a similar question to SNCB and, by extension, the government with a view to expropriation of land. I find that very interesting, because it creates prospects for brownfields and for the areas that municipalities need to acquire in the context of cycle motorways and perhaps station parkings. I know a lot of cities that would very much like to acquire the sites of station parking. That's very interesting. As ships, I think this is a very useful discussion and perhaps I will also draw up my local wish list of all the grounds and grounds that the city of Dendermonde can acquire in this way. It is a precedent that has legal value and I am happy to continue with it. However, the great perspective that this gives to cities and municipalities creates, we must recognise, a great uncertainty for SNCB. There is, of course, a risk of great loss of value, loss of SNCB's assets, and a risk of a financial loss, especially given that SNCB today has a negative equity, which is offset by the value of the real estate. The risk of creating so much instability does not seem to me to be the most sensible move. So far, Madam President, I have reservations. I found this a very interesting debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u111	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Maria Vindevoghel and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Maria Vindevoghel and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Mobility, - whereas the public company SNCB owns the almost 13 hectares of the Arsenal site in Ghent; - whereas SNCB intends to sell the Arsenal site in Ghent; - whereas SNCB describes the Arsenal site as the Tour & Taxis of Ghent referring to the great potential of the site; - given the lack of affordable housing in Ghent; - whereas more than 11,000 people are on a waiting list for a social home in Ghent; - considering the interest of the city of Ghent in developing the Arsenal site itself as a social, green and dynamic future project; - whereas the Arsenal site has been estimated at EUR 25 million; - whereas public authorities may expropriate one another; asks the government - to make use of Article 159 of the Law of 21 March 1991 on the reform of certain public economic enterprises; - to initiate the procedure for expropriation of the Arsenal site by the City of Ghent." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Maria Vindevoghel and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Maria Vindevoghel and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Mobility, - Whereas the public undertaking SNCB owns the vast site of nearly 13 ha from the Arsenaal in Ghent; - Whereas SNCB wishes to proceed with the sale of the Arsenaal site in Ghent; - Whereas SNCB describes the Arsenaal as the Tour & Taxis of Ghent in view of the significant potential of the site; - considering the shortage of affordable housing in Ghent; Whereas the waiting list for social housing in Ghent includes more than 11,000 persons; - Whereas the city of Ghent is interested in the development of a social, green and dynamic future project for the Arsenaal site; - Whereas the Arsenaal site is estimated at EUR 25 million; - Whereas the authorities may expropriate between themselves; asks the government - to make use of Article 159 of the Act of 21 March 1991 on the reform of certain public economic undertakings; - to initiate the process of expropriation by the city of Ghent of the Arsenaal site." A simple motion was tabled by Mr Nicolas Parent. A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Nicolas Parent. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u112	Mr Minister, I refer to the question put in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u113	Mr Roggeman, I am convinced that progress in the provision of public transport requires a continuous improvement in coordination between SNCB and the regional transport companies. We must therefore strive to promote the complementarity between train and regional public transport. SNCB is, of course, well aware of the evolution of the regional offer of public transport. SNCB is an advisory member of the 15 Flemish transport regions. It follows up the process of drawing up public transport plans and regional mobility plans. She does this together with the Flemish administration and the various partners in the transport regions. SNCB is happy to participate in all initiatives that contribute to the further development of public transport hubs. SNCB and transport regions are currently working intensively together on two main themes. The mobility experts discuss research trails under the regional mobility plan, as well as the experts on station environments working on the implementation of Hoppin points at the stations. In both cases, it concerns frequent labour-intensive meetings in all Flemish transport regions. This is done together with the team of the Flemish Department of Mobility and Public Works (MOW) and the study consortium that supervises the transport regions concerned. SNCB informs me that the transport regions are not asked for any financial compensation for this work. SNCB also informs me that in the context of the Hoppin points, solutions were sought for the implementation of the customised sub-systems for transport. This is done in cooperation with the department of MOW. Those conversations take place in a constructive atmosphere. SNCB is open to public administrations, regions, provinces, municipalities, back-to-one bikes to be installed in SNCB stations. These bicycles can be regarded as public transport and therefore have no commercial character. Helping them realize the burden mile. Of course, existing contracts with Blue-bike must be respected, but, where possible, these bikes are allowed under the same conditions as Blue-bike.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u114	Madam President, Minister, I am pleased that the Minister says that SNCB is not asking for financial compensation for its participation in this project. This must obviously be based on a misunderstanding, because some transport regions indicated this. This misunderstanding has then been removed and I am pleased that SNCB is continuing to cooperate free of charge.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u115	Madam President, Minister, I want to talk to you about the trains that travel between Brussels and Binche via La Louvière. This is a route that I know well since I take the train to Leval to go to Brussels. Coming from Brussels, the end of the journey, after passing La Louvière-Sud, corresponds to the SNCB line No. 108, created in 1857. For more than a century, this line went as far as Erquelinnes and had about ten stations. Today, there is one stop – that of Leval – and one station condemned as such – on this line at Binche station. This line 108 has undergone multiple prunings over time. It was reduced from two to one track in 2002. Since December 2014, the last two trains of the day no longer serve Leval and Binche. The frequency of trains between La Louvière and Brussels is two trains per hour, changing in Braine-le-Comte for one of the two, but only one train per hour between Binche and Brussels. And today, the closure of the Binche station, in any case its windows, is scheduled for the end of this year. The argument to unblock small lines step by step is always the same: there would be too few passengers. But, as you know, minister, it's a vicious circle. Every time you elevate, you even more discourage the passengers from taking the train on this line. And one day we end up shutting this one down completely. That's what I wouldn't want him to get to line 108. Minister, does not single-track train traffic, in addition to regularly disrupting traffic, lead to an increase in the risk of an accident? Do you not think that the last two trains of the day, coming from Brussels, should be allowed to reach Binche instead of stopping at La Louvière-Sud? Don't you think we should come back to the decision to close the ticket offices at Binche Station?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u116	Mr Van Hees, with regard to line 108 La Louvière-Binche, the movement of single track trains does not lead to an increase in the risk of accidents. In fact, from a technical point of view, the installation of switches, thanks to its recessing mechanisms, prevents two trains from crossing in opposite directions. The stations at Binche and Leval were serviced until 11:56 p.m. before December 2014, but the last two trains of the day had particularly low traffic. On average, SNCB had about 10 passengers per train. This is why the offer was revised downwards with the implementation of the 2014-2017 transport plan. On the other hand, on the weekend, for customers who have leisure activities, SNCB carries out later activities, i.e. arrival at Binche at 10:48 pm (departure from Brussels-Midi at 9:30 pm) and at 11:48 pm (departure at 10:30 pm). Nevertheless, you know, Mr Van Hees, that my ambition for Belgian rail is great, and I want to increase the supply of transport by train, but also to offer a greater amplitude, namely trains earlier in the morning and later in the evening. In the context of a management contract that dates back to 2008 and is, in this regard, rather unambitious, the amplitudes offered today are much wider than what is provided for in the current SNCB management contract. My team works every day with SNCB teams to draft this future public service contract. The issue of hourly amplitudes is a good part of the discussions with SNCB. It is one of the elements of the attractiveness of rail and one of the means of making it the backbone of mobility in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u117	Minister, thank you for your answers. As far as the risk of accidents is concerned, I trust your technical explanations. I know that an accident occurred in Italy because of a single lane. I hope that this will not happen in Belgium. With regard to the last two trains of the day and the question of the ticket offices at Binche station to which you did not reply, I hope that, in the management contract that you negotiate, you will increase the offer. I take note of your ambition, which I hope will apply to line 108 which concerns us and that the last two trains of the day will go well into the future to Binche and will no longer stop at La Louvière-Sud. The explanation that you have given about the removal of these trains, namely the too low number of people, unfortunately goes in the direction of the logic that makes the small lines close one after the other, gradually. I hope you don't sign up for this, minister. So I'm waiting for a gesture on your part in the next contract for this line to be restored.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u118	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Buyst's 55019117C is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u119	Mr. Parent, today, one in five commuters leave their bike in the bicycle parking lot at a train station. Other passengers take their foldable bike free of charge and easily find a place to store it on the train. SNCB invests in increasing the number of bicycle car parks in its stations. The number of places available will increase over the next few years to at least 150,000 locations per 108,000 today. I asked SNCB to work on the train + bike strategy that was recently presented publicly. I am optimistic that SNCB is now working on such an ambitious and coherent strategy. This is a first step and I will encourage SNCB to further develop this strategy in the future on the basis of the evaluation that we can make of this first step. A bicycle rate proportionate to distance is not envisaged for this year. However, the train + bike strategy provides for an evaluation of the "cycling supplement" product with regard to both customer returns and its overall articulation. This is an aspect to be determined in the context of SNCB's future public service contract. I hope that progress can be made in this regard. With regard to secure parking in the railway station, SNCB intends to increase significantly the number of bicycle places equipped with access control in collaboration with local authorities and depending on the work carried out at the railway stations and their potential. I agree with you that information on this matter could be improved. The accessibility of wharfs for passengers with bicycles is taken into account in the cycling strategy and is integrated into the independent accessibility strategy for all passengers: lifts large enough, ramps, train platforms, etc. This is the case for all new railway station projects and renovation projects. In the medium term, it is planned to equip the existing stairs with bicycle chutes where they are not yet present. For me, the train + bike is an ideal combination and I hope I can continue to strengthen and facilitate it through different measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u120	Minister, thank you for your different answers. Indeed, the cycling strategy, as you pointed out, is a first step. We will encourage every step that will be taken by SNCB to strengthen the attractiveness of cycling and multimodality. We welcomed the first steps. We encourage SNCB to continue its efforts. I think that the issue of pricing has already been addressed in this committee and we have seen that flat rate pricing can be embarrassing and that it can also be dissuasive. Developments are expected by cyclists. With this in mind, given that SNCB will strengthen the supply and already strengthen it for cyclists, this consideration of pricing can accompany this evolution of the supply on trains. As far as the gullies and the accessibility of the docks are concerned, I hear your comments and welcome the efforts made. But I also welcome the clarifications on the gullets. As in other debates on the accessibility of docks, we also inherit the past. We won't be able to make all the docks 100% accessible by 2024-2025. I know that pilot projects are under way, particularly in Brussels-Chapelle. They are closely followed by cyclist associations. I hope this can develop. Secure parking is a theme that we will have the opportunity to discuss again in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u121	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l 55019159C, 55019204C, 55019334C, 55019617C and 55019674C of Mr Van den Bergh are converted into written questions. Debates of the European Parliament 55019158C by Mr Van den Bergh will be answered by the Secretary of State Mrs De Bleeker, because it is covered by consumer protection. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van den Bergh's 55019674C expires.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u122	Minister, I refer to my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u123	Minister, I would also like to refer to my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u124	Mr Van den Bergh, Mr Troasts, SNCB informs me that the rate of occupancy of trains during the week was 57% compared to non-corona times from 21 to 26 June. Since mid-May of this year, SNCB has seen a positive trend in its sales. The sharp fall in sales by more than half last year was therefore slightly flattened to a decrease in sales between 35% and 40%. The relaxation of measures and the warm weather are likely to have had a positive effect. The financial impact of the corona crisis on SNCB's accounts this year is minus 478 million euros EBITDA, less than the EBITDA of 85 million euros, realised in 2019. For the calculation of the compensation by the State this year, the same formula was applied as last time. On this basis, and to date, the State's compensation for this year is estimated at 315 million euros for 2021, of which 124 million euros have been paid to date. In 2020, this compensation amounted to 288 million euros. It makes sense to specify that the compensation provided by the State covers losses linked to the public service contracts of SNCB. The corona losses resulting from the commercial activities of SNCB are not compensated. It's heading in the right direction as the health situation improves. However, it would be presumptuous to set a precise timetable before the end of the crisis and return to a normal situation. After all, we know that the situation is still delicate, even though all the indicators indicate that we are moving in the right direction. The current transport plan was validated in April last year by the then federal government, in June last year by the Board of Directors of SNCB and again by the Board of Directors in June this year. That is a decision that I expressly support. For example, we stress that SNCB remains an important link in the area of mobility. I would also like to stress that, during the health crisis, SNCB has performed its full role as the backbone of mobility. The current transport plan is being implemented at different stages. As you know, the first phase will be completed by December 2020. In order to maintain the original implementation schedule, SNCB's Board of Directors requested funding for the next phase of the enlargements, which is scheduled for next year and the following year. I have committed myself to taking the necessary steps to enable SNCB to cover the additional operating costs resulting from the announced extension of the transport plan offer. Let us not forget that SNCB has already succeeded in reducing the total cost of the transport plan on an annual basis thanks to internal productivity and optimisation measures taken by its management. In any case, therefore, I would not want to disappoint those who are eagerly looking forward to increasing the number of trains available, particularly at a time when we want to restore confidence in the train.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u125	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic543x.u126	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
