ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic648x.u1	Mr President, Secretary of State, it has disappeared from the media, but the tragedy that is taking place in front of the Little Castle continues. The situation has been dragging on for almost two months now. Every day, people spend the night in the street not to lose their place in line. Every day, people are denied shelter. This morning another 90 people were refused and that while it's freezing. Those people are entitled to shelter. Often more than 90 people are involved. Sometimes more than 100 or 200 people are abandoned by your policy at the gates of the login center. Then there are the people who have entered and who have been registered, but who are not yet receiving shelter because there is no room and they will have a date far in the future for a first interview. Mr Secretary of State, when will this appalling situation be brought to an end? At the Ministry of Defence, 5,800 temporary shelters would be created. How many are there today? When will the remaining places be activated? Which centres are we talking about in concrete terms? You will see whole centres as buffer sites as a structural solution for reception. However, with each activation there will be a very high pressure on the permanent and the new, temporary workers. This also reduces the quality of care. Doesn't this mean that your solution is also a crisis model? Will you meet the demands of Fedasil's employees for better working conditions and decent care? How will you achieve better working conditions with a shrinking wage budget? Finally, in response to the government's late response, the Mayor of Brussels decided to create shelters himself in cooperation with Fedasil. It's about a hundred places. In addition, he has also temporarily used hotel rooms to protect asylum seekers from the winter cold. Will the cost of this be for the government? After all, it is the federal government that is responsible for the reception of asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic648x.u2	Mr President, first of all, I would like to point out that I do not have the translation. Maybe it's due to a technical problem. It's not a big deal because I understand Dutch very well, but I still see, if I'm not mistaken, that the translation is not present at the moment. Secretary of State, I come back to two questions I asked at the time. My first question concerns the situation of unaccompanied minors (MENA). As you know, I am particularly concerned about their situation. That is why I have asked the Committee on the Interior to carry out hearings on 11 January and 25 January to review the situation of the MENA. I would like to return to the situation that occurred on 8 December 2021, when some 15 MENA were not welcomed by Fedasil. In the meantime, your colleague, the Minister of Justice, informed me that everything had returned to order and that they could have been welcomed. Anyway, that's a question. This is the first time since the 2015 crisis that MENA found themselves or might end up on the street. The saturation of the reception network is not a surprise. We've seen this for several months already. Fedasil has been in default of reception rights for several weeks. As part of the presentation of your policy note, you referred to February as the deadline for the priority issue of hosting MENA to be dealt with in ICD. As I have already told you, it is obviously far too late. It's important to treat her in ICD, but this is happening now. The winter is there and young people are right now on the street. Secretary of State, what is your plan of action to ensure that Fedasil is able to meet its obligation to receive the MENA? It's an absolute obligation. When will you organise an emergency consultation and take concrete action to allow the reception of minors left on the street? They are vulnerable people whose interests must be taken into account now. We have to act! Regarding the general situation of the network, Médecins du monde, the Refugee Support Citizen Platform and Fedasil staff demonstrated in front of your firm. It is a symbolic action but a strong and important symbol because the staff of Fedasil have been doing everything for months with incredible energy to welcome applicants for international protection. They have reached the end of their efforts, at the end of their means. Today, they are asking for additional resources. The City of Brussels has had to rent hotel rooms to provide humanitarian management to those left behind who can no longer apply for international protection at the arrival centre. ICRÉ estimates that 30 to 200 people are currently left on the street every day. Some families with children and MENA would not be welcomed. Mr Secretary of State, do you confirm the lack of reception for most applicants for international protection? How many are left without a reception solution every day? How many vulnerable persons and minors are not accommodated on a daily basis? There is also a humanitarian emergency not to leave anyone on the street during the winter. It was freezing this morning and it will freeze in the next few days. The conditions will be dantesque. What emergency device are you planning? What is also planned for families with children, the sick and the disabled? I hope you will provide me with answers that will demonstrate a quick and immediate response even though, Mr. Secretary of State, I am aware that what you have to deal with today is not easy and that you are putting a lot of commitment into it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic648x.u3	Mr Secretary of State, my question is slightly different from that of the previous speaker. New asylum centres are being opened throughout our country, which is inextricably linked to the government's non-policy on migration. Despite repeated warnings from my party, this country has fallen asleep in a new asylum crisis. After the coronadip, this country is once again the top destination for all kinds of illegal and legal migration from all over the world. The figures speak a clear language. If we carry on like this, we will exceed 2019 and even as in 2015, with the biggest asylum crisis ever, we will face a dike breach. In the municipality of Boom, too, this is what is unclearly planned a new asylum centre in the former tax office. Mr Secretary of State, how did the communication between you and the local government go? Is it normal for the information to be sent to the people via a party pamphlet of the mayor or a short quote from yourself in a political talk programme? Is the installation of a large asylum centre desirable in a municipality which already has a lot of problems linked to a strong alienation to fight? Why is this planned without any consultation with the Boom people? How much was budgeted for converting the outdated tax office into a liveable asylum centre?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic648x.u4	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, as mentioned in my last speech, the former military site in Glons is currently hosting an open reception centre with a capacity of about 250 migrants in a first phase and an additional number of people in a later phase. While the municipality of Bassenge had not been coordinated before and had no information, communication between the staff of Fedasil and those of the municipality was now done weekly. After many meetings, the municipality of Bassenge suggested that it should also occupy the part of the site not used by Fedasil by offices leased to SMEs, or for example local producers. This new initiative would allow for a greater integration of the reception centre and the revitalization of the facilities in the long term. Mr Secretary of State, is it possible to implement this new plan proposed by the municipality of Bassenge? Who is responsible for making the final decision on this project? When will the capacity of the 200 seats planned for the first phase be reached? When will the second phase be launched? How many people will be admitted to the centre?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic648x.u5	Mr President, Secretary of State, it has now been more than two months since hundreds of people sleep every night on the street – last night, temperatures were close to zero degrees – because they were unable to apply for asylum at the Petit-Château, where the staff are just as saturated as the space available. You know that because you met the staff, who are exhausted. About ten days ago, we read in the press that about fifteen minors were facing a closed door and had to stay on the street. A few days ago, a man was sick in the line and had to be evacuated. I sincerely salute the work you are doing because I know that you are in the oven and in the mill trying to find a solution, but the result and the reality are there: there are still people sleeping outside on Christmas Eve. Mr Secretary of State, have you contacted any municipalities with a view to opening emergency places? If so, which municipalities responded? Have you taken proactive steps to increase the number of local hospitality initiatives (LBIs)? One of the solutions is known to be through ILAs, so that existing Fedasil centres can be emptied for the most vulnerable audiences. What are the results? It seems that the Walloon Region still has a budget to set up ALIs? Have you contacted the federated entities on this issue and on the issue of minors at risk? What is being considered? Are accommodation solutions in hotels or, more importantly, in barracks considered? I do not hear the Socialist Minister of Defence speak on this point. This has already been applied in the past. I wish that was still the case today. I therefore appeal to my colleagues. Will you reconsider these options, even for a few days while waiting for other places to be opened? I now turn to my second question, which deals more specifically with unaccompanied foreign minors (MENA). I know that this question is mobilising your firm and your work in general. However, last week, MENA had to be taken over by the Citizen Platform of Support for Refugees, one of these large left-wing organizations that is criticized all the time but that, in reality, allows children not to sleep on the street. It was a first in Belgium. There is evidence that a large part of these MENA are Afghan nationals. Why? Because the decisions of the Office of the Commissioner General for Refugees and Stateless Persons (CCRA) are suspended for the time being. The 2,600 places reserved for MENA are very often occupied by young Afghans who cannot be redirected to other structures due to lack of response. Mr Secretary of State, what solutions are envisaged to ensure that all MENA are welcomed this week and the following? What do you think is the responsibility of the federated entities in the MENA file? We know that there is a blur in our Belgian lasagna on this issue. What is the distribution in reception between federated entities and the federal government? I know that a first Interministerial Migration Conference on MENA was held. What are the results? What avenues have been considered? Among the buffer places you have announced, what percentage of these places are planned for the reception of MENA? Since these are encrypted questions, I can send them to you in writing. Is buffer personnel so imaginable? Indeed, as we can see in the current crisis, what is sometimes missing is staff rather than places.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic648x.u6	Mr Secretary of State, last Friday 17 December 2021, you tweeted about the day that everyone was registered and received and that no one remained on the streets. Of course, I was very excited about this, but I also assumed that this meant that the situation had finally improved and that this would be the case over the next few days and weeks. Meanwhile, we know that yesterday, 60 people were neither registered nor received shelter. Today we are talking about 65 people. Perhaps you didn't count on it, otherwise you wouldn't have communicated that way on Friday. What's gone wrong in the last few days? After all, we know that hundreds of places have been created in the last few weeks. Are those places full already? Was there a problem today with the operation of the Klein Kastiltskin in the field of registration? Is there anything else going on? I honestly don't know. I would also like to have a look at the whole, in the short and medium term. I have put a number of questions to that effect. What are your expectations? What do your models say now? Will the planned reception be sufficient in the coming weeks and months? I think this should be about invaluable with a few figures. I also know that you cannot look into the future, but with a minimum and maximum scenario, I think there are possibilities. Of course, it is our starting point that everyone needs shelter, especially in view of the winter conditions. That is why we do not want taboos in emergency care, at least not for the transitional period until structural reception is opened. For this, it is necessary to find out a number of things. I would like to hear from you exactly which centres are currently planned. How many places do they offer individually? When exactly will they be opened? I have also understood that there are quite a lot of places within existing centres that cannot be opened at present due to staff shortages. Which centers are we talking about? How many places can be used in the already opened centres in the next few weeks? I always find that very difficult. We go looking for ten places here and ten places elsewhere, but meanwhile there are hundreds of places in the already opened centers that we cannot use. Then I wonder which centres are currently facing the greatest problems in filling out the vacancies. I understand that this is particularly the case in West Flanders. What are the vacancies in particular? What exactly can we do to bring all this to the fore? I understand that there is now a special recruitment campaign, including through social media. How does it go exactly and since when does she walk? How are the most urgent vacancies to be filled brought to the attention? I also note, for example, that the vacancies of the partners online do not seem to be centrally available. Is it possible to take care of that? What are the expectations in terms of the number of decisions taken in the next few weeks at the Department of Foreign Affairs and the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless in view of the corona conditions? Are there significantly fewer decisions expected? What impact will that have on the reception network? I suspect that this could have consequences in terms of the negative decisions. Much depends on the so-called delta, so the difference between the inflow and the outflow in the network. How has that evolved in the past few weeks? How will that evolve in the next few weeks, assuming an influx as we know it today? Taking into account the planning centres and the output expectations at the DVZ and CGVS over the next few weeks and starting from an inflow as we know it today, will the reception capacity be sufficient in the next few weeks? What precise margin is there according to a minimum and a maximum scenario? Within a few months the CGVS may be able to work at full power. Is it possible to make an assessment of this? How many decisions can be made per week or per month? From when? What will happen in the next few weeks if capacity is not sufficient, as was the case today and yesterday? Is this also being prepared to provide emergency care at least during that transitional period? When the reception is full and the winter reception for the applicants of international protection is expected, how will this lead and follow-up take place? How is it ensured that one also effectively ends up in winter care? Can you provide more information on the working stock at the DVZ? What are the profiles? What are the priorities? How does it evolve and what impact does it have on care? As I have already presented to you in the discussion of the policy paper, I always notice that there has been a significant increase in secondary migration. However, I cannot find that directly in the figures. According to the DVZ statistics, for example, 242 Dublin decisions were taken in October. That's about 11.5 %. That percentage seems to be about stable. Why isn't that percentage rising? Is it not necessary, for example, to strengthen the Dublin cell at the DVZ? Is that happening yet? What are the plans? Finally, I have read what is happening in the Netherlands. There it is predicted that 6,000 more reception places will be needed by 2022. It takes account, among other things, of an increase in influx compared with recent years, but also of the problems in the housing market. I wonder if we also have longer-term forecasts. Based on what models are these made? Is there also cooperation at European level? Are specific predictions also made regarding secondary flows? How flexible are these predictions? What period will they be adjusted? Are there procedures for signaling emergency signals? What are the concrete predictions for 2022? Will more shelters be needed? Are there different scenarios and contingency plans available in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic648x.u7	Mr Secretary of State, there is actually no reception crisis in this country, but a mass migration crisis. I am not going to repeat the broad arguments for this, for which I refer to my extensive comments on the policy paper. Soon we will undoubtedly discuss this again. I would, however, like to draw attention to two important points. The first point is the hotel reception of asylum seekers and the huge suction effect that will be assumed of them. Following the umpteenth undeniable asylum crisis that this country is facing, the slopes of reception of asylum seekers appear again in hotels. Among other things, your green coalition partner has spoken out a number of times in the past. So far, you have spoken out against this and rightly so, because it would indeed lead to a suction effect, which would only increase the problem. Meanwhile, although the city of Brussels is not really competent in this matter, it was known to rent 100 places in hotels for the temporary or non-temporary reception of asylum seekers. This is done with framework by NGOs Doctors Without Borders and the Brussels platform BXL Refugees, which, contrary to what the name suggests, is primarily concerned with facilitating illegality and not facilitating refugees. Mr Secretary of State, were you informed of the initiative by Brussels in advance? Have you been consulted? Is any financial or other contribution provided by the federal government for this Brussels initiative? Do you have any idea of any plans by Brussels to extend this initiative further? While you speak out against asylum reception in hotels, Brussels is working along a detour and is therefore going against your policy. How do you assess this Brussels initiative? Is Brussels out of line with this? Do you not fear that this initiative will have an effect which you and we fear will have? Have you already expressed your disapproval in this regard? Are you prepared to call on Brussels to put an immediate end to this initiative? A second point on which I would like to draw attention briefly is the short-term procedures that asylum seekers apply. It is reported that many dozens of asylum seekers have been sued against Fedasil because they are currently unable to go to the shelter. From five of them we could hear what the outcome was. It appears that two applications were dismissed as unfounded, two applications justified and one inadmissible. In the well-founded procedures that you lost, they were always asylum seekers who were able to apply for asylum, but could not enjoy the right of reception, because the reception structures, as is well known in the meantime, are saturated. In both cases, Fedasil was convicted under a penalty payment of EUR 100 per day that the applicant could not be heard. How many procedures have been initiated this year? In how many short-term proceedings brought against you during this period, have you already been sentenced under a penalty payment? How many of these procedures have a penalty payment been paid in the end? What amount was it all about?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic648x.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the situation in the Fedasil reception network has remained extremely precarious over the last few weeks. The reception network is saturated, so it was not possible for several weeks to actually accommodate all those who arrived. Of course, that should not have happened. In the meantime, the causes are well known. There has been insufficient investment in a resilient collection network in recent years. The system was designed to allow Fedasil and its partners to create additional places in urgent need of additional capacity. The number of buffer places available was limited, too limited. That risk soon became clear to me. In July, therefore, the Council of Ministers agreed to my proposal to create 5,400 buffer seats. This is an important step in making the reception network more structurally resilient and no longer having to ask for the impossible from the services and from all employees in the event of fluctuations in the necessary capacity. Mrs Daems, buffer sites can be created both within existing reception structures and on unused sites. In any case, it will ensure more stability, as there will now be clear plans to cope with rising occupation. As I have already replied to the question of where the buffer places are and where exactly they are going to be, places are being created. When the inflow decreases, these places are placed in non-active mode and are transformed into buffer shelter instead of shutting them up year after year. For example, there are 5,400 places as an insurance principle. Unfortunately, there was no time to implement that decision before the crisis came. The flood in Wallonia, the loss of places because buildings became unusable or because we had to cope with citizens who had lost their homes because of the flood, and the increased influx of the last three months, for which we had to take action, are reasons for this. Corona is another cause. The more than 1,000 quarantine sites across the entire network have an impact on the site. Thanks to the activation of existing buffer sites and the efforts of the staff at the reception centre, the additional need for places could still be met initially. At the end of October, that proved impossible. Since then, we have been unable to accommodate all single men who present themselves. Fedasil cannot determine the total number of proceedings brought before the court, because they are often proceedings on a unilateral application, in which Fedasil is not a party and is therefore not informed if a claim is rejected by the court. We do know of 168 cases in which Fedasil was sentenced to provide care under penalty of a penalty payment, with three interim decisions and 165 on one-sided petition. As the parties were subsequently received by Fedasil, no periodic penalty payments were paid. Staff have been working in very difficult circumstances for months. The corona crisis creates additional workload and the increased influx requires a lot of staff flexibility. Together with those people who could not be taken care of, they are also the victims of the situation. Over the last seven years they have had three reception crises to deal with. So the crisis is too much for them too. The questions they have are justified. They ask for better working conditions, including more security and therefore contracts of indefinite duration for structural functions. I therefore fully support this question. Together with Fedasil I am working on a framework that should improve the working conditions of the employees. I said that in committee two weeks ago, but I am delighted to repeat this in response to Mrs Daems' question. The employees of Fedasil deserve a fair remuneration under appropriate conditions. Working with fixed-term contracts should be limited to functions that are effective of a fixed-term nature. In view of the fact that the network is characterised by some flexibility, this is indeed the case, but for some functions it is far less so. I have already taken the first steps to provide structural stability to the reception network, with 5,400 buffer points. The employees of Fedasil, his partners and you are asking for short-term solutions, and that is right. In recent weeks and months, I have worked hard with my services on immediate solutions. As a result, first of all, additional reception capacity has been created, both through additional increases in existing reception centres and through new reception centres. Since 1 November, centres have been opened or the number of places has been increased in among others Lombardsijde, Geel, Lommel, Glons and Marcinelle. In short, there are a lot of places open. Mrs Jadin, I think we'll come back to Glons later, but I can tell you that at the moment the capacity is limited to 70 seats. You were talking about 250 seats, if I'm not mistaken. It continues to be discussed because the question was raised by several members, including Mr.Moutquin, about the Defence's ability, which I welcome. I see that in Glons we are 70 places and in the Netherlands we are 1,000 places freed. Preparations are under way to open a reception centre in Evere this year and additional places will also be opened in 2022. This will happen in Boom, where the Red Cross prepares the start of a shelter. There, as in other municipalities, I first contacted the local government myself, which is a matter of basic courtesy. The residents are informed by the operator, in the case of Boom the Red Cross. The start-up of the shelter in Boom, as in any other place, is accompanied by concerns from both local government and local residents. We are therefore going to work through consultation and hope that this will take place in the best possible conditions. In Bassenge, for example, there is a weekly consultation between Fedasil and the mayor, as Mrs Jadin said. I would not pretend that there are no more problems, but I think that important steps are being taken to address various concerns. The proposal raised by Mrs Jadin concerning the joint use of the Glons site seems interesting to me. The feasibility of this proposal could be further explored at the weekly meeting between Fedasil and the mayor. Deficiencies in the labour market create additional problems in the start-up of reception centres. Temporary reinforcements from, inter alia, nearby reception centres are often not sufficient to quickly use full capacity. In addition, the reception centres in the recruitment campaign were used. We were also able to count on additional support from Selor for the publication of our vacancies. These actions are paying off. We are therefore seeing an increase in the number of candidates. I would also like to thank all Members of Parliament, and in particular Mr Segers, for pushing in the right direction with regard to recruitment to encourage people to use the vacancies and help solve the problem. The reality is that there is a tight labour market, making it more difficult to find people in certain regions than in others. Support was provided from Defence for the opening of Glons with 70 places and further support is provided for working to further increase capacity in this centre to, initially, 250. In addition, for a number of years there have been 5,000 existing shelters on military sites of Defense, which were or were not used by Defense. Above all, it is important that we can move forward. Personally, I hope that in Glons and taking into account the difficult situation, we can still move forward. When we try to find emergency solutions for a fairly large number of asylum seekers, that the employees of Fedasil work day and night to find solutions, I admit that, for them as for others, it is frustrating to work as much to lead to the opening of a centre limited to 70 places. Mr Van Langenhove, on the initiative of the city of Brussels, a hundred people who could not be accommodated at Fedasil are also effectively welcomed at the hotel today, in cooperation with humanitarian organisations. I wasn't involved in that initiative. I'm not in favour of hotel care for two reasons. Firstly, I believe that hotels are not quality places where proper guidance can be provided. Secondly, I also believe that such an initiative will have an effect on asylum seekers in neighbouring countries. There, asylum applications also have problems in terms of reception capacity, and asylum seekers are being accommodated in large tent camps. I understand that the city of Brussels wants a solution to difficult situations on its territory. We are therefore working with the city of Brussels on other emergency shelters. I would also like to thank the city of Brussels for the other emergency shelters, which are being worked very hard on in Brussels. I spoke earlier about De Brug in Molenbeek and about the shelter in Evere. We are working very hard in Brussels on structural solutions where there is real guidance. We need a lot of time and energy here in particular. Several calls for additional LOI sites have been made in recent years, albeit with limited results. Most of you also know the causes of that limited result, namely a lack of trust among local governments that make efforts to realize LOIs and then find that the federal government suddenly decides to do it differently. We all know that LOIs are cheaper and provide better guidance. They also ensure a better spread. I can go on for a while. So I make a sincere appeal and I hope that you will give that message to your local governments and your fellow party members. If you believe in a reception policy in which there are LOI places, please make sure that the trust of local authorities is restored. I'm counting on all of you to make that possible. Mr Segers, in view of the capacity increase I have just mentioned, last Friday we managed to accommodate all those present. At the beginning of the week more and more people appeared, so yesterday and today it was not possible to accommodate all single men. Later this week, hopefully, we will again manage to accommodate all persons, depending of course always on the influx that remains unpredictable. When I say something, it is effective in the hope that the situation will be better in the coming days, also based on certain forecasts that we have at our disposal. However, if the figures turn out to be higher than we thought, we are facing a difficult challenge. The necessary prospects can be found in order to provide structural support for all single men in the coming period. In any event, the situation will remain very precarious over the coming period. It is therefore important now to continue until we have been able to reduce the necessary stability. I am very happy to convey that message here, because I find that, when we work on shelters for certain people in the secrecy of this meeting, from the moment that there is shelter for everyone, the feeling arises that we will actually be out of it. These people then wonder whether it is still necessary to make new efforts. That is why I think it is important to stress once again that it is really necessary. A major concern will continue to be with unaccompanied minors. I would like to be clear: a minor is not allowed to sleep on the street under any circumstances. For some time now, however, Fedasil has also been faced with a serious overcrowding of the reception facilities. In order to ensure adapted reception for each unaccompanied minor, around 1,000 new places have been created for this target group since 2020. These are 249 new places in the first reception phase and 750 new places in the second reception phase. Nevertheless, over the past few weeks, Fedasil has not always been able to absorb the high influx with appropriate places. On days when the influx exceeds the available capacity, some young people outside the reception network were received by humanitarian organisations. In order to ensure in the short term that there are sufficient places to avoid children leaving the streets, work is being done on different fronts. Other 25 emergency shelters for children are opened by Samusocial in Molenbeek. In the second phase I mention a shelter in Dilbeek, with 51 places. I would also mention the opening of shelters in the second phase in temporary reception centres in Lommel and Koksijde, the reopening of shelters for unaccompanied minors in the Nonceveux flooded reception centre, the creation of reception facilities by Croix-Rouge partners in the existing reception centres and the accelerated flow of unaccompanied minors who have reached adulthood before or during the crocus holiday. With this I indicate that every day work is being done to avoid children having to stay on the streets. No child stays on the streets, but we will have to make a great deal of effort in terms of care, but also in terms of other matters. Soon there will be an individual question about unaccompanied minors, so I will come back to this later. In addition, Flemish Minister Wouter Beke, through the Agency Growing up, is looking at how he can provide additional shelters for the youngest and most vulnerable unaccompanied minors. Minister Glatigny of the Fédération Wallonie-Bruxelles is also considering the possibilities of releasing additional reception places for the specific target group of highly vulnerable unaccompanied minors of a particular age or category who need a specific framework. Fedasil has an agreement with Aide à la jeunesse and Agentschap Opgroeien to accommodate between 130 and 150 minors. These places are co-financed. However, they are not all operational: 138 places are operational in Flanders and 98 places are operational in Wallonia. We are making every effort to make them all operational as soon as possible. The federated entities are competent for Youth Assistance in general and especially when the places of Fedasil are not sufficient to meet the specific needs of MENA. Of course, the federated entities are also competent when placement is carried out by the youth judge. The ICD working group has already met and is working on common objectives and actions. As this is being realized, I can't tell you anything yet about its content. However, it is clear that everyone around the table understands the importance of providing the best possible framework and protection. The buffer system must be refined to take account also of the increasing influx of the specific group of minors for which a specific proportion of the total number of buffer places should be determined and an appropriate framework provided. We also see great pressure on the reception network in our neighbouring countries. Mr Segers referred to the Netherlands. Although the reception systems are not fully comparable, the exact rate of occupancy is, according to the information provided by my services in the Netherlands, 92 percent, 72 percent in France and 83 percent in Luxembourg. I share Mr Segers' view that it is important to align our policies in the future with the figures. In addition to the creation of additional reception places, which is of course the first priority, especially in the Christmas period, the services are also working on more efficient control of the inflow, for example by setting up a waiting list and by examining whether some processes can be removed from the registration centre. Efforts are also being made to ensure more efficient follow-up of persons for whom Belgium is not responsible under the Dublin Regulations. We cannot accept that a person who does not cooperate in a transfer to the competent Member State for six months should have the place of reception of a person who wishes to apply for asylum for the first time. It is difficult to make precise predictions about the influx. There is the general influx in the European Union, there is the distribution in the flow to different Member States and there are the secondary flows. Forecasts of inflow are considered at national level, but are based on projections at European level and practices in other countries. The fact that this is so difficult and creates structural uncertainty proves once again the importance of a European policy and a European migration pact for screening at the external border. The necessary rapid handling of requests should lead to a higher outflow and thus also a decrease in the number of persons to be taken care of. The government therefore decided in April to strengthen the asylum authorities. The additional staff will be employed in the coming weeks and months and should allow for increased outflow. I have just heard from Mr Van den Bulck that in January, for example, 14 additional protection officers will be added and that people will be added again in February. The deployment of additional staff, which is in full training, should speed up procedures. During the Christmas period there are fewer working days, which will have an effective impact on the number of decisions taken by the asylum authorities. There is not a direct impact on the outflow, as negative decisions require appeals periods to be observed. In the case of positive decisions, of course, there is also a transition period. Finally, since the situation on the rental market here is fortunately not as precarious as in the Netherlands and the outflow is organised in a different way, it does not have the same impact on the outflow here. At the beginning of 2022, the simulations for the necessary collection capacity will be adapted. In any case, we will need several months to complete the major task of bringing stability to the network. Long-term solutions are certainly foreseen. We work on that every day. But there is also a lot of work in the short term.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic648x.u9	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. The creation of 5,400 buffer places is a proof of structural solutions. You then refer to the opening of places in Lombardsijde, Geel, Lommel, Glons and Marcinelle. I would like to make a comment on that. I live in Geel and I know Sundew very well. There is now a temporary center opened, but actually that is a youth center. From the start of the Krokus holiday there will be youth camps and the asylum seekers will have to leave there. So you can't sell that as a sustainable solution. Structural solutions, we just need them. The opening of places in these centres is, of course, necessary in order to get asylum seekers off the streets, which is only normal. However, you make it seem as if you are responding appropriately to the crisis, but you seem to forget that it is because of your lateness and delays that dozens of asylum seekers are still not being treated. Fedasil warned you months ago, even before the reception crisis, that there was a growing need for shelters. So you could have intervened earlier and largely prevented the drama.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic648x.u10	Mr Secretary of State, thank you very much. I had tabled three questions, all of which had to do with the reception crisis. We have often discussed it here: in the past, insufficient investment has been made in a structural and resilient collection network. That is what Fedasil's staff and asylum seekers, who cannot be taken care of, are now the victims of. You refer to other reasons, such as the floods, covid and the increased influx. In this context, we are now in a position to continue to refer to it, but it is now up to us to come up with solutions and to act. That is your responsibility and that of the entire government. You're referring to the shelters that were already created. It is very good that capacity is added in the regular network, which everyone prefers. That is best, because we can provide the best guidance there, we fully agree. It is also very important, of course, that we provide emergency care so that asylum seekers do not have to sleep on the streets. I am sure that you agree that people should not remain on the streets during this period of the year. In any case, I find your answer somewhat ambiguous. You refer to the Brussels Government and humanitarian organisations that are now taking responsibility. It is of course very good that they do so, but eventually they fill gaps. Instead of encouraging this, you say that you are not entirely in favour of the emergency care that they provide, because it is not high quality. I think that is an ambiguous answer. For our group, it is certainly a step too far if asylum seekers are to remain on the streets. As some Members have said, we must look without taboos where we can provide additional emergency care, especially for minors. In this context, I have questions about age screening. I also had questions about the situation in the neighbouring countries of France, the Netherlands and Germany because it is interesting to compare them. You reply that the situation in the Netherlands is not fully comparable, but that country is also faced with a larger influx and a saturated reception network. I note that the Centraal Body is looking for asylum seekers in the Netherlands in every possible way for additional places and that it has already received 350 refugees in a hotel. There is also a look at halls, tents and mobile homes. There is no taboos to see how asylum seekers can be dealt with in emergency care. If we compare it with the Netherlands, then we must also refer to it, because that is where it happens. So what is the plan B, if you do not manage to temporarily activate the additional places you are creating? I wish I didn't have to use the reference to the Christmas story, where there was no place in the inn either. It may sound a bit flat, but that is the reality we stand for. You yourself speak of an impact on neighbouring countries, but we must bear in mind that our neighbouring countries are also facing greater influx. I would therefore like to call for emergency care to be provided without taboos and for responsibility to be avoided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic648x.u11	Mr Secretary of State, first of all, thank you for your clear answers. I know the context is difficult and I wouldn't want to be in your place. This is obviously a problematic situation that everyone is facing, you and your bodies. Today, there is an urgent need to adopt a minimum winter plan. The situation is dramatic, with people who are actually on the street, mainly in Brussels, and these people do not have to be victims of a saturation of the network to be repressed. They have a right to welcome and must be given it to them. We have to give it to them all the more because today, leaving them on the street is putting them in danger. I therefore hope that we can consider measures to have this notion that I knew at the time: during the last crisis, when I was at Fedasil, and that Fedasil obtained the prize of the public company of the year, we had as a creed not to leave anyone on the street. This creed must be there today, even if it has a lower quality of reception, temporarily, but no one should be left on the street. It's really a plan of action to be carried out now. The actions that must be undertaken, I am not in a position to mention them to you. I hear we're talking about the hotel option, which I knew in 2011-12. If this can help avoid having people on the street, either. On the other hand, I know for having applied it at the time, this solution does not allow to avoid sleep merchants or conditions at disastrous and disrespectful times towards migrants. So I would not go to that solution. If the hotel option were to be considered, it would have to be done with a framework other than the one that could be put in place at the time. We did the best we could, but experience has shown that this is not the best option. I think that what we must do in any case is, first, to leave no one on the street and, second, to really speed up the procedure at the level of the Office of the Commissioner-General for Refugees and Stateless Persons (CCRA). However, I am afraid when I hear Dirk Van den Bulck talking about 11,000 late files at the CGRA. The acceleration will obviously have the advantage of relieving the network at some point, at least I hope. Indeed, many of these 11,000 files are still in the network today but, at some point, the decisions taken will lead to an additional workload for the Litigation Council and create a snowball effect, if I can afford this wordplay a few days from Christmas holidays. In any case, we must give the means. The real solution is this: to hire staff in the proceedings. The faster you decide, the more measures you take that do not open up places. If we open today, it is more because of a saturation of decisions than because of a lack of reception places. It is the time spent in these places that generates saturation. I would also like to congratulate the members of Fedasil for their determination and courage. It is felt that, since 2015, they have not been able to get out of this crisis and are constantly having to deal with problematic situations. Fatigue is there; they need perspectives; migrants need perspectives; everyone needs perspectives. I had a question to ask you, but you don't have to answer it. We're two days away from Christmas. We know that the federal authorities are usually closed between Christmas and New Year. What will be the attitude of Fedasil and the Office of Foreigners regarding the reception? Are we going to open and continue to welcome? Or, on the contrary, during this period, since there are days of closure, will people be on the street and risk being welcomed only on January 3rd? Could you answer that question and tell me if you mentioned a measure of continuity of service? If that is the case, I would at least be relieved of that aspect. Thank you and I wish those who work best not to leave anyone on the street.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic648x.u12	Mr Rigot, to answer your question regarding the employees of Fedasil and the Office of Foreigners, on public holidays, the Petit-Château is closed. Every other day of the year, except on weekends and public holidays, the services continue to work. During the period between Christmas and New Year, there are days when the Petit-Château is open, like the rest of the year.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic648x.u13	First of all, Mr Secretary of State, I regret that you have not yet abandoned the plans for Boom, despite your recent insinuations on TV. Unfortunately, I did not get an answer on the budget allocated to convert this totally unsafe and highly outdated tax building into a viable asylum centre. You were also vague about the other questions. You have recently complained in the newspapers about the so-called fake news about your plans in Boom, but despite your statements just now, there is no communication with the Boom people on a quote in De Afsaak and a phone call to the mayor after. The Red Cross hurls in silence and you refused a polite invitation to come and explain it personally to the Boom people. Complaining about so-called fake news but lacking the courage to explain it to the victims of your policy is of course not very brave. The effort you made recently to make your statement about Boom in De Aangeld, of course, drew all the attention to it. The motion you referred to at the time was supported by all the parties in the Boom City Council. The local CD&V group, which held the pen for the many amendments to my motion, also supports the massive opposition to this asylum centre. Whether this resistance takes place through pamphlets of different political parties, black flags on the façades, posters on the windows, successful demonstrations or motions in the city council, the Flemish Interest supports all these forms of legal resistance against this asylum centre. We will continue to do so in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic648x.u14	Thank you, Secretary of State, for the information you have given me on this specific issue in this very general debate about the centre of Glons. I mean that there is still a capacity to increase and that the proposals made by the commune can receive a careful ear and, why not, lead to interesting future initiatives. I agree with what Mr Rigot said, and I am fully aware that you have to take on a very difficult task at the moment, Mr Secretary of State. But in my view, with all the difficulties we face, it is necessary to find the balance points that allow us to have interesting integrative policies. The proposal I made to you was one.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic648x.u15	Thank you, Secretary of State, for your detailed answers. I believe that the quality of work of people at Fedasil is a key element and you mentioned it. I think we take the problem on the bright side. In fact, we know that if the quality of work improves, absenteeism decreases, and more people will be willing to work in the Fedasil adventure. This also allows the opening of seats. So that's very good news. I would like to ask myself one more question because I did not understand very well the passage on the barracks. You evoke 70 places in Gloss, with a perspective of 240 places. You said there were, in the past, up to 5,000 squares in the barracks. Today, how many squares are in the barracks? If you wish, I will put my question in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic648x.u16	I would point out that today, more than 5,000 seats are already being used on Defence sites. These are centres that have been in existence for years, some of which are active. Others were not active. At the same time, 70 were added.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic648x.u17	Thank you. However, I would like to ask your colleague, Mrs Dedonder, a question. I see that we are at 1000 places in the Netherlands as a matter of urgency. And when you're in 70 places when you have a 240-seat perspective, it still raises questions. As far as the ALAs are concerned, we've done the job. We're also asking for our communes. We have meetings with the aldermen and with the presidents of CPAS where we explain things, but we see that there is a lack of information. I encourage you, through any federated entities, to disseminate information about ILAs. For example, many municipalities raised the issue of staff. If they find themselves facing an additional workload, who will take it into account? It would be really interesting to have local work in relation to ILAs, like the work you have already done with Mr. Prévot in Namur on other topics. In fact, I am convinced that this is a key to the problem. Respecting one another is also when one disagrees. I'm angry, but I'm going to say it politely. I can't let you say we asked to open a Sheraton or a Hilton for asylum seekers. You say that there is a risk of air calls from migrants from other countries if we open places in hotels. Although we have a very important quality of hotels in Brussels, not all hotels are high quality hotels. However, they would still allow for tolerable reception for migrants. To say to people who, for some, have travelled thousands of kilometres and who are fleeing situations of torture or discrimination, that they are going to sleep on the street because they are considered to be putting them in a hotel room warm, that will attract others, that is not acceptable, Mr Mahdi. That's not our point of view. If this evening, tomorrow night and the day after tomorrow, people are still sleeping on the street, you must be able to reassess this possibility of opening places in hotels. You can't tell someone that he's going to sleep on the street because we're afraid that others are coming. It's just not acceptable.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic648x.u18	Mr Secretary of State, thank you very much for your comprehensive answer. I wish you every success in all of this, of course. If I have understood you correctly, we would now have a final decision or final progress in the very short term, this week, where everyone should be and should remain in care, unless there is, of course, a very large increase. Mr President, I understand that my question No. 55023603C was also added to the topical and urgent debate. Maybe I missed a bit, but I'm not sure I got the answers to that question. Mr Secretary of State, I had several questions in that context. One particular question, which I have already asked in the context of the policy paper, I would like to put to you. We often talk about the fact that secondary migration would have increased. I do not doubt that, but at the same time I do not see that in the figures. There is no doubt that I am overlooking something, but I note that the share of Dublin decisions in the DVZ remains at the same level, in particular 11.5 %. So I wonder what I don't understand. If it is effective that there is more secondary migration, for example, should that cell not be strengthened so that more decisions can be taken there too? I know that there are many problems with the implementation of Dublin decisions, but there must, of course, be Dublin decisions in the first place. If we see that they remain at a similar level, how exactly is that possible and what can be done about it?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic648x.u19	Dear Secretary of State, thank you for your answers. I heard you were not informed by the Brussels Government. That might be because CD&V isn't in the coalition, but it's pretty uncollectible from your coalition partners in the federal government. I have not heard clearly whether Brussels is considering an extension of that initiative and whether they have already discussed it with you. I did not hear any clear condemnation either, in the sense that you would ask them to stop this initiative and the resulting suction effect immediately. As regards the second question, we heard that 168 cases were brought against Fedasil, but that you were able to prevent payment of periodic penalty payments by providing timely reception. That is of course good, but it is not a sustainable policy. In order to implement sustainable policies, we urgently need to reduce inflow and increase outflow. Instead of providing additional emergency relief, we may need to consider emergency measures that could lead to at least a temporary migration stop with a global package. I have also heard a lot about underage asylum seekers, unaccompanied minors. We will have this further in the context of other questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic648x.u20	If no one else wants to speak, I can regard this topical and urgent debate as closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic648x.u21	Mrs. Jadin has already left. That's too bad. Mrs. Bury is present via Zoom.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic648x.u22	I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic648x.u23	Mrs Bury, the ongoing judicial investigation will show what happened. So as long as the investigation is ongoing, I'd like to be careful with statements about the case. I think you can understand that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic648x.u24	My services are in contact with the parquet and the municipality of Anderlecht and are still waiting for further clarifications on the number of persons involved and the exact files, but note that the information in the press is not correct. What's it about? For the sake of clarity, I am only expressing my opinion on the alleged fraud with residence documents and not on the driving licences. These are the so-called Annexes 19a and 19a, which provide evidence for the application for a certificate of registration of an EU citizen for a stay of more than three months. On the basis of information obtained from my services, it is not fraudulent residence documents, but the abuse is that intermediaries or municipal officials were paid to give priority to an appointment at the municipality to obtain that Annex 19. It would seem to be between EUR 70 and EUR 250. Those concerned would have fulfilled the conditions for obtaining an Annex 19. The abuse at the level of the municipality would therefore consist of paying municipal officials to give priority to an appointment. If the data subjects gave an incorrect address, which would be the case, they would not have received a certificate of immatriculation or E-card, because no positive home check could take place. Earlier this year, my services noted that some EU citizens generally applied for registration without the intention of obtaining a right of residence of more than three months. The aim would be to obtain certain social benefits on the basis of Annex 19. The DVZ has already been in contact with the Brussels Labour Auditoriaat, with the National Institute for Social Insurance of the Self-employed and with the AViQ, l'Agence pour une Vie de Qualité of the Fédération Wallonie-Bruxelles, to inform them of this possible abuse. Those last two administrations indicated that they would amend their procedures so that foreigners would no longer be entitled to certain allowances solely on the basis of the application for a certificate of registration. In this respect, I am very pleased that my services have at least done everything to indicate at Brussels level that there was a need for a change in this area and that it has been implemented effectively. Should it prove that the right of residence has been fraudulently obtained, the residence cards will be withdrawn, which means that the persons concerned must leave the territory. I should also like to point out that the recovery of benefits of any kind does not fall within my competence. The administration continues its work on structural consultation with all relevant administrations. The fraud coordinator, who was recently appointed to my question, will play an important role in the coming years.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic648x.u25	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply, which contains several facets. It is important, however, that you state that they have been given priority and that cases have therefore been paid extra. However, they fulfilled the conditions. So that's something that wasn't in the press. That's important. You also claim that the investigation is ongoing. Should the conditions prove not to have been met, they will be deported. I will write the issue in my original agenda to question you in a few months or even a year's time on how the investigation ended. It would not only be about a Brussels municipality, but also about Ninove. You indicate that you currently have no knowledge of E-cards obtained without valid conditions. As far as compensation and fraud are concerned, you answer that your administration has dealt with the problem by means of procedures. In this respect, it is important that you follow up, see how the procedures have been changed, and that you place on your agenda to check the following year whether the changes have been effective and no fraudulent payments are unduly made. You claim that it is not up to you to recover those benefits if they were wrongly granted to the persons concerned. However, I often hear such things. You are a member of the government in which you all work. It is therefore very important that the names in question are passed on through you. Of course, that is also up to the Minister of Justice. I also asked the Minister of Justice this question at the outset. There must be very good cooperation so that we can assume that amounts can be recovered when they have been fraudulently obtained. I will submit a few written questions for follow-up.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic648x.u26	Mr De Smet, detention centres are subject to several monitoring mechanisms. There is the Schengen Evaluation Committee, the Internal SPF Complaints Committee or indirect oversight by NGOs and Members of Parliament, to name but a few. There may still be a debate on how best to organise this control, but I think that good control is not limited to giving everyone access. As the policy of expulsion and the management of detention centres is a federal responsibility, I do not see the added value of granting access to the members of the parliaments of the regions or to the Belgian members of the European Parliament. After all, they are not part of the competent legislative power, and therefore of the supervisory power. I think that at the federal level, on the other hand, everyone has the right and must use that competence to do what he or she has to do. But widening it, in itself, given the fairly clear powers at the federal level, does not seem to me to be sensible. If we were to grant access to Members of the European Parliament, I think it would be absolutely useless to see this only in the Belgian context. In this case, MEPs of all European Union nationalities should have access to closed centres in all Member States. I think this is a discussion that can take place at European Parliament level. On the issue of access to NGOs, there are currently 72 persons accredited to 27 NGOs in total. Therefore, I do not agree at all with you when you say that the number is very limited. I would like to add that the Aliens Office approves almost all applications for accreditation. However, it is logical that the immigration department, which is responsible for managing the centres – which is an extremely complex and delicate task – should know who will have access to their facilities and decide whether or not to grant them access. This access, in the end, is almost always granted. This principle cannot be called into question in terms of safety and management. With regard to the monitoring of closed centres and return policy in general, I am not in favour of independent visitor status. It is important that this monitoring be carried out by organizations that are not only aware of, but also bear responsibility for, the problems of forced returns. This is the only way to carry out thorough control, qualitative control and neutral control, which already exists, as I indicated at the beginning of my reply. In conclusion, the discussions on OPCAT are under way and my firm is actively participating in it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic648x.u27	Thank you, Secretary of State for your answers. I'll give you two thoughts. There is a debate as to whether MEPs are not part of a competent legislative body, since a number of standards, including on detention and removal, depend on the European level. I think that with this reasoning it could be. But I would like to join you on enlargement. One could imagine that the same would be true in all the Member States of the Union. That would even be interesting. I believe that the role of MEPs as visitors would be fully justified. I come to the independent expert visitors. For practicing it in other lives, I think it's really an added value. This is all the more so as we are still waiting for the mechanism and the real work on the establishment of OPCAT. I should have been more complete in my question and asked you when you thought you would land on this file that did not arrive with you. It's been a while and we can't blame you for his delay. But as long as we do not have an independent national mechanism for the prevention of torture and inhuman and degrading treatment, I find this to justify, a fortiori, that members of civil society should be accredited and granted visiting power. I understand that this is not exactly the same power as federal parliamentarians. I myself, my colleague Moutquin and a few others are using it. I think it's good. We have to go to the closed centres to see the reality of things. Civil society is a complementary tool and I think it needs to be considered with greater attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic648x.u28	Mr Secretary of State, many students, especially Moroccans, who apply for visas would encounter difficulties with the Aliens Office. I am told that the processing time for visa applications would be very long. Some students should wait more than four months before getting an answer. Moreover, the response of the Aliens Office does not always correspond to the dates of return to school. Many universities therefore refuse the admission of students who are granted a visa. Mr Secretary of State, what is the average processing time for a study visa application? Are you considering taking steps to reduce this delay? Would it be possible, in order to ensure greater legal certainty, to combine the processing of visa applications studied with the beginning of classical academic cycles in Belgium? Is it possible, for example, to provide a time interval for the submission of applications for study visas for the academic year of the following year and then to set a date, before the end of the deadlines for the registration procedures, at which the Aliens Office must have decided on all applications for study visas received for the academic year in question?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic648x.u29	Mr De Smet, this year, one in six long-stay visa applications were submitted for studies in Belgium. Our country is therefore unquestionably attractive. At the same time, I see a further increase in visa applications compared to 2019 (13,070 currently for 12,537 in 2019). This pressure poses a capacity problem at all levels: the enrolment services of higher education institutions, the Committee on Equivalencies in the Wallonia-Brussels Federation, the embassies and consulates and the Office for Foreigners. On the other hand, there are a few positions which refer to the fields and professionalisation of the networks of support for the preparation of dossiers and the preparation of candidates, sometimes with false documents, tutorials, paid guarantors, etc. It is in this difficult context that the Aliens Office is called upon to examine thousands of cases in a few weeks during the summer. As a general rule, this treatment follows a chronological order, the reference date being the date of submission of the application, and the average processing time was less than 90 days. However, several factors, including a request for additional documents, a request for an opinion or an appeal, are likely to disrupt this chronological order and extend the processing time of an individual application. The Aliens Office shall not grant a visa beyond the date fixed by an educational institution for final registration. However, he does not have control over the period within which a decision is executed by the competent embassy or consulate or about the time taken by the student to arrive in Belgium after receiving his visa. Reducing processing times is a horizontal concern. It is generally dependent on the means available to the administration and the volume of visa applications studied poses a real capacity problem at all levels. The regulations set a time limit within which the Aliens Office had to make a decision, but they did not a priori allow the time intervals and deadlines to be fixed. But I understand the idea you're defending. I'll think about it for the academic year to come. In any case, as far as student visas are concerned, it is necessary to see how to guarantee and continue to guarantee further the possibility for students to move and to go from one country to another, avoiding certain channels using this channel for other purposes. Indeed, if these channels become more important, some might wonder about these visas, which must be avoided because it is an important tool for sharing knowledge.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic648x.u30	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. The correlation between academic deadlines and student visas is part of the answer because it would effectively prevent a series of frauds. I would therefore like to thank you for continuing to work on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic648x.u31	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, under the previous legislature, the federal government has completely disinvested in its responsibilities for the reception of certain migrants. In order to remedy this failure and guarantee human dignity, the Brussels Region made the choice, at the time, to finance the accommodation and reception of migrants, most of whom are so-called transit migrants, who make up 70% of the homeless population in Brussels, even though the reception of migrants is primarily a federal responsibility. I am told today that the Brussels Region would always replace the federal government with regard to the financing of reception, including accommodation and the distribution of food, as well as emergency medical assistance and assistance in the preparation of asylum applications. During the health crisis, the Region also took steps to ensure maximum accommodation for migrants. Today, it intervenes much more than the share to which it had consented. Finally, the Region has been asking the federal government to take on its responsibilities for several months, a request to which the federal government would remain deaf to date. This seems surreal to me since a new government has been in office for almost a year now. Here are my questions. Why does the federal government not take responsibility for receiving these migrants? Have progressive budgets been or are they going to be released for hospitality funding? Does the federal government intend, in the long term, to resume financing entirely on its own account or, conversely, will it continue to rely on the Brussels Region? How do you respond to the many requests made by the government of Brussels, including also I believe by epistolary means? Have you ever worked with Vervoort on this issue? If so, what has emerged? Finally, will the federal funding for the reception of transmigrants be addressed during the interdepartmental conference Migration which is to start?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic648x.u32	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. Mr Moutquin, earlier you told me that when you disagreed, you would let me know. It's my turn. It is my turn to make it clear that, with regard to the reception of migrants, the federal authority is not necessarily competent for the reception of all migrants. Where there are undocumented persons on Belgian territory, it is not within the competence of the federal authority to accommodate persons who are illegally staying on Belgian territory. As far as asylum seekers are concerned, I fully agree with you that this is our responsibility. We need to do everything we can and not leave someone on the street who has made a request and wants an answer as quickly as possible. Fedasil is therefore well competent for the reception of asylum seekers as well as for the reception of unaccompanied minors (MENA) in the observation and orientation phase. This is, I think, the element on which we must continue to work with regard to people living illegally in Belgium. This is another debate. These people can join Fedasil's network if they want to return voluntarily to their country of origin. I think it is important to make that clear. Mr. Moutquin, you have also asked questions about Reach Out, the team that is on the ground to inform people living irregularly about options in Belgium and about voluntary return. In this regard, I would like to point out that there is still a misconception about what Reach Out is and his work on the ground. This team provides information on the asylum procedure, on the legal possibilities in Belgium, and not just on voluntary return. We are trying to explain, especially to the typical cases that we know quite well such as the Somalis, the Eritreans - who think that Great Britain is the Eldorado and the place where they have to go, which is why they take the risk of going from Calais to Dover - that what they are told is not always fair, and that they must understand what the legal means are available to them. So there are misconceptions on the ground, which are sometimes conveyed by people who are distrustful of other organisations, but also of migrants themselves and, unfortunately, of several members of the committee as well. So I really want to make it clear that it is essential that we convey the same message as Fedasil's Reach Out team, which does a remarkable job on a daily basis. Secondly, there are pilot projects, which are part of the government agreement, which I would like to clarify. Another pilot project is being developed with the CPAS in Brussels, in order to better guide people living illegally and to see how they could be accompanied to return to a regular stay or to benefit from a return. I work closely with Ministers Vervoort and Maron on these points. We are openly considering the various avenues and the possible mode of collaboration. The theme of welcoming migrants in general has not been put on the ICD's agenda. The first theme concerns the MENA that we discussed earlier and on which we will come back. After the MENA, I would like to point out that the next theme will be the activation of regular migrants in Belgium. It will then be a question of determining how people who are on Belgian territory can be activated on a regular basis. For having lived much of my life in Brussels, I know how enormous the stakes of people who are illegally staying on Belgian territory are. Here I am thinking in particular of Molenbeekois territory, Schaerbeekois, because they are communes where I have lived myself. But it is not very useful to look at each other because the reality is that it is not the federal level's responsibility to welcome these people. What we are trying to do is to accompany them as best we can, in the ICAM procedures, to have an individual accompaniment and determine how to get out of the irregularity. Is it through a regular stay? In this case, what are the channels? Or is it through a return and what help can we provide at this level? But aiming at the federal level for reception is not very useful because it is not within our competence and I do not think it is the best solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic648x.u33	Mr. Secretary of State, I can hear you. But if it is not the federal jurisdiction, who is it? These people are in a no-right zone and nothing that makes all public authorities feel concerned, even though the Region and some municipalities are part of the job. I understand that, formally, the federal state is competent only when these people are able to apply for asylum. They can do it without problems. However, the reality of the facts goes beyond the division of powers. I think there are solutions. The French, in particular, when they dismantled one of the jungles, had divided these transit migrants into several orientation centres and had managed to ensure that many of them applied for asylum. There are indeed myths to be deconstructed, including the English eldorado. Indeed, there are groups of smugglers and traffickers of human beings to be dismantled. There is no doubt about that. But I believe that the federal state must do much more and, despite the division of powers, could participate in a more efficient referral centre for transit migrants, which is not based solely on the impression that the authorities are no more competent than the federal government but that they cannot allow this de facto situation to continue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic648x.u34	Mr Secretary of State, it is true that these people do not fall under the jurisdiction of the federal government, but are undocumented, they remain migrants in the real sense of the term, in the absence of legal meaning. While I recognize that the federal government does not have direct jurisdiction in this area, it is competent for urgent medical assistance, trafficking and trafficking in human beings. In Brussels, many people are affected by this scourge, especially the women in prostitution I have met, the people exploited on construction sites at 3 euros an hour. They are often picked up in Brussels. This is where we can see that our Belgian institutional lasagna cannot be used as an excuse for a major social issue, namely the presence of undocumented people in Brussels (10% of the population) and the need to find a solution. You have to get around the table to discuss it and stop pointing out the responsibilities in the head of one or the other. A few months ago, we did it for the floods. This has been done for the management of a pandemic. It will be possible to go beyond these distributions of competences on the migration issue. I reassure my colleagues in the committee: when the Brussels Region or the City of Brussels takes decisions, since they are homeless people who will therefore be the first statutes to be taken into account, this does not put our Vivaldi coalition at risk.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic648x.u35	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, after the chaotic retreat of the West from Afghanistan, twenty-four EU Member States have already evacuated around 28,000 Afghans, according to figures from the European Commission. Following a meeting of European Ministers for the Interior on Thursday 9 December, EU Commissioner Ylva Johansson announced that 15 European Member States had declared their readiness to absorb some 40,000 Afghans. In a letter from Johansson, which the DPA (Deutsche Presse-Agentur) was able to look at, there were 38.146 commitments. According to Johansson, the initiative would contribute to controlled migration and counter illegal influx. Following the takeover of power by the Taliban at the end of August, most EU Member States did not yet want to make concrete commitments or give figures in this respect, in order not to encourage illegal entry into Europe. Instead, the focus, also by yourself, was put on help and shelter in the region at the time. Mr Secretary of State, can you confirm the message? If so, are there 40,000 additional commitments to resettlement in addition to the 28,000 already evacuated Afghans? Fifteen EU Member States made commitments, but countries like Austria, already faced with a high illegal influx of Afghans, refused. What commitments did Belgium make in this context and how many people are involved? In your policy paper, you commit yourself to an ambitious but also realistic growth path, which is 1,250 people next year. How many places do you reserve for Afghans in that? In view of the current asylum crisis, do you consider your commitment to be realistic and justified? What financial efforts did Belgium make and provide for reception in Afghanistan's neighbouring countries?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic648x.u36	Mr President, Mr Van Langenhove, the communication delivered is not entirely correct. It is indeed a question of commitment from the Member States, not of resettlement in the narrow sense. The Commission provides funding of EUR 6,000 to EUR 8,000 per person, depending on the vulnerability criteria, for Afghans who come to a Member State via a humanitarian channel and obtain international protection there. That possibility of financing starts retroactively from 1 January 2021 and runs until the end of 2022. Belgium reported some of the 425 persons evacuated in the Red Kite operation. It is by no means a commitment, but rather an assessment of how many persons of those 425 may be among the target groups, Afghans who will come to Belgium via the evacuation or with a humanitarian visa or who will subsequently be protected by the CGVS. That number is neither a goal nor a restriction on the number of visas to be issued. In the resettlement programme, which does involve a commitment to the European Commission and UNHCR, we have set all the priorities according to UNHCR's priority list. Afghans are not part of the target group that will be selected for resettlement in 2022. Resettlement is not the right channel to help these people quickly. The aim of resettlement is to provide a future perspective for refugees living in a hopeless situation in third countries. There are Afghans in such a situation, but those are not the ones who have just left the country. Together with Fedasil, we will do everything we can to meet our commitments in 2022. However, you are right to point out that we must continue to take account of the situation of the reception network. As regards your final question on the financial effort for reception in the region, I must refer you to Minister Kitir. For the rest, it is important to point out that my words "not correct" mainly refer to what I have read in certain newspapers or on social media. If a promise is made, it is retroactive and the European Commission provides 6,000 to 8,000 euros per person. So we are giving an indication of how many people that would be around here to benefit from funding from the European Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic648x.u37	So, Mr Secretary of State, the information we were able to get through the media was absolutely not enlightening and not clear. My only observation is that, of course, we do not really get that money from the European Commission, but that, as Flemings, and also as Belgians, we are the biggest net contributors to those budgets, which fortunately we will now get a small part back to finance the huge asylum crisis in this country. As far as the funds released for reception in the region are concerned, I will submit additional questions to Minister Kitir.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic648x.u38	Dear Secretary of State, during its temporary two-year mandate, the Bossuyt Commission set up in March 2018 had to focus on the practical implementation of the legal and regulatory provisions of the return policy and evaluate the cooperation between the different actors. We have all been able to go through this in detail. However, the advice of the Federal Migration Centre, Myria, is to set up a permanent independent committee to evaluate the return policy as a whole. Do you agree with Myria's advice? Will you set up a permanent independent committee to review the return policy as a whole on a permanent basis?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic648x.u39	Mr Van Langenhove, the return has always been a weak link in asylum and migration policy throughout the European Union. We in Belgium also need a little bit of work. I therefore immediately contacted Professor Bossuyt when I took office and consulted him on the findings and recommendations of the committee. By the way, he was at the top of my list of people I needed to talk to. In the first instance, it is appropriate to start work on the existing report rather than to set up a new committee immediately. There are a lot of recommendations in that. I have already said a few times that they are important to shape the return policy. I think it is more important to work on this than to bring together the same group each time. Moreover, I am fully engaged in transforming the existing policy into a restrictive return policy. One of the main issues raised by the Bossuyt Commission was indeed the need to develop a restrictive return policy and that asylum seekers should be followed individually rather than just getting a piece of paper. Moreover, this recommendation resulted in the procedures for individual case management support or ICAM procedures, which were proposed last week in Antwerp and a month ago in Brussels. This is a step-by-step policy in which we give everyone the opportunity to be followed individually. So I have already taken various measures and explained them in committee. In the coming year, I will develop initiatives and submit a draft law on this subject. I intend to complete this reform first. Afterwards, as far as I am concerned, there can be no doubt about the establishment of a new committee on return policy. Moreover, I do not think it is wrong to pay constant attention to the return policy. However, let us do it in the right order. Let us first implement what needs to be implemented on the basis of the recommendations of the Bossuyt Committee. Then we can work on the continuous evaluation, which I am certainly not opposed to.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic648x.u40	Mr Secretary of State, we agree with your position on the Permanent Evaluation Committee. As a Flemish Interest Group, we also believe that the recommendations of the Bossuyt Committee should first be implemented. Those recommendations are pretty clear. We've hammered on it a lot in the past. They are also clear to you, as has been shown by the many discussions and debates we have already had on this subject. Unfortunately, they are not so clear to many of your green and red coalition partners and they refuse to implement them. If you want to pursue a genuine policy of return, you must finally implement a number of measures recommended by the Bossuyt Committee, such as the drafting of a law on residential trespasses in illegality. Temporary confinement of families with children in adapted return units should also be possible. These are all initiatives that, according to the Bossuyt Committee, are needed for a so-called "repatriation policy'. We have also tabled a motion with the Flemish interest with ten concrete measures to make such a return policy possible. You can also request our brochure Fort Europa via the website of the Flemish Interest; you will find lots of inspiration to work on such a pressing return policy. Maybe that's something to read by the fire during Christmas.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic648x.u41	Mr President, I would like to advise my committee colleagues on Jean Ziegler's very good book Why migration? Myths and reality, which disassembles all the false information of the far right on migration. Secretary of State, with the Junior Masudi case, we could have believed a terrible mistake. Then, with the Yves Kouakou case, we realized that there was really a problem in the way the border police analysed the visas of people entering the territory. On 19 November, Ragini Upadhayaya Grela, a Nepalese artist, was arrested. For what reasons? She had been in Nepal for two years and therefore had to make further efforts to exercise her right of return. However, during these two years, the covid-19 pandemic went through it, resulting in the closure of borders and compulsory vaccination to travel. These elements, together with Mrs Grela's valid residence permit and entry visa, did not prevent the border police from detaining her. In order to close this episode, the Aliens Office then changed the grounds for arrest and revoked Mrs Grela's Schengen visa, which was also in order. In order to be in order, Ms. Grela should have returned to Nepal, notified her municipality of residence in Belgium of her return and waited for her approval, asked for a visa again on her way to New Delhi, India, before returning to Nepal to take a plane. We are therefore well in front of a fresco of Belgian surrealism. Mr Secretary of State, why are people systematically presenting documents in order arrested at our borders? Why does the Aliens Office, in many of these cases, change the grounds for detention after the arrest? Do you find this just for the lawyers who work in these cases? If a visa has been issued in due form, on what basis can the Aliens Office invalidate it? How can we objective and control detentions in closed centres at our borders? Can we consider that the prior agreement of a judge is necessary? Can visa application procedures not be made digitally to facilitate applications in countries where Belgium does not have an embassy? Can not the procedures for ordering his residence situation in Belgium – as here concerning the warning of his return to his municipality of residence – be carried out directly in our territory? What do you think of the psychological consequences of detention in a closed centre on the basis of such weak elements, caused to all these people that they are arrested and released at the end of the day?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic648x.u42	Mr Secretary of State, I have already asked you several questions about certain arrests at Zaventem Airport. Those arrests were always found to have occurred for questionable, often suspicious reasons. Unfortunately, I have to repeat myself again today. Yesterday it was Junior Masudi and Yves Kouakou, today it is Brise Ngomgang and Raphael Nzengele. Rafael was passing through here to Porto to study there. He would normally have spent a few hours in Zaventem, but instead he was immediately isolated. He was interviewed without an interpreter in Dutch and then locked up in a closed center. Meanwhile, he has missed his entrance exam in Porto and has developed serious health problems. Brise is in possession of an F-card and lives in Boom, where he raises his children together with his wife. He came back from a trip to Cameroon, but was locked in a closed center because the airport police thought he didn't look enough like the photo on his identity card. After three weeks incarcerated, he was deported. In the meantime, we know that these arrests, as with Junior Masudi, took place on an unlawful basis. Brise's identity was proven by a DNA test. Two won professions at the RVV exonerated him. Yet he was humiliated and violently expelled from the country. Raphael also won his first instance appeal, but was still not released. Mr. Secretary of State, who controls the Foreign Office? What is the point of a Council for Aliens' Contests if the DVZ can randomly ignore a decision? Why do you keep raising doubts about these people's files when it has been proven that they had the right to stay or to travel on our territory? Finally, what will you do to stop these practices?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic648x.u43	Mr President, Mr Moutquin, Mrs Daems, I refer to the answer I gave in committee on 5 October. Besides this, the fact of holding a visa does not automatically give a right of entry into the territory. This principle was further confirmed by the judgment of the Foreign Litigation Council in the Junior Masudi case. A foreigner does not automatically have an entry fee under the Type D visa for studies. Compliance with the conditions for granting a visa and the examination of these conditions by the embassy, as well as the fact that the visa had not yet been withdrawn at the time when the controversial decision was taken, do not allow for an ipso facto conclusion that the alien may enter the territory and do not prevent the border control authorities from again checking the conditions upon entry into the territory. Entry conditions are therefore checked again at the time of border control and according to different elements. The competent authorities may consider that they are not completed. The legal basis is found in Regulation of the European Union 2016/399 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 9 March 2016 on a Union Code on personal border crossing regimes. I can be technical, but I can also be very simple: if you go abroad, whether it's Canada or the United States, you might also have a piece of paper in your hands to explain the reason for your visit. There too, however, there is a chance that the border police will check and question you at the airport and that a decision will be taken if there are doubts. After all, we live in a rule of law where that is respected. If not, I wonder what other models of society you would be proposing, Mrs Daems. Each file shall be assessed separately and on its own merits. Where it is considered that the entry conditions are not met, the documents shall be examined and the foreigner shall be questioned. Decisions on whether or not to allow entry into the territory shall be taken on the basis of all the elements specific to the file. There is therefore no point in throwing files at a pile and drawing general conclusions on the basis of partial information. I'll come back to this later. Each person shall have the right to appeal if he or she does not agree with the decision. The decision to withdraw is open to an application to the Council for foreign nationals' disputes. The detention order shall be open to an application to the Board Chamber. That is the rule of law in which we live. In the cases cited, the courts have upheld the DVZ. The fact that some persons have finally been released has nothing to do with the correctness of the decision taken by the DVZ, but with the fact that new elements have come to light after the decision has been taken and that the DVZ has taken this into account in a later consideration. It is therefore not a matter of doing anything against the Foreign Office, against the administration or against the border police, who do nothing but do their best on the ground every day. As for visa application procedures, Mr. Moutquin, I must refer you back to Mrs. Wilmès, who is competent in this matter. With regard to your question about procedures for putting the situation of residence in Belgium into order, if they cannot be carried out directly in our territory, I would remind you that Belgium is also obliged to comply with the European provisions on the control of external borders. Finally, Mrs Daems, I deeply regret that you claim that I cast doubt on these individual dossiers. May I point out that you are the one who contains incorrect and/or incomplete information about these files in your questioning or distributes them on social media? With Mr Brise Ngomgang there was fraud in the file. In the third judgment of the RVV, on which you remain silent in your question, but that may be a coincidence, the DVZ was said to be right. If the DVZ is agreed by the RVV, that seems to me to be something that needs to be taken into account. But again, I choose the rule of law, you are free to choose another model. In the young Raphael's file, there were also valid elements for moving to the measures taken by the DVZ. For privacy reasons, I will not go into this further, and I would really recommend that you do the same in the future and take care of yourself with information that you may receive indirectly and which is incomplete because you have been given it incompletely or because you only share part of it. You, like many of us, are right to criticise the fact that some parties sometimes act anecdotally and take the case of a person who, because of his background, would then be indicative of that community as a whole. You're actually doing the same thing with our administration. You take out one case, of which you share only half of the information with the rest of the people here to say on that basis that the administration, the police and the Department of Foreign Affairs are not doing a good job. So I invite you to be complete in the future, but in fact I would like to invite you to handle information correctly, to respect privacy and not to act anecdotally. No one benefits from a policy whereby we accuse on the basis of anecdotal authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic648x.u44	Mr Secretary of State, it is no secret to anyone, the migration policy within this Vivaldi government is certainly one of the most complicated, given the differences of opinion. However, we agree on several points. We agree on the objective of the policy in question, and on the need for transparency. I call here to agree on the lack of logic that sometimes exists in our procedures. I repeat that in order for this 62-year-old woman from Nepal not to be locked up, she had to return to her country, warn her municipality of residence in Belgium of her return and wait for her approval, request a visa again on her way to New Delhi, India, before returning to Nepal to take a plane. There's something wrong with that! Asking this 62-year-old woman to go back to the pandemic – and I am not talking here about the issue of CO2 emissions – to go to the municipality where she lived for two years because part of her visa application was not in order is a problem. Some mechanisms need to be considered. You've already expressed your opinion on the opportunity to lock up. Today, all the people referred to have been released. But we should not underestimate the psychological impact of their arrest on these people and realize that a problem of mechanisms may arise. You invited me to interview Mrs Wilmès, but I also intend to interview Mrs Verlinden about the border police. Indeed, I would like to understand what questions are being asked, to whom, when, by whom and when this information is transmitted to the Aliens Office. Are these questions asked systematically? After that, we will have to have a political debate and we may not agree. But there are things to dig at.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic648x.u45	Mr Secretary of State, how can you continue to defend this policy? A few months ago it was Junior, barely a month later Yves Kouakou and the new cases keep pouring in. You continue to protect your services unconditionally while several conditions have already been met for a thorough investigation into the operation of the DVZ. You also continue to emphasise the moral responsibility of the victims while their innocence has been proven. On the one hand, you place an infinite responsibility on the persons who are detained while on the other hand you give carte blanche to the DVZ. Then you ask me how I see a state of law. In a rule of law there should be balance of power and control, the so-called checks and balances, and that is what you are doing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic648x.u46	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, as you know, sexual orientation and gender can sometimes be additional vulnerabilities for migrants arriving at our homes. The reception centres are sometimes the scene of violence against LGBTQIA+ people (I would say LGBT in the wake of my intervention) who are encouraged to be discreet about their sexuality in order to avoid trouble. Thus, I welcome the opening of the first reception centre for LGBT migrants in the Brussels Region, led by civil society actors such as Le Refuge and Secretary of State Sarah Schlitz. If this is a great step forward, the fourteen places currently available at this centre will not suffice in the face of a huge demand. As its manager says, the centre "does not have enough to last six months". Mr Secretary of State, do you intend to support, for example, the funding of this essential centre to protect LGBT migrants? Are you in contact with grass-roots organisations active in LGBT rights to better meet the needs of migrants? Are you planning to open other LGBT migrant centres to meet the demand? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic648x.u47	Mr. President, Mr. Moutquin, neither Fedasil nor my firm were contacted for the opening of this centre. I read about this center by the invitation for the opening. Maybe it would have been nice to be informed and see what we can do together, but it would have been. I still find it important to make the connection between such a centre and Fedasil, given its skills and experience. We will evaluate the collaboration and operation of this centre. In itself, I am not for centres exclusively for LGBT asylum seekers. So I'm not going to create another center of this type. It is more important to make existing centres safe for people living there. This matters for every resident, not just for the target group we're talking about. To do this, we are in good contact with the dome organizations to see how we can better accompany LGBT asylum seekers. And then, it's a question I'd like to ask everyone, even if there are not many of us today. More generally, I had a discussion with dome organizations, just to know what their vision is. Opinions are divided, even within organisations. I, at the base, was already against it, because I said to myself that we must guarantee security for everyone, whether we are homosexual or not. The other, who is not, must accept the fact that someone is. We must therefore be able to ensure that living together is also done in asylum centres. The fact that the organisations were shared reinforces me in this vision; but I really think it is worth having a more elaborate discussion on this, even in this committee, and discussing more with the organisations. Perhaps the opening of this centre will bring us new ideas to see how to move forward in this debate. I would like to clarify my opinion, but at the same time I remain open to the vision of others to see how we can really ensure that everyone is welcomed in the best conditions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic648x.u48	Thank you for your answer. I'll be right with you. As a homosexual person, I have no opinion on this kind of tendency that society has to categorize. It's very complex. However, when one hears the testimony, the reality is that these people who are already suffering because of their migrant status experience other suffering in the centres. I know that your point of view is not a question of funding. Ensuring the safety of other people in other centres is not a matter of cost. That's another question. I fully agree with you on the need to deepen the debate. There are two spaces: on the one hand, the space of our committee that could look at vulnerable audiences. We could hold hearings on this subject. On the other hand, there is also the inter-federal plan which the Secretary of State, Mrs Schlitz, will focus on violence based on gender and sexuality. This could be another place for debate. I hope that the various services will be able to coordinate to see the effect of the 17-seat centre. I also believe that France has launched a trial phase with a centre for LGBTQI+ people.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic648x.u49	Mr Secretary of State, during the hearings on the settlement of the end of the hunger strike, it appeared that guidelines to the Office of Foreigners on the treatment of humanitarian regularizations of type 9 bis were unclear. I'm nice using the term "flops." Moreover, the existence of administrative notes, or even administrative sub-notes, raises a real question of transparency which is necessary in the judgement of a case, not only for the applicants, but also for lawyers. The hearings also found that your discretion is in fact strongly linked to the operation of the Office of Foreigners and officers responsible for analysing the files on the basis of a set of negative or positive elements which we have not been able to grasp the logic. You've started an audit of the Office of Foreigners. This work seems to be an opportunity to look at the procedures within the Office of Foreigners which appear to be failing. Mr. Secretary of State, do the Administrative Notes of the Office of Foreigners exist for all files? Why are they not systematically attached to the file? Are there many sub-notes that complement these notes? Who's writing them? Who makes the final decision whether or not to regularize a person? How is the balance between negative and positive elements weighted? Is this weight changing? How do the officers of the Office of Foreigners share these elements? Have you given the objective of this audit, which will start, the analysis of the procedures around the humanitarian regularization files? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic648x.u50	Mr Moutquin, every request is analysed. A summary note is drawn up by an official dealing with the Humanitarian Stay service, who takes up the arguments and evidence put forward by the applicant, as well as his or her family situation and administrative background, if any. The note must be as complete as possible. It shall then be checked by the head of the cell of the agent concerned. Public order checks are carried out with the competent authorities, and the result of these checks is also included in the note. Requests for information may also be made to certain partners - communes, embassies and others - or to the person concerned himself or even to his counsel, with a view to clarifying or supplementing the file. The note is still filed in the file. You're talking about an audit, but it's not just the audit of the Foreign Office. We sometimes tend to forget the rest of the chain. Fedasil and the Office of the Commissioner General for Refugees and Stateless Persons (CCRA) are also audited. An audit will be carried out by Cap Gemini and will last between eight and ten months. The objective of this audit is to optimize the whole asylum chain and migration, as well as to establish the fastest and most efficient procedures possible. Without going up in volume, I would still like to react briefly. First, I personally visited several asylum centres. I visited the CGRA and also visited the Foreign Office. If there is any advice I could give the committee, even if it is not up to me to tell you what to do, it is to organize visits, not only to asylum centres or closed centres, but also to see who are the men and women who work at the Office of Foreigners day and night, who deal with each case individually, who return every page 20 times to make the right decision. There may be a different view on whether regularization is a favour or a right, or a favour that becomes a right, after setting certain criteria. There is therefore a need for flexibility, taking into account both positive and negative elements. We can, as I just said, have a different opinion on the subject. But I can't accept a completely wrong look at the Foreign Office. I personally met these people, especially the men and women who work in the 9bis Cell and who are trying to make the best decision. These people told me - I think it's a fine phrase - that at the Foreign Office, no negative decision was made, that there were only positive decisions, as they were constructive for each person. Yes, for some people, this means that he or she does not have the right to reside in Belgian territory, but these workers are trying to see how to help the person concerned find a sustainable future in his or her country of origin. So they do a respectable job. I can understand that there are apprehensions or perceptions of certain services. But I invite everyone to go to the field, to talk to these people, to see how they work. As far as I am concerned, I really thank them and respect them for the work they have done in recent years. It should be noted that both the Foreign Office, Fedasil, CGRA and the CCE, the work is really complicated. Asylum and migration are also often decisions that are not obvious. Indeed, it is not easy to tell someone that he has no right to remain in our territory, that his request is refused, that he must return from where he comes from. These workers get up in the morning and go to bed in the evening with their jobs in mind. They work with a will that we must respect. I invite everyone, I repeat, to go to the field to see what's going on there.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic648x.u51	Mr Secretary of State, I fully agree with you. I never wanted to point a finger at the work of the staff of the Foreign Office. The blur that I perceive - we could debate this issue - must also plunge them sometimes into psychological uncertainty and work discomfort that must really be complicated. What I have drawn attention to on several occasions in this committee is the inability to have a transparent debate in Belgium on the issue of regularisation, on the issue of undocumented persons, with opinions which, as we have understood, are divergent. Visiting is a very good thing. Unfortunately, given the covid pandemic, it has sometimes been forbidden. In addition, I understand that enough is now in place. As far as the criteria are concerned, I repeat, we did not have a collective regularisation in the government agreement. We don't ask for it, and we never asked for it. It was understood that there was disagreement on the establishment of clear and transparent criteria. What I am asking our committee and my fellow Members here is to have a debate on the procedures and operation of the Office of Foreigners, to understand what there is to improve for the workers of the Office of Foreigners, for the undocumented, for the lawyers and finally for all the citizens of this country.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic648x.u52	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, you have mentioned several times in your General Policy Note the need for transparency. This is really something that we support and that we have been satisfied with since you took office. This was the case with the report of the Aliens Office but also in other respects. The point I would like to address with you concerns the transparency of migrant detention centres. On several occasions, some centres have published a costed annual report that also includes different elements that have occurred in the centre. For having contacted the directorates of the centres which sometimes refer to the Aliens Office or to a report, or for explaining to us that a report is in progress or that a note is available, I was able to see that there was a real blur in the production of annual reports by the various centres. I think they had two ultra-complicated years and I can understand that this was not the priority. Therefore, I would like to see with you whether the reports of the closed centres for the year 2020 are requested by your services and whether parliamentarians, associations that control detention centres or any citizen would have access to these reports.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic648x.u53	Mr President, Mr Moutquin, in accordance with Article 135 of the Royal Decree of 2 August 2002 laying down the rules and rules of operation applicable to closed centres, each centre shall draw up an annual report which shall be forwarded to the Secretary of State or the competent minister. Since these are internal documents, any request for such reports must be addressed to the Director General of the Aliens Office, who will decide on the appropriateness of the request. In the past, for example, annual reports have already been sent to Myria. The annual public report of the Aliens Office, which is available on its website, contains a section containing information on closed centres.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic648x.u54	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. I understand that the reports of the centres are not necessarily published and that the report of the Aliens Office contains elements of these reports which must be published. I would nevertheless be of the opinion that these reports by centre could eventually be transmitted to parliamentarians. I will propose it to the committee or through another parliamentary question. Indeed, many parliamentarians are also attentive to the various federal structures in their ridings. It might therefore be interesting to have more local parliamentary monitoring or observation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic648x.u55	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I would like to ask two questions about a phenomenon that has become painfully apparent in recent months, namely the increasing number of minor asylum seekers. According to the recent annual report of the CGVS, 1.335 unaccompanied minors submitted an application for international protection last year. This is an increase from 2019 which is more than remarkable, especially in view of the significant decrease in the number of asylum applications in corona year 2020. There does not seem to be much change in this year. On 7 December last, the Commissioner-General of the CGVS stated during the exchange of views in committee that the number of requests made by minors had already risen to 1,463 during the first 10 months of this year, including 1,099 Afghans. To what do you attribute this trend, and in particular the fact that Belgium, in the European ranking, is particularly high in these statistics? Following the rising figures, Mr Van den Bulck recently stated that it was time to investigate this phenomenon. Can we expect anything concrete from you in this matter? It is no secret that it has become an economic model for many families to send children to Europe, for example, in order to be able to come across as part of family reunification. How do you intend to counteract this practice? It's basically child abuse. A non-essential factor in the popularity of this country for particularly Afghan minor asylum seekers would lie in the system of the Flemish growth package and the education allowance. Has this issue been discussed at an inter-ministerial conference or at another consultative body? If so, what was the result? If not, when will this issue finally be addressed? That seems pretty urgent, doesn't it? An additional problem is that there is often a serious difference between the given age and the actual age. About 70% of those presenting as minors appear to be of age after age study. In addition, up to last year, in only half of the cases, an age survey followed the doubts about the actual age of the applicants for asylum. Figures show that, in the event of doubt as to the age stated, an age study is not always carried out. What is the specific reason for this? Why is such an investigation not automatic in case of doubt? That seems appropriate. What possibilities do you see to carry out the number of age tests more consistently and more quickly? Have you received any commitments in this respect? If so, what does it mean in concrete terms and when can we expect concrete results from it? Observed abuse and deception should not be allowed to go unpunished. Otherwise, others will only be encouraged to take their chances and commit fraud and fraud. What sanctions do you consider possible to sanction this alleged abuse and deception? Finally, are you prepared to recover the costs of the age study from the self-declared minor asylum seeker in case of actual fraud, as is often the case?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic648x.u56	Mr President, Mr Van Langenhove, age research falls within the competence of the Voogdij Department, which is the responsibility of the Minister of Justice. I try to answer your questions as best I can, but for a number of questions I have to refer you to Minister Van Quickenborne. I understand that the question is also being asked to me, because we are responsible for the reception of unaccompanied minors and are therefore affected by the decisions of the Voogdij Service. This service has increased the number of age studies in recent months and weeks in order to significantly increase the number of age studies. We must continue to work on this and effectively ensure that these studies can be carried out sufficiently and, above all, quickly enough. Politicians must also take the right steps, but we are taking them together with Minister Van Quickenborne. There is not always an age study after expressing doubt. Minors sometimes disappear from the radar after expressing that doubt. Another reason is that additional information is available in the file. My cabinet is constantly in consultation with the Minister of Justice's cabinet, just as Fedasil and the Voogdij are constantly consulting. It looks at how processes can be accelerated and streamlined, but also at what changes to current legislation and practice would be useful. The statements of minors who turn out to be of majority age are therefore recorded in the file. The CGVS will examine the reasons for the application, including the false and fraudulent statements, and then take a decision on the asylum application in full independence. It is true that Belgium is a popular country for unaccompanied minors, in particular from Afghanistan. Various analyses have already been carried out to find out why Belgium is so popular. There is not one decisive reason for this, but there are several reasons. The role of the smuggler must not be underestimated. In many cases, the smugglers determine the route and the final destination. I am also in agreement with the Minister of Justice on this. Family reunification is only a right if someone has a right of residence in Belgium. Sometimes young people come to Europe for economic reasons. That's not always in the interests of those minors. It is often a heavy burden that rests on their shoulders. That is why it is important to invest in the region itself, so that young people do not feel the need to move to Europe or their families no longer encourage them to do so, which sometimes happens. Finally, you refer to the growth package as an attraction factor. In the meantime, that has already been done. In Flanders, Minister Beke will implement a reform of the growth package, which will make an adjustment for unaccompanied minors in the course of 2022. They will, like young people in Community institutions, receive only one third of the child benefit and not the full amount. This has not been the case so far. With regard to the school allowance, there is consultation with all services to see how it can be managed and used as effectively as possible, in the interest of the minor and not as an instrument to fund smugglers of human beings or to indicate that this is the way to move and try to make economic progress. In any case, I would also like to thank Minister Beke for the effort that has been made, because this will make a big difference to us too. I would also like to thank the Voogdij department for its efforts in the field of age studies. In this respect, we must try to be as ambitious as possible to ensure that real minors are included in structures for minors and that those who are not, do not have the opportunity to abuse the fact that an age study sometimes takes some time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic648x.u57	Mr Secretary of State, I certainly share your last remarks. I will certainly put further questions to Minister Van Quickenborne about the Voogdij service. After all, it is still not entirely clear to me why an investigation should not be carried out in cases where there is doubt as to the age of an applicant. You say that this is due to minor asylum seekers who disappear from the radar or because there are additional elements. Is that the explanation for all cases of doubt where an age study is not carried out or only for part of it?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic648x.u58	Well, basically, I have to check to be absolutely sure, so I don't say anything wrong. I suggest that you ask that question again and that I ask the cabinet to investigate it completely. In any case, however, everyone who is questioned, who needs to be examined and where there are no additional documents, needs to be tested. In that respect, I can only be clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic648x.u59	In any case, that sounds very good. I will put a brief supplementary question on this once you have been able to ask it. At least it sounds good already. With regard to the CGVS, to what extent are those lies taken into account? It is, of course, an independent body. When Mr Van den Bulck comes to the committee, I will not fail to ask that question. In any case, our group finds it very important for someone to commit fraud in this way and to lie to our services to obtain a right of residence here at the expense of others who may be more entitled to do so. You say that there are many reasons why more unaccompanied minors choose Belgium as their destination. Perhaps research is appropriate to determine precisely which reasons are decisive, which are the most important and which are the easiest to make it possible to reduce this phenomenon. With regard to the adjustment of the growth package and the school allowance, we can only welcome this. It turns out, after all, that it is only information used by smugglers of human beings to get unaccompanied minors to come to this country illegally. Thank you for the rest of the answers.
