ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic517x.u1	Colleagues, we will begin our work in the presence of Minister Lalieux, whom I thank.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic517x.u2	Madam President, Minister, the reform of the second pillar of the pension creates many questions and tensions. We no longer count the opinions: the Court of Auditors' report, the response, among other things, of the insurance sector, but also the reactions of the academic community, not to mention your first statements which did not help. The question therefore arises as to how to "restore trust" which is a phrase that you often use. Complementary pensions are very long-term policies that need stability and predictability. Breaking confidence is not acceptable, especially in the middle of the covid period. All this debate about supplementary pensions gives it "a negative image which, at best, ignores the reality of the self-employed, entrepreneurs and businesses", to quote an article in the Trends. Madam Minister, you said in the press that you wanted to better enforce the 80% rule. How do you see this in practice, especially after the interprofessional agreement? Are there any measures you would like to introduce to achieve this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic517x.u3	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have had the opportunity to respond to the question in plenary following the topical question raised by your colleague from the N-VA. I therefore reiterate this answer to you. As you know, we are working hard on a balanced pension reform as agreed in the government agreement. Pension reform affects many citizens and needs to be properly implemented. Any reform of this scale must be based on sound figures and analyses. Several recent reports from the Court of Auditors, the Federal Planning Office and the Pension Office clearly put their finger on the wound. All these options seem to me to have to be taken into account in the general discussion, which is a real societal debate. My objective, which is that of the whole government and of the social partners, is to achieve - and I repeat again - a second pillar that is generalised, more accessible and more equitable. Each of our fellow citizens is entitled to a pension that is as dignified as possible, first by means of a very comprehensive first pillar and then by means of a supplementary, accessible and fair pension. I have no doubt that everyone shares this view. Finally, I am pleased to hear from you, Mrs Marghem, about the restoration of trust, after a parliamentary term in which it was broken with the citizens and the social partners, since the workers had not stopped opposing each other - whether they were employees, self-employed or civil servants. As you know, we are moving towards the harmonisation of all pillars, so that everyone has the same rights. With regard to the IPA, I will of course respect the decision of the social partners to postpone harmonisation by five years. This request, which was expressed by employers, is not good for the workers, but if it is accepted by all the social partners, the government will respect the agreement, as it promised. As I announced to the government, a monitoring will be organised, so as to avoid a further postponement of the harmonization of supplementary pensions for workers in five years' time. Moreover, the tax and parafiscal standstill is provided for in the IPA. This will be respected, but - in agreement with my colleague Van Peteghem - we will have to fight excesses and enforce the law in force: the 80% and the Wijninckx ceiling, as provided for by the IPA. The government will therefore have to monitor compliance with these two criteria. Finally, with regard to supplementary pensions and pension reform, we will take into account the obvious inequalities between men and women in this area. I hope that everyone will share the view that women, too, must have a dignified life and a dignified supplementary pension. I am pleased that this will become a priority for everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic517x.u4	Madam Minister, you advocate a more accessible second pillar and seek the same rights for everyone, which is, of course, to be encouraged. Cooking, however, costs money and there the shoe pinches. After all, the government will have to look for funding to ensure the affordability of pensions and your plan. For us, however, it is and remains a bridge too far to seek that funding from people who have been able to save through their company for a supplementary pension. These are people who have worked for years and who have built up a bonus through the second pension pillar. It is the government itself that has lured the citizen to retirement savings with tax advantages. Those who have built up our prosperity should be able to enjoy their old age carefree. However, we still have to note that this is not the case in many cases. Madam Minister, if you will excuse me, I cannot get the impression that there is also a Community smell on the file on the second pillar of pensions. After all, people have built up the rights mainly in Flanders. A few months ago, I made some suggestions. If money is to be found to keep pensions affordable, it must not be sought from the good citizens, it must simply be put more people to work, including in Brussels and Wallonia. Do something about the average career time and save on other things that put heavy pressure on our social security.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic517x.u5	Madam Minister, first of all, I would like to mention some of the elements of this article in the Trends. I answer in this respect to your argument of opposition between the social classes that would have taken place during the crisis. This case concerning supplementary pensions, which gives an image derogating from the reality of the self-employed and entrepreneurs, is disastrous. Indeed, many self-employed people already have a lot of difficulty in recovering from the crisis, they who hoped to catch up, through the back-service, all the years during which they paid for the stone launcher. The 20 billion euros set aside during the co-vid by those who had the chance to keep their job, risk being invested in the brick, that is to say the most popular placement by thousands of middle class representatives who are waiting for a supplement for their low legal pension. Thirdly, the link between the state and its citizens is already very patchy in view of the much heavier burden of public sector pensions, while our elected representatives benefit from a very favourable pension scheme. I'm quoting the Trend article. It is therefore important for us, and I agree with you on this point, to respect the government agreement and the interprofessional agreement. I look forward to it and write it down. The government agreement provides for a generalization of the second pillar, which remains attractive for the self-employed, as I have just said. The supplementary pension scheme was designed precisely to allow for the creation of decent pensions because the rules of the first pillar did not allow it. Your colleague, Mr Vandenbroucke, is at the origin, as you know. Legal pensions and supplementary pensions should not be seen in opposition, but should strike a balance between distribution and funding systems. The first pillar reflects existing inequalities in the labour market, as you have pointed out, including wage inequalities between men and women. The first pillar allows for an equitable distribution of risks and burdens between generations and needs to be financially sustained over the long term. I imagine that's part of your concern. The second pillar operates on the principle of capitalisation. The person constitutes own capital on the basis of his or her personal contributions. We want to avoid the panic effects that all these ads and such articles generate. We therefore do not want you to continue to imply - and the interprofessional agreement has put an end to this - that the taxation of supplementary pensions serves as an instrument for tax optimisation. These are in fact incentives to ensure that more workers form a supplementary pension, allowing precisely the democratisation of the first pillar, as you are seeking to do. I come to the self-employed, many of whom resort to supplementary pensions because their legal pension is very low. The statutory staff of the civil service do not need to form a supplementary pension, given the appropriate replacement rate at the time of the pension. All this must be taken into account. It's very complex. I understand the difficulty of your task. However, we will be very vigilant to ensure that the tags marked in my reply are respected as part of your work and your future project.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic517x.u6	Madam President, Mrs Willaert, there is indeed a difference in the compensation scheme applicable in both systems. The aim is to identify these different arrangements. In 2019, the PUB2 project for the unique payment ensured the integration of the payment of pensions for the public sector into the system of payment of pensions for employees and self-employed persons. This resulted in pensions being paid at the same time and in the same way regardless of the scheme. Today there are still two systems for the recalculation of rights. On the one hand there is ApSoft for the public sector and on the other hand there is Theseos for the employees and the self-employed. This should ensure an exchange of information between the two systems in the event of an adjustment. As a result, there is always a period to adjust the various pensions. At least one month will pass with a mass adjustment. A manual intervention will expire for at least two months. The integration of pension calculation and control rules for the public sector is the final step in the PUB project. From that moment on, Theseos will be the only system that will perform the calculations. All rights are then adjusted at the same time. As a result, payments are immediately executed correctly and the creation of debt is avoided. In addition, better communication is also envisaged in the adjustment of one or more rights to the globally paid amount. In the future, the impact of a pension advantage on others will be immediately charged, so that fewer debts and arrears will be created. This problem will therefore be considerably reduced in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic517x.u7	Thank you, Madam Secretary. That's a perfect answer. That's the final piece that's still needed. It is very important that when one pension changes, the other is automatically adjusted and immediately included in the unique payment. I would also like to hear that this is well communicated to the people, so that if they see a difference somewhere, they immediately understand where this comes from. If this is coming, it's very good news.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic517x.u8	It is true that in 2019 the Belgian ombudsmen started cooperation with experience experts on the accessibility of services for people in poverty or those socially excluded. This project will continue this year as well. My policy, as laid down in the coalition agreement, focuses on a participatory approach, which clearly echoes the voice of people who know what it is to live in poverty. Of course, civil society has an important role to play in this. It seems to me that it is primarily up to the service itself to increase its awareness so that the referral by, for example, the OCMWs can be made as easily as possible. In addition, I will not fail to sensitise the OCMW's on the subject. Further consultations will be organized between my administration and the Pensions Office to determine how citizens can be helped in a complaint as efficiently as possible. Sometimes this is done by the FPD itself and only at a later stage by an ombudsdienst. There is no doubt, however, that I fully guarantee compliance with the social security charter.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic517x.u9	Thank you, Madam Secretary. That makes sense, too. The ombudsdienst is independent and has every interest in a good relationship with civil society and with the OCMW. It is good that you want to guarantee an intermediary role in this matter. That seems important to me. People like you and I can easily find our way if we have the impression that our rights are not being met, but that is much more difficult for people in poverty. Hence the good cooperation with those experienced experts, who are very rich, I think. I am pleased to hear that we are considering what further steps can be taken, in cooperation with the ombuds service, the Federal Pension Service, civil society and the OCMW. It seems very important to me to ensure that people who find their way less easily to assert their rights or to file complaints can, if necessary, end up in the ombudsmen's office.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic517x.u10	Madam President, Ms Willaert, on top of the structural revaluation of living wages, in order to bring it closer to the poverty line, the government agreement provides for additional funds for the OMCWs for additional financial support for families with insufficient income, based on their actual expenditure. These means are intended to enable the OMCWs to respond to the needs of the persons in an objective, relevant, uniform and harmonised manner, depending on their actual situation. To make available to all OMCWs of the system of reference budgets, a tendering procedure must of course be followed. Since this is a European tender, it will take some time. The budget will be distributed among the OMCWs according to a key that takes into account the level of poverty in each municipality. The REMI system in question, developed by CEBUD, is currently used in 27 OCMWs, only in Flanders. The instrument does not yet exist for Wallonia. The dossier will, of course, be discussed with the Federation of OMCWs and at the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic517x.u11	Madam Minister, I am pleased that you have referred to the increase in living wage payments, because this is going to make a substantial difference. That is the first thing we had to do, and we have done so. The advantage of additional support is indeed that it is based on people's income and may also go to people who work but earn too little. So it's not based on the type of income, it's based purely on income. That's very important. It is understandable, of course, that tendering takes some time, because we are bound by rules. I am also pleased that it will become a key on the basis of the level of poverty in the various municipalities. In Ghent we have been working with the REMI tool for some time and we know that some money went to the software when we started doing it. The parameters had to be adjusted. For us, it remains important to ensure that the budget allocated reaches the people as much as possible. I would therefore ask you to ensure that this budget goes to the people themselves as much as possible and to the software as little as possible. Of course, we need that software, but the balance in spending is important. I look forward to the follow-up because this is again something that can make a difference for people in poverty.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic517x.u12	We do not currently have any tools for Wallonia and Brussels, and we have yet to acquire them. I hope we will have results by the end of the year.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic517x.u13	If people can register through a uniform tool, it will, of course, be an incentive for the municipalities that still have to start. In Ghent we have been doing this for a long time with our own resources.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic517x.u14	I did see that in Ghent.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic517x.u15	I know you've been visiting us recently. It is important that local authorities consider what they can do if we already facilitate this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic517x.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Willaert. I'm asking for a minute's interruption. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish briefly to interrupt the oral questions. Indeed, we have just learned of the death of our colleague Marc Goblet. I think I can move forward, on behalf of the members of the committee, to pay a real tribute to our committee colleague. Of course, we recognize his unmistakable commitment and his struggle for the rights of workers throughout his life, whether within the union or here in this committee. I would like to greet his loved ones and family, and to say that he has brought many moments of exchange. Personally, as a young colleague of this Parliament, I will remember him for a long time; I wanted to point that out. I shall immediately give the floor to the minister, because she also wishes to speak on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic517x.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, I think we all agree with the President's words; I am not going to add any more. It is true that this is a shock for all of us, and a loss for Parliament, especially for the Socialist Group. Here I salute the 1,001 fights he has waged throughout his life, with conviction, and the values he carried. I hope we can carry them all with him. I pay tribute to him and extend my condolences to his family and loved ones.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic517x.u18	Thank you very much, Minister. Unfortunately, I have the heavy task of giving the floor to Mr De Jonge; it is not going to be easy in my opinion. Do you agree to continue the exchanges and ask your question?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic517x.u19	We are losing a great politician, and I, in turn, wish to express my condolences to the family and friends. I hope you'll all find the strength to cope with that heavy loss. If you think there's a need for a break, I have every respect for that. I'm scared, too. If it succeeds for the Minister, I will ask my question; but it is certainly a moment when we are all down.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic517x.u20	I can hear you, but I think he would have liked us to continue working together. There are important questions. Out of respect, I think we can try to keep working. If Members prefer not to ask their questions, I will always be at the disposal of Parliament, but I am prepared to continue to answer all your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic517x.u21	I'll leave it to Mrs. Thémont. It's about common questions. So, Mrs Thémont, if you'd like us to postpone this for a while, our block may be postponed. I don't have a problem with that. I'll leave you to it, or I'll ask my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic517x.u22	Thank you very much. It is true that I have been informed for a little while, but we were asked not to say anything. I came to committee. As Minister Karine said, I think Marc would have wanted us to continue working. I am not going to repeat the speeches that have been made. I must admit that I am a little lost, because he was still my bench colleague, with his qualities and his defects. But anyway, he taught me a lot. I'm a little disturbed, but I think we can go on. Tania, thank you so much for the request you just made.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic517x.u23	Thank you. We will therefore continue the work calmly this afternoon, in thought with the family and relatives of our esteemed colleague Goblet.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic517x.u24	The government agreement states that those who are not active in the labour market should be encouraged and assisted to take the step towards employment. These include not only persons with a living wage or persons who are long-term disabled or ill, but also persons with disabilities. They have a lot of talents and can add value to many companies through adapted work. That's often underestimated. I myself visited various tailor-made companies that carry out very specific tasks in support of large and small companies. I was impressed by what I saw. The thresholds should be removed for them and consultation with the Länder should take place. We also want to remove the financial thresholds. Have you discussed this with the Länder? What concrete steps have already been taken to encourage employment by people with disabilities? What steps will be taken in the future? How do you want to support companies to recruit people with disabilities? The government agreement also aims to support entrepreneurship among people with disabilities in order to facilitate the start of self-employment. Many thresholds have already been removed in this area and there is already good guidance on entrepreneurship. For example, in Flanders there is the association HAZO, which assists people with disabilities in developing their own business. There are many good examples, but we can even better encourage and support entrepreneurship under the government agreement from the federal government. The financial thresholds for self-employment could be reduced. Have any steps been taken in this respect? What steps are you planning to take on this important issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic517x.u25	Dear colleagues, in 2019, the CARPH produced a very sad evaluation report: 1, 22% of the employment rate of persons with disabilities in the public service. Moreover, this low rate was down due to the retirement of some workers, but also due to the decrease in the number of recruitments in the federal public service in general. Ever since I became a minister, I have dealt with the issue of the employment of people with disabilities. These people have many talents and with appropriate work or adapted circumstances they can offer added value in the labour market. Their potential is widely underestimated. Moreover, the inclusion of Article 22ter in the Constitution is an indispensable tool in this regard. This constitutional article thus emphasises the prohibition of refusing reasonable accommodation and allows for greater inclusion of workers in the world of work. Within the framework of the Federal Handicap Plan, an axis is dedicated to this issue. During its co-construction, in particular with ministers Petra De Sutter and Pierre-Yves Dermagne, a focus was made on the recruitment of persons with disabilities in the public service, as well as in private companies. If the public service is to be exemplary, we can encourage and be ambitious in the private sector as well. I will not fail to come back to you shortly to present the results of this work. Like Mrs De Jonge, I visited several ETAs (adapted work enterprises) that carry out very specific missions in support of large and small businesses. During these visits, the supervision and training of workers were often mentioned. It is for this reason that I hope to include these topics in the ICD before the end of the year. In addition, in order to avoid the inactivity trap, the government has decided to structurally reduce the negative impact of labour income on the amount of benefit. Some people with disabilities want and can perform a paid job. We must support them in this. Finally, it is essential to support entrepreneurship and enable these people to create and innovate. Moreover, this point is also developed in the federal disability plan. Discussions have already been held with Mr. David Clarinval's firm in order to establish our levers for action. In addition, it was initially agreed that experts and key people will be consulted on their vision of entrepreneurship. To this end, workshops will be held in order to have a good idea of the situation and to be able to develop appropriate measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic517x.u26	You also seem to take it as one of your main objectives to identify the talents that people have both for the labour market and for entrepreneurship. We have recently seen a very nice example of a boy with Down syndrome who was recruited by a company after an internship through the regular labour market. Indeed, thresholds can be removed in companies by allowing people with disabilities to enter jobs there. With the necessary capacities and talents, they can participate perfectly in the regular work circuit. In addition, Flanders has no less than 20,000 entrepreneurs who have started a business despite their limitation or chronic illness. We certainly need to strengthen such good results by also taking initiatives at federal level. Thank you for your answer and your enthusiasm for working on that issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic517x.u27	Minister, thank you for your answers. Workstation adjustments and the adaptability of computer tools to the tasks performed are important avenues for increasing the attractiveness of the public service to maintain employment. Awareness-raising activities should also be strengthened. I am glad to hear you say that workshops will be held which include appropriate measures. You are attentive and sensitive to this problem, and I congratulate you. I will not fail to return to you in due course.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic517x.u28	Madam Minister, I would like to say a word of support on behalf of my group. An hour before this meeting, I received the bad news that Mr Goblet has passed away, which touches us deeply. We have come to know Mr Goblet as a great politician, but I have known him for years as a trade union leader and I have always looked up to him. He sat in Parliament and was my buddy there. My support goes out to his family and friends and to the PS. You lose a very big politician and the working class loses a very big union leader. I would also like to refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic517x.u29	Mr Colebunders, the consequences of the crisis are indeed disastrous. More and more people need to ask for help from the OCMW, many even for the first time in their lives. The increase is particularly striking in the area of supplementary social aid. For example, there are two thirds more food aid applications, half more for financial aid and over a quarter more for debt mediation. The number of beneficiaries increased by more than a third, from around 160,000 in January 2020 to around 215,000 in December 2020. The government has therefore decided to extend certain social emergency measures. In my case, it concerns the 50 euro premium, the expansion of the GPMI (individualised project for social integration) and the increased reimbursement to the OMCWs. The legislative proposal to extend these measures until the end of September will be submitted to Parliament shortly. I am, of course, preparing for the situation after 13 September. Emergency measures must not be stopped abruptly. I'm already thinking about possible alternatives. The Federal Poverty Plan which I would like to propose to the government in the coming weeks will also include structural measures. The Socialists have, as you know, advocated in the government the extension of the premium to other groups. Unfortunately, there was no agreement on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic517x.u30	Madam Minister, we may be at the end of the epidemic, but poverty has not yet been eradicated in our Belgian country. It's only gonna get worse. We also note that all poverty groups are pulling the brakes. We really do need drastic measures. I am sure that, when the health crisis is over, poverty will still remain. I also called the alarm bell yesterday in the city council of Genk. I heard numbers that scared the shit out of me yesterday. When I hear your figures today, it worries me very much. You will indeed find a partner in us, but we will continue to raise the alarm very loudly. We certainly have not seen the last of poverty.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic517x.u31	Madam President, Madam Minister, when the Federal Pension Service (FPD) wrongly paid a pension amount to a retired person, the question arises as to how the FPD should recover this amount. Is this limited to the net amount actually received by the pensioner or does the pensioner have to repay the taxable gross amount? In other words, it is therefore necessary to repay the company tax that was not received from the FPD. The FPD usually opts for a recovery of the taxable gross amount. This usually means that the pensioner has to repay a higher amount to the FPD than the amount he initially received. That's not consistent with the IRS circular. According to this circular, until 31 July of the year following the undue payment, the FPD can recover only the net pension amount. The Pensions Ombudsdienst calls on the FPD to align the recovery practice with the tax regularisation procedure as set out in the circular. Do you follow this interpretation of the Pension Office? If this way of working is not in line with the IRS circular, how come the FPD usually opts for a recovery of this gross amount?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic517x.u32	Madam President, Mr Colebunders, Mrs Leroy asked exactly the same question at the previous sitting. I therefore refer you to the report for the full answer. You can rest assured that we know the problem. The refund of the net amount can already be requested manually and the FPD will examine whether this can also be done automatically.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic517x.u33	Madam Minister, it seems natural to me that this should be done automatically. I follow the Ombudsdienst Pensions and expect the normal rules of the IRS to be followed. That goes without saying. These people are already having a hard time. It does not seem to me any longer at this time that they have to pay back more than what they have actually received and then recover that amount two years later. It can be solved very easily. Where there's a will, there's a way.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic517x.u34	Minister, I refer to the written text of my question. It is relatively explicit that there would be further difficulties in accessing DG Han.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic517x.u35	Madam Chair, I heard your question raising the issue of the concurrent inaccessibility of the MyHandicap site and the 0800 line. As you know, this 4th of May, the Belnet network was the target of an unprecedented attack. This hacking has hit DG HAN's computer system, which is highly dependent on this service. As a result, MyHandicap and telephony were rendered inaccessible during part of the day. However, I must point out that an event of this magnitude is - fortunately - rare. In addition, I can imagine that the perception of this inaccessibility was aggravated by the proximity of the weekend of May 1 and the simultaneousity of this event with the day of payment of the allowances in May. This sequence of circumstances had the effect that the number of people wishing to call us was particularly high on that date. Moreover, it is true that on 25 May last the 0800 number was no longer accessible part of the morning. This time, the problem came from Proximus, the line manager. Such an incident is occasional. I would like to reassure you that the last one of its kind dates back to the beginning of the crisis in March 2020. However, I would like to point out that, apart from those days, 99 per cent of the appellants were able to reach us.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic517x.u36	Minister, I am pleased to see that these are more specific incidents. Many people who need to use these communication tools are traumatized from the moment it doesn't work. We come back from periods when these problems have arisen repeatedly and almost structurally. So whether these are mere incidents is good news. I'm going to relay this information to those who were worried about it. Similarly, I am reassured to learn that it is not computer migration that would cause these inconveniences.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic517x.u37	The AMI contribution applies only to pensions which exceed the threshold of EUR 1,597. For the assessment of this threshold, the supplementary pension capital is converted into a fictitious pension. If the total pension exceeds the threshold, the MAI contribution is due. However, the AMI contribution deducted by the SFP from the statutory pension is calculated only on the statutory pension and not on the fictitious pension. Indeed, the AMI contribution has already been deducted at the source of the supplementary pension capital. It is therefore not true that there would be a general problem of double AMI deduction on pension capital. We do it in a fictitious way from the beginning on capital. However, the Ombudsman for Pensions has recently pointed out a very specific problem that a limited number of people are facing. This problem is summed up by the fact that for the assessment of the threshold amount, below which the pension cannot be reduced following the application of the AMI contribution, only the AMI contribution deducted from the statutory pension is taken into account, but not the contribution deducted at the source of the supplementary pension capital. It's complex. Although an investigation by the Ombudsman shows that the impact is quite limited, I am prepared to address this issue. As I announced earlier in this committee, the calculation of the AMI contribution and the solidarity contribution involves a number of injustices, including threshold effects, as reported. I will propose solutions to this in the context of pension reform. As you also know, the social partners have also expressed their views on this issue in the context of the IPA 2021-2022. The reforms that I propose will of course take account of the social agreement. There are different possibilities to work on the AMI contribution and the solidarity contribution. As I said in the context of pension reform, the social partners do not approach matters in the same way. We will have a discussion about the best way to do this, but we will of course be carrying out this reform during this Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic517x.u38	Madam Minister, I note two things: firstly, it is in the best interest to put questions of this kind in writing, because I will reread what you have just said at rest. Thank you very much; then I hear that this will be part of the proposals contained in the pension reform. So I'll wait a little while. We will see a lot of each other in the context of this pension reform. I hope everyone will be ready because there will be a lot of topics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic517x.u39	Madam President, I would like to begin by expressing my condolences on the loss of Mr Goblet. Until the end, he has worked for his political conviction. That's admirable. I would also like to refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic517x.u40	In order to better inform citizens about the potential impact of study regulation on pensions, a simulation tool was developed on the website mypension.be during the previous reign. This allows the citizen himself to map the impact of purchasing years of study on the pension. Until March 2021, citizens could enter their own pension dates for which they wanted to calculate this. At present, we offer citizens a standard estimate at the earliest possible and legal retirement date. In addition, the citizen can make the same calculation for another pension date. These standard estimates take into account the shifting of the statutory retirement age to 66 and 67 years. The manual estimates made by the Federal Pension Service in the context of study regularisation also take into account the shift from retirement age to 66 and 67 years, both for the pension built up in the employee system and in the civil service system. However, for the estimates of the civil servants' pension, in practice only the calculation is communicated by default at the earliest possible date of retirement. It should be noted that the earliest possible retirement date may correspond to the statutory retirement age if the citizen does not meet the conditions for early retirement. As you yourself point out in your question, the citizen may receive an additional estimate on request on the date of his retirement. Finally, you refer to the achievement of the relative ceiling in the calculation of civil servants' pensions. This is 540 months' service to the Tantième sixty-one, and 495 months' service to the Tantième fifty-five, 450 months' service to the Tantième fifty-one. I can also give you the figures on paper. The attainment of the relative ceiling is independent of the statutory retirement age, but relates to the duration of the career. It goes without saying that if a person has reached the relative ceiling at the age of 65, he has, of course, reached it at the age of 66 or 67. I therefore believe that the citizens had all the means at their disposal to properly inform themselves about the impact and thus to weigh the benefit of possible study regularisation. So I will not go into your request to have these files reviewed by the Federal Pension Service.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic517x.u41	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. It is a little unfortunate that you do not have this reviewed, because I believe that there are still people in ignorance about the impact that regularisation would have had on their pension. There are still some gaps in the calculation. I will read your answer carefully, and if I have any further questions afterwards, I will ask you an additional question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic517x.u42	Madam President, on behalf of our group, I would like to express my deepest sympathy to the PS Group so that they can also convey our condolences to Mr Goblet's family. Of course, I would also like to express my deepest sympathy for the whole committee. We have all known Mr Goblet as a hard worker. We may not have been on the same page all the time, but we have been on the same page in politics. He was someone who went for his ideals until the last moment. It's just an act of admiration. Madam Minister, since it is not obvious to go back to the order of the day, I would prefer to refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic517x.u43	Madam President, Ms Lanjri, the Management Committee of the Federal Pension Service examined the situations cited and delivered a divided opinion at the meeting of 31 May 2021. At the request of the chairman of the management committee, the administration has developed two runs. The first track, followed by employers, provides for an extension of the current exemption to the application of flat-rate wages for 1967. This enlargement does not include the specific situation cited by the Member of Parliament, in which someone engages in a self-employed activity from time credits. The second track, followed by the workers' organisations, is wider and provides for the deletion of the current derogation and the introduction of an additional basis for determining the fictitious wage. This new calculation basis covers a much wider number of cases and also addresses the situation in the case of time-credit. My cabinet is currently analysing the impact of the different options and examining what action we can take on this advice.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic517x.u44	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I am pleased that the Pension Service Management Committee has finally delivered an opinion on an issue that I raised in January, even if it is a divided opinion. That is a pity, but perhaps your cabinet, when it studies the slopes and makes the decisions, can eventually convince all partners. I believe it is necessary for people who were not unemployed but who have taken up this time-credit to be able to make use of this exception in one way or another. If that is possible by the second track, by creating a new base that will reach a larger group, then I think that is absolutely necessary. We have always seen the time-credit in our regulations more as a form of interruption of work. In other cases, such as the pension calculation, this has always been treated as a pension. I think it is important that we look at this more comprehensively now. I hope that you will continue to study that slope and that you will be able to make that choice. Madam Secretary, I just wonder how you will keep me informed. You can let me know in writing via the secretariat of the committee or directly by e-mail the final choice. If I do not know that soon, I will have to ask you another question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic517x.u45	Madam President, on behalf of my group, I would also like to join in expressing my condolences to the PS Group and to the family for the death of Mr Goblet. Madam Minister, in the fight against menstrual poverty, at the end of last year you released EUR 200,000 that can be deployed until December 2021. It is 100,000 euros for the Conseil des Femmes Francophones de Belgique and 100,000 euros for the Women's Council. These two organisations were commissioned to support projects that break the taboo of menstrual poverty and distribute menstrual products free of charge to vulnerable target groups. They do. With this amount, the Women's Council finances 15 projects, ranging from sensitisation through poster campaigns, TikTok and conversations with students to the distribution of free menstrual products in secondary schools. However, for some projects the deadline of 15 December is not feasible. Another task for these organisations is to make an evaluation of the projects. After all, it is important to be able to assess where the needs lie, what these needs are and what the cost is. Scientific support is crucial to correctly analyse and interpret the results of pilot projects. For this, these two organisations would need an additional budget of about EUR 50,000. Madam Minister, are you prepared to extend the deadline for the implementation of the funds for the projects until the end of March 2022? Are you willing to provide additional funding to scientifically support the projects started? I am also very interested in the outcome of the Inter-Ministerial Conference of 11 June 2021 on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic517x.u46	Minister, on average, women spend between €1,500 and €2,000 on sanitary protection. Some girls and women still do not have the means to buy these protections, which has important consequences in their working or school life. We are therefore obviously pleased to see the initiatives that have just been taken at the Interministerial Conference on Women's Rights. The federal government and the federated entities have committed themselves to setting up pilot projects to enhance access to periodic protections. Madam Minister, we know how attentive you are to this issue, and your initiative at the end of 2020 to release €200,000 to support the actions of the Conseil des femmes francophones and Vrouwenraad is proof of this. Could you tell us a little more about the projects envisaged or carried out with the grant? Are additional initiatives being considered today, particularly in the context of the decisions taken at the Interministerial Conference on Women's Rights?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic517x.u47	I remain committed to this matter, and the subsidies that I have released are the first step in doing so. This is primarily a question of public health. So you could also ask Mr Vandenbroucke that question. However, it is also an issue of equality and that is why I immediately took action. Not everyone has access to menstrual products, and especially women who live in poverty do not. In addition to the specific allowance, I have also decided to have these products, as well as diapers, distributed structurally through food aid. This is 1.3 million euros for 450 000 disposable towels, 550 000 tampons and 300 000 reusable towels. This is essential and essential in order to guarantee the dignity of these women: it is not a question of coquetry. Finally, CPAS can with the subsidy covid – complementary help, support women in need. Some have taken initiatives in this direction, both north and south of the country. My firm maintains regular contacts with the French-speaking Women's Council of Belgium (CFFB) and Vrouwenraad, who each received 100,000 euros, to carry out pilot projects – outside the 1.3 million budget. The desirability of a possible extension is being analysed, but the entire budget is to be spent in 2021. I will not describe one by one the projects put in place. Please be aware that 15 projects have been selected from the Vrouwenraad side and that the CFFB works with three major cities (Liège, Namur and Charleroi). The two organisations work together for Brussels. The two targets are the school audience and the underprivileged public. In the programme: awareness and prevention, collection and distribution, communication. A report will be sent to the PPS no later than February 28, 2022. A state of play will be communicated to us by the end of July by the two organizations. With regard to the request for scientific evaluation, no additional budget is foreseen. This was initially a request from the Vrouwenraad addressed to the Flemish Government, which remained unanswered. I encourage all the ministers concerned to get involved in this matter. This is the purpose of the Precarity Menstrual Working Group that I co-chaired at the ICD Women's Rights meeting on 11 June. Like the subsidy granted to the two above-mentioned organisations, the Ministers undertake to develop pilot projects. I suggest that you follow up the press release sent following the ICD. This will be communicated to you by the secretariat of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic517x.u48	Madam Minister, we have put the question to you because you are responsible for combating poverty. We're glad you're taking action. The organisations have indicated that it would be nice if the deadline would be extended. I think it would be a good idea to think about that. They are indeed looking for funding to scientifically support this. They have contacts with universities and colleges of applied sciences. People are willing to do that investigation. However, the financial resources are lacking at the moment. Maybe there's something possible at the end of the year. That is why I am asking you to think about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic517x.u49	Madam Minister, I have already said that I welcome the fact that you have made EUR 200,000 available to support projects against menstrual poverty. That's very positive. It is also a good thing that the women's councils should be given freedom to develop the various initiatives in this country. An evaluation is too early, you say, and you expect it by February. That's a good thing. In the meantime, I hope that we will be able to look with the OCMWs at how they can provide support in tackling menstrual poverty. It is really important for local authorities to be involved because they, in turn, support organisations in the field that actually work with people in poverty. You also refer to your colleague from Health, but in my view this is not really a health problem. Menstrung is not a disease, it is quite normal, but poverty is an important factor. If people have too few hygienics or menstrual products, this can lead to problems and diseases. I hope that, above all, we will be able to deal with this preventively. A woman's menstrual cycle must not be taboo. The fact that women do not participate in school activities or get out or stay away from work because they do not have menstrual products is a mockery to the woman himself. Thank you for the initiative. I'm sure we'll follow up on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic517x.u50	Madam President, Minister, I know that the dossier is very close to your heart. It is good to hear that additional resources are being released. After all, Caritas Vlaanderen's figures are pressing us with the nose on the facts. 12% of Flemish women and girls between 12 and 25 years old already have insufficient money to buy menstrual products, which is hallucinating. There is indeed a taboo on it. Especially in view of the current covid crisis, it is not financially easy for many young girls and women. Unless I am mistaken, however, I did not receive an answer to two questions I asked you. On the basis of which allocation elements is the contribution granted to those two associations? Do they need to provide a working report to your services in order to indicate what they have effectively done with those funds? Can we possibly obtain a report? I would also like to put these questions back in writing, if that is in your best interest.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic517x.u51	[[...]] [[No microphone.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic517x.u52	Normally the minister should give Ms.Samyn some clarification, but the minister's microphone was not connected.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic517x.u53	Each grant passes through the Treasury Inspection and comes into the budget. There was no comment on the second grant for the second umbrella organisation for women.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic517x.u54	Thank you for the full answer, Minister. It is true that you were the first to release €200,000 to support actions in the area of menstrual precariousness. I congratulate you. Additional funds will also be released to promote different projects. I think this is about fighting inequality, but also about precariousness. It is also about providing better access to health. I have met with several training and reintegration associations who say that in the field, some girls use simple wipes to continue their training. By 2021, this should not happen and lifting the taboo on the rules should be one of the priorities. I therefore congratulate you on all the steps you have already taken in this area, as well as on those that will follow.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic517x.u55	Madam President, Madam Minister, in various countries, such as Italy or the United States, synergy between the public and private sectors makes it possible to integrate people with autism spectrum disorder. Real tailored life paths are created: the physical, psychological and social specificities of autistic people are recognized, and tasks are adapted to their individual characteristics. Evaluations of their progress are carried out on a regular basis, and assistance by qualified professionals is maintained along the way in order to promote effective integration and personal development. Minister, in view of your commitment to developing a more inclusive approach for people with disabilities, and to fighting the poverty of this target group, how do you plan to support projects that promote the integration of autistic people into workplaces that enhance their autonomy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic517x.u56	Madam Member, I share your opinion on the need to devote more effort to promoting an inclusive work environment for all and for all, including those with autism spectrum disorder. You rightly refer here to experiences in foreign countries where synergy between the public and private sectors makes it possible to integrate people with autism spectrum disorders. In this respect, it is interesting to know that we also have innovative projects in our country, such as the Passwerk association, inspired by the examples that have proved their worth in Denmark and the Netherlands. The Belgian Passwerk model offers the qualities of people with an autistic spectrum profile for testing and software development. Collaborations within DG People with Disabilities with this association are already in place and thus enable these people to harness their specific talents in the service of the community. However, it must be admitted that this is not enough. There is a need to further stimulate the development of such initiatives. In fact, as far as the federal government is concerned, we can contribute to this by acting on the various levers at our disposal. I am thinking in particular of the social clauses in public procurement, which aim to help the training or socio-occupational integration of vulnerable publics, including persons with disabilities. I am also thinking of the system of allowances, for which I am responsible, to allow the combination of an allowance and an occupational income. This is in practice the increase in the reduction in income from work in terms of integration allowances, known as "labour prices". I've been fighting for a few months to reduce its impact. Finally, I would like to stress the importance of a cross-cutting approach to the inclusion of persons with disabilities, including persons with autism. To this end, I am currently working with my colleagues on the development of the federal action plan for this more vulnerable public, in which we identify actions across the government's jurisdictions. The Government will adopt this plan by 21 July. I hope so and, at least, I'm ready.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic517x.u57	Thank you to the Minister for this very comprehensive response, which includes a vision and projects on the table. While autism presents some difficulties to take into account, its particularities are also an asset for certain activities. As you said: with training, support and also a suitable working environment, autistic people can better integrate into society while taking advantage of their exceptional skills. I mean, you're going to stimulate initiatives and you're going to have a cross-cutting approach and an action plan. I will come back to you to find out the status of this issue, which is of interest to you as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic517x.u58	Question No 55018840C by Valerie Van Peel is transformed into a written question. Question No 55018844C by Mrs Ellen Samyn is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic517x.u59	Ms Lanjri, in May 2021 there were 464 862 parking tickets in circulation, of which 94.8 % were valid indefinitely. The parking tickets are awarded by DG Han, but the reserved places are not federal, but a local authority. The DG Han therefore has no information on this matter. The parking card is very important for people with reduced mobility. During my term of office, I want to tackle fraud and abuse and also ensure that the cards are distributed fairly, easily and quickly. The situation has hardly changed for more than 20 years. I therefore think it is necessary to listen to the users of the parking card and the organisation in order to see how we can modernise the system. As regards the number of parking tickets issued over the last five years, I suggest that you submit this question in writing. It will be easier and easier to understand the answer in a table.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic517x.u60	Madam Minister, as far as the figures are concerned, I will repeat my question in writing. However, I can tell you that in 2015 390,000 parking tickets were in circulation and that this was already 466.353 in 2019. That is an increase of no less than 70,000 pieces in four years, which is huge. Of course, we think it is important that people with disabilities can get a parking card but we also see a huge increase in the number of parking tickets. This is mainly due to the ageing population. People who become older and less mobile soon get a note from their doctor asking for a parking ticket. The number of reserved places increases in most municipalities, but not to the extent that it increases by a third. In the long term, disabled people, such as wheelchair users, will no longer find a parking space, as older people who may have moved slower have obtained a parking card and taken the specific parking spaces. Someone with a disability needs that parking lot a lot more. That is why I am asking for a solution to be found. I hope you'll think about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic517x.u61	Mrs Lanjri, we have already discussed this issue in a previous sitting. I have just answered a question from Mrs van Peel on the European Disability Card (EDC). The tender is in progress. By the end of this year, we want to launch a new website that is more accessible and attractive. We also intend to set up a communication campaign to make the map better known. In the meantime, we are also examining the possibility of improving the administrative management of the card. I can also tell you that the promotional material can be downloaded on the EDC website. By working together, we can reach a wider audience. It is therefore clear that the VVSG and the APW should be involved in the promotion of the EDC. In fact, you know that the Länder are important partners in this area. I therefore want to restore the dialogue that has stopped since 2019. Contacts have already been established for this purpose.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic517x.u62	Madam Minister, I asked a follow-up question because I had received the answer last time that there would be a tender. I didn't know what was going on. In the meantime, I've also been in contact with the VVSG. They absolutely want to contribute to the dissemination of the EDC, but they had not received any questions from the current government so far. I'm glad you're planning on working together. If my question has contributed to the restoration of contact with the VVSG and the APW, then that is a good thing. Only 14% of people with disabilities have an EDC today. That's far too little. We need to make sure everyone gets an EDC. 14 % is very little. That's 95,000 out of nearly 700,000 people with disabilities. We still have a lot of work to do. Thank you for your efforts.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic517x.u63	Our group would like to express our condolences in advance to the families of Mr Goblet's family. 64 years is still far too young. The man was very respected throughout the country for his ideals, which were not always mine. As a socialist at heart, he has stood for his ideals on the barricades. His short passage on this world will certainly not have passed unnoticed. That might be a lean comfort to his family after all. That said, I am very curious about the preparatory work and the progress of your pension reform. September isn't that far off, less than three months, and I don't hear much. You don't show me in your cards either; I'll try again. What's started in the meantime? The Ipa agreement is here. You hid a little behind that. In other words, have the social partners started working in the meantime? Did that social consultation start? Do you have a better view of the wishes and/or vetos of the social partners? In addition to the social partners, there are other people who can and even have to intervene in the dossier with knowledge. Have you put experts to work? If so, who? What specific questions did you ask them? Have you already set a specific date on which you will come to Parliament with your pension reform?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic517x.u64	The pension reform is an important axis of my policy and I take its preparation very seriously. This also means that I do not want to anticipate matters at the moment. We are working in silence and with full focus so that in autumn we can propose a detailed plan to Parliament in accordance with the principles set out in the coalition agreement. The concrete date for this will be determined jointly with the government and Parliament. It goes without saying that we have already had a series of informal contacts and consultations with experts and social partners in the preparatory work. Of course, we take into account the comments, suggestions and insights we have gathered here, in our further work.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic517x.u65	I could only try, Madam Secretary. Thank you for your answer. I realise, of course, that you are working behind the scenes on that very important dossier. We can always make suggestions, if you ask, of course. From the questions I have already put to you in the course of this legislature, you can undoubtedly draw some ideas, so that pension reform becomes a good reform, in the interests of our pensioners, but of course also of those who are still at work, because they will have to bear a large part of the costs in the light of the redistribution system. Anyway, I look forward to it. You're talking about autumn, I see. What's that? October? We'll see. I attended a webinar by Mrs. Marjan Maes yesterday. I hope she is one of the experts you will hear, because she is a professor specializing in pensions and pension reform, and she had some very interesting ideas, which you will hopefully include in the reform. I'll keep chasing you, of course.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic517x.u66	Madam President, Minister, I had asked this question more or less in the context of the budget. I robbed you with that. Maybe you've had a little more time to check that out in the meantime. The EUR 1 billion you have adjusted in the expenditure estimates, as you said at the time, is linked to the additional mortality of pensioners as a result of corona. It's a little cynical to say that. Have you examined in detail the relationship between pension expenditure and over-death due to corona in the run-up to the last budgetary adjustment? Can you confirm that the budgetary adjustment of pensions is partly due to the coronas victims? Do you also have excess mortality rates by age group? Was the absence of flu also taken into account under-mortality? Apparently, the flu has disappeared without a trace, which, of course, is a good thing. After the death penalty, there is, logically, also, in general, a period of under-mortality. Was this already taken into account in the volume adjustments 2021? I hope that you have had a little more time to answer those questions and that I can get a more concrete answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic517x.u67	Madam President, Mr Van der Donkt, the demographic outlook 2020-2070 published by the Federal Planning Bureau on 19 January 2021 shows the great impact of the covid crisis. For Belgium, the overall mortality rate is estimated at 16,000 in 2020. The Federal Pension Service has examined the excess mortality rate in the context of the preparation of the 2021 adjusted budget. It is clear that the adjustment of the pension budget is partly related to the impact of covid. Of all people receiving at least one benefit from the FPD, there were 140.001 deaths in 2020. That's 16.753 more than in 2019. The over-death rate is mainly among the elderly. The estimate of the number of beneficiaries in the initial budget was therefore too high. However, the budgetary control figures are based on the actual number of beneficiaries on 1 January 2021. The excess mortality taken into account does not take into account the cause of death. So there is covid, but there are also flu and heat waves, for example. Let us be clear, however, the excess mortality from covid has no impact on the underlying demographic developments such as the ageing of the population in the medium or long term.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic517x.u68	Thank you, Minister, I have no further comments. Your answer was pretty clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic517x.u69	It has also been mentioned in the budget. Mr Colebunders has been listening carefully all afternoon because he is interested in the answer to this question. This file is very close to his heart. The adjusted expenditure estimate on employee pensions is falling by 2% compared to the initial budget. This is due, among other things, to the revision of expenditure on the payment of arrears to miners, as they were partly taken into account in 2020. This amounts to EUR 56.9 million. Madam Minister, could you give me a more specific explanation of the EUR 56.9 million revision? What is the total cost of this operation? What was charged when, respectively, in 2020 and 2021? Is this partial shift towards 2020 due to faster handling of the files or is there another reason?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic517x.u70	Mr Van der Donkt, the budget estimate initially made by the Federal Pension Service in respect of the Law of 15 June 2020 was based on the assumption that the revision of the files by the FPD would start in 2021. I have a lot of figures, Mr Van der Donkt. Do you want it now or rather in a written reply?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic517x.u71	Madam Minister, I will take the written version of your reply with me and deliver it to Mr Colebunders. As far as I am concerned, the figures can also be included in the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic517x.u72	Like I said, it's a lot of numbers. The annual additional cost was estimated at 19.4 million euros and the impact of retroactivity over 10 years at 189.9 million euros. Therefore, the initial budget for 2021 provided for the total amount of EUR 209.3 million. The FPD can start processing the files of underground miners by the end of 2020. At the beginning of 2021, at the request of the FOD BOSA, the FPD informed it that 30% of the file had been processed in 2020. The assumption that 30% of the retroactive effect had already been paid in 2020 was taken over during budgetary control 2021, i.e. 30 % of EUR 189.9 million, i.e. almost EUR 57 million. As a result, the originally planned amount for 2021 has been reduced from EUR 209.3 million to EUR 152.4 million. On the basis of the information provided by the end of May, total expenditure over the period 2020-2021 is estimated at EUR 232,9 million, i.e. an overrun of the initial estimate of 23,6 million. Expenditure amounted to 83.1 million euros in 2020. For 2021, the amount to be paid would be EUR 149.8 million, while the budgeted amount under budgetary control for 2021 would be EUR 152.4 million. This amount of EUR 149.8 million is the estimate of June 2021 and should therefore be confirmed at a later date. So it's a lot of money.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic517x.u73	Madam Secretary, it was a lot of numbers, too, and I'm gonna have to let them settle down for a while. Thank you very much for the comprehensive answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic517x.u74	Madam President, first of all I would like to thank Mr Van der Donkt for sharing these figures with us. It's a lot of money, but it's on the right side. I come to my question. I had already asked general questions on the problem of poverty, but I still have some specific questions on support for the OMCWs. Experts point out that, as in the economic crisis in 2008, we can expect a lot of new applications for living wages in the wake of the health crisis. Social services run from a distance and the socio-economic impact of the corona crisis is piercing with delay. It is therefore important for OMCWs to be able to prepare for this as much as possible. Is the number of monthly living wages still increasing effectively? Are there more applications adopted by the end of May 2021 than at the same time in 2020 and 2019? If yes, what is the effective growth rate? Where are most of the living wages currently requested? When and on the basis of what criteria do you decide on the extension of the federal allowance for the OMCWs? You just mentioned some of it. For what period will you allow a possible new extension and will you lift that extension over the end of the year?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic517x.u75	I will not go into detail about the figures. I suggest that you put a written question to that effect. It's easier. The number of life labourers has indeed increased, even in the first three months of 2021. I agree with you that the social consequences of the crisis will continue to be felt for a long time. That's what we saw with the 2008 crisis. The greatest impact on social assistance was observed in 2009 and 2010, when the number of wage-earners increased by 9.8%. There are no specific criteria for the increased reimbursement. Each OMCW benefits from this. The government has approved a preliminary draft law to extend the measure until the end of September. We will also propose structural measures in the plan against poverty and social inequality, which I would like to present to the government shortly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic517x.u76	Of course, I had hoped for these figures, because it is very important that we have them. I don't know why I wouldn't get them like this. Are those figures so bad that they're afraid to make them known? I hope, of course, that this is not the case. We will certainly have to work on a structural approach, because the OCMWs will no longer be able to process the applications. I realize that we will feel the social consequences for a long time to come. That is why I repeat my question: What will happen in 2022?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic517x.u77	Madam Minister, the MIRIAM project focuses on addressing poverty and social isolation of single parents through the OMCWs. The project is based on a holistic, integrated approach and aims to focus on empowerment and targeted actions on work, income, social services and so on. The Women's Council recently published its Signalsnota project MIRIAM and COVID-19 on this subject, including the impact of the corona crisis on the target group of this project. In your policy paper, you refer to the MIRIAM project and to a third project round currently running in six OCMWs. You also indicate that you want to examine how the orientation of the single parent can be anchored in a more structural way. Madam Minister, do you see a solution in the scale-up of the MIRIAM project with regard to structural anchoring? How much would it cost to scale up this project? Is there any provision for this? At what time do you consider it possible to achieve such a scaling-up? Do you see any other slopes to tackle the problem of poverty in single-parent families? What elements of the signal note do you take into account in your considerations on this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic517x.u78	Colleague, single-parent families are at greater risk of poverty and therefore deserve all our attention. More than 80% of single parents are women. It is particularly difficult for these women to combine work and family life and to keep their heads above water without the father's support. That is why I pay particular attention to this target group in a new plan against poverty and social inequality to support these mothers and their children. The pilot project MIRIAM launched in 2016 and its commitment to better guidance has proved its worth. However, its impact remains limited, as it amounted to a maximum of 15 women per participating OCMW per edition. That brings us to 90 women today for a budget of 435.000 euros. I want to make this project structural and involve more OCMWs and more women. That's why I ordered the POD to develop scenarios for MIRIAM 4.0. The POD has already consulted with the Women's Council on the possible slopes. The POD committed itself in the first half of this year to extending MIRIAM 3.0, taking into account the crisis. In this context, the Women's Council note highlights the difficult conditions for mothers and OMCWs. This edition runs until the end of December. My intention is to launch MIRIAM 4.0 in 2022.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic517x.u79	Your intention to scale up the project to reach more women is good news. Ghent was in the first round at the time and achieved good results, but indeed only for a limited number of women. Your intention to see how it can be achieved for more women is beautiful. I notice that you are putting everything in place for that, with the consultation with the PPS and the Women's Council and the perspective of 2022 that you can already give. I am curious to see the future modalities around that. You are referring to your new plan on poverty and social inequality. Is that also supposed to be proposed in the Chamber? This has happened in the previous legislature, but now it is not clear to me what the intention is.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic517x.u80	It is proposed first in the Council of Ministers, which is mandatory. Then I want to talk to the people on the ground and the various administrations. The first step is the framework of the plan, as for the Handiplan. That step will be completed before the holiday. I can discuss the plan here in committee. The second step is the final plan of concrete action in October.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic517x.u81	Madam President, on 4 May 2021, a webinar was held on the Action Plan on Automatic Granting of Rights. A report has been presented which rightly states that the answers to the problem that rightholders do not recognise their rights are multiple and require a transversal approach. A working group was set up in August 2019 to improve access to the various social protection systems. We know that you want to make a strong commitment to this in your policy paper. The report has developed three work axes and identified eight transversal action proposals. We also read in the report that they are included in the fourth federal plan on poverty reduction. What is the status of the work of the Working Party on the Automation of Rights? What is the state of play with regard to the implementation of the action plan on automatic allocation of rights? This is likely to be partly in line with the poverty plan. To what extent will that action plan correspond to those work axes and transversal actions as proposed on the webinar? Do you endorse the fourth action proposal, namely the proactive detection of potential beneficiaries of social rights? Do you also think that the Crossroads Bank of Social Security (KSZ) is an ideal partner for the introduction of such a system? In what way do you see possibilities to shape it with respect for privacy? How does cooperation and the exchange of information between different levels of policy take place? How can they possibly be optimised? Do you consider it desirable and possible to open up the administrative data flows for scientific research?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic517x.u82	Madam President, Ms Willaert, as mentioned on the webinar of 4 May, non-inclusion of rights is a complex, structural and multiple problem. The phenomenon is a real challenge for our social security, just because it is based on the fact that anyone who can claim certain rights actually makes use of it. Once again, the non-inclusion of rights undermines society and the credibility of our institutions, politics and democracy. The work of the administrations and the eight proposals for action are a first step in the right direction. At the moment, we are looking at how we can incorporate these actions into the poverty plan. An ambitious cross-cutting approach and sectoral approach will be necessary. Measures must be taken in the short and medium term. I will ask for this point to be included in all public social security institutions' contracts for the period 2022-2024. The proactive detection of rightholders is crucial for the automatic granting of social rights. The proposal needs to be further elaborated and refined, but it is very interesting. The KSZ will certainly have to be involved, with, of course, the protection of personal data. The non-take-up is a matter that concerns us all, both the federal government and the states. We must work together and be positive. The exchange of information is important and we need to examine how this can be done even more efficiently. Finally, it is desirable and not normally impossible to open up administrative information flows for scientific research. For example, consent may be requested from the Information Security Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic517x.u83	Madam Minister, I am sure that you take the fight against non-take-up very seriously. It is indeed important to do this cross-sectionally and by sector. In the end, a lot of people have the authority to make that happen. You cannot do that alone; you will need the help of your colleagues and of the Länder. I would add that local authorities also have an important role to play. They are ultimately closest to the citizens. We also know that non-take-up and possible automation can have many faces. Not everything can be automatic, but there are different degrees of automation and that local government can certainly play an important role in this. I am glad to hear that you will include it in all the contracts of the public social security institutions to pay attention to that. We look forward to further refinement and elaboration of the various actions to ensure that more people are included to which they are entitled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic517x.u84	Minister, I am aware that this issue is extremely broad, but I wanted to go back to this letter that was sent to you in November 2020 by the CPAS federation. It was called "The CPAS at the test of the covid-19". This letter told you of the difficulties that were going on during this crisis. In the face of the second wave, the CPAS insisted on the need for structural refinancing and staff support. Since the officers are generally under too much pressure, the federation asked you for flexibility in the checks and visits to be carried out by means of a temporary suspension of the SPP inspections in order to be able to concentrate on the essentials and to deal with the social emergency or, at the very least, that the inspections be reduced in the light of the circumstances. For both staff and beneficiaries, there is a great challenge for ISIPs to be able to meet the new deadlines, both for the conclusion of ISIPs and for their evaluation. I'll be right back. This letter from November 2020 dates back a little, but visibly I receive numerous requests from CPAS who ask me, through their advisors or their president, to express their concern, not least about the elements I mentioned, but also for the months and years to come. We are finally seeing an end to the health crisis, at least I'm touching wood for that to happen. These representatives rightly fear the delayed effect and the accumulation of the difficulties that await them. So, Minister, have you had the opportunity to deal with the requests made one after the other by the CPAS federation? Can we send them concrete answers to these present and future challenges? What elements have you been able to provide in response to these inquiries? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic517x.u85	Madam Chair, please be aware that I took up this difficulty at arm-to-body as soon as I took up my duties. As you know, I was president of CPAS and I know how difficult some CPAS are. As you are also aware, measures have been taken by this government to enable CPAS to have the additional means to deal with the crisis and the overload of work. As a reminder, briefly, here are the steps that have been taken. I am not talking about the measures in favour of beneficiaries, but about those in favour of CPAS. The 15% increase in the reimbursement rate is extended until the end of September. This is important for CPAS and it does not cost them anything. This is indeed an increase of 15% in reimbursement. There is an additional subsidy of two times 10 million euros, as you know, in the context of the 115 million euros for the beneficiaries. This makes it possible to finance staff costs. There are two times 10 million euros to which, in the framework of the personnel costs per file package followed by the CPAS, an increase in the federal contribution for more than 8 million euros is added. In concrete terms, this means that each CPAS receives an additional €45 per file in excess of 15% of the additional reimbursement. Other support measures have resulted in staff costs. For example, 10 million for the fight against isolation and psychological problems. We are in constant contact with the CPAS federations and I see all CPAS on a regular basis. I go to many CPAS in Flanders, Wallonia and Brussels to hear the workers. I recall that efforts must also be made at the level of all authorities. It is not only the federal responsibility to finance the workload of the CPAS, it is also a regional competence and a communal allocation. Despite the fact that all the political groups are talking about the overload of work – which I recognise – for the country's CPAS, not all of them support my requests for new ways of responding to it. I hope I can count on the support of your political formation to support me when I ask for means, since I never hesitate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic517x.u86	Minister, thank you for your answers. The 15 per cent increase in the reimbursement rate was clearly welcomed on many occasions. There is still concern about the increase in the financing of integration income, which is expected to increase by 22 per cent. It will be necessary to see whether the rate of reimbursement will be increased in the same way. It is important to be able to send this signal. We had already mentioned the idea of a monitoring to be clear within the CPAS regarding expenditure for new beneficiaries. Some CPAS are doing well for new beneficiaries but not at the operational level. Others say the opposite, that they are doing well at the operational level but not at the level of the new beneficiaries. It is known that depending on the communes, the areas, the elements can be very variable. It would be important to have a monitoring on this and, why not, at some point, a reflection on the possible transfer of these million euros. There is also the question of when this will end. We have already had this discussion of the extension of possibilities at the end of 2021. As for the question of asking for additional funds, indeed as a parliamentarian who exercises political control over the government, I will of course also take care to control all the members who make up this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic517x.u87	Madam President, Madam Minister, last week the government expressed its praise for the partial preliminary agreement between the social partners in the framework of the negotiations on the Ipa. You can understand that I almost fell off my chair, Madam Secretary. Your colleague, Mr Dermagne, will have noticed this in the same committee last week. Our discussion will, to put it mildly, haunt him for a long time. What I do not understand, Madam Minister, is that the previous government increased the age conditions for early retirement from 1 July to 60 years. Last week's communication suggests that the increase is maintained and fully supported, while everything pointed out that this would be reduced. There were even some legislative proposals from your group to apply the SWT from 58 or 59 years of age for companies in difficulty. The day before the agreement was signed, I was absolutely convinced that it would be 59 years. In fact, I was pretty sure it would be 58 years. But it's been 60 years. In ten years, from the government of Di Rupo in 2012 until now, the age condition has moved by no less than 10 years: from 50 years under certain conditions then to 60 years now. For a lot of people, that's a problem. First of all, we're not equal before death. Many people have started working in a very difficult profession at a young age and live less long than many knowledge workers. That is the case, the figures speak for themselves. We do not make that up, that is a general fact. The differences range up to 10 years. For life expectancy in good health, this difference even rises to 20 years. Secondly, the figures clearly show that early retirement and the increasing number of long-term sick are communicating vessels. We do not change social reality with the abolition of social law. People who have been completely refurbished or burned up are looking for ways out. Thirdly, a government that strengthens the SWT system is transferring the bill of large redundancies to employers and society. Do you recognise that the pension is not the same for everyone and that careers that are physically and mentally burdensome deserve an adapted pension scheme? What will you do besides the renewed deployment on runways to make the end of the career more bearable for everyone? What is the benefit of raising the SWT age to 60 years in the middle of a restructuring wave?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic517x.u88	Madam President, Mr Colebunders, I share with you the concern about the end-of-life workers, especially those with a higher level of occupation than others. Allow me to explain a few things. I think that's necessary. After all, you confuse all the concepts. I understand that you want to make your voice heard, but I do not think that the citizens of this country will benefit from being misinformed about their end-of-life careers. Firstly, there is a difference between SWT, the former pre-pension, and the early retirement. SWT is a collective agreement and therefore an agreement between employees and employers. Early retirement is a scheme applicable to any worker, regardless of the sector or the undertaking. SWT is the competence of the Minister of Work, the early retirement is the competence of the Minister of Pensions. Secondly, it is true that the previous government raised the age for early retirement. You are talking about a final increase on 1 July 2021. Once again, you are confusing the two. The withdrawal to the new condition for early retirement was achieved in 2019. I would therefore recommend that you do not use this forum to create confusion. This does not improve the confidence of employees. I can't imagine you trying to harm that trust. I therefore propose that you repeat your question where it should be asked, namely to the Minister of Work. Above all, let us wait for the internal consultation on the end-of-life and the other dossiers within the organisation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic517x.u89	Madam Secretary, you do understand that a lot of jobs do not allow us to work longer. Is this in the SWT event, which is another minister, or is this part of the early retirement? We know that the majority of people who cannot retire early are women. They do not come to the required number of years, that is the case. That does not mean, however, that they have worked less hard. They worked harder, because they also have a job at home. A lot of these people are falling out of the boat. That is the reality. We must really disappoint a lot of people in our country. Those people are out of work. The only safety net they have left today is the hospital. The figures show a spectacular increase in the age group of 55-plussers. What happens then? There's no room for them anymore. There's gonna be a reintegration. These people come to an employer and after so many years of service they are simply discarded, without a euro cancellation fee. They have always let themselves be squeezed like a lemon, and we are not looking at that anymore. We will continue to fight for their rights until someone finally listens.
