ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic459x.u1	Mr President, in view of the various changes in the committee's timetable, I do not have the text of my question in front of me. It was complicated to follow these. I will therefore paraphrase my question. With regard to the consultation on Doel 1 and Doel 2, if I followed the schedule changes correctly, this morning we voted for a confirmation of the royal decree taken in July 2020. This means that some things have been done before and others will be done after. It seems to me important that the minister avoid acting as if everything was suddenly wonderful on the pretext that Ecolo now participates in a majority government. That's what comes out of her communication. It's kind of fun and almost childish, as many things have been done before and others will be done afterwards. Two nuclear power plants were extended during the previous government. Some NGOs have sought to bring an action before the Constitutional Court. They were, in part, successful, since the latter replied that these environmental impact studies should be carried out, but that they should be carried out a posteriori and that the effects of the law would be maintained. In other words, Doel 1 and Doel 2 would continue to produce at least until the end of 2022, if and only if there were environmental studies and an inter-border public consultation. What did the previous government do? He continued, even in day-to-day business, to prepare for the entire process and to ensure that it did not become late one day. Today, when it is announced a public consultation, as if it were the eighth wonder of the world and as if it were due only to the new action of this new government and especially of the Ecolo part, I find this particular and this all the more so as it concerns nuclear energy. In addition, I would like to draw the Minister's attention to the need to conduct similar investigations, since the Constitutional Court has now established new jurisprudence under the impetus of the non-governmental organizations I mentioned earlier. For example, public consultations and impact studies must be carried out, I believe, in other frameworks, including the CRM framework or the possible extension of nuclear power plants that would take place during this legislature. The other question I would like to ask the minister is to remind me that, in the first few months of the new legislature after May 2019, some members of his party yelled at the wolf saying that the public was being consulted as part of a wide-ranging investigation into the national policy for the treatment of radioactive waste while in full containment. In this case, it is the same thing: we do it when there is confinement. For a month, if I'm not mistaken, we consult the public very widely, including across borders, as we wanted in the previous government, in accordance with the design of this set of consultations and impact studies as we designed it. I see no one bothering with the fact that this public consultation takes place online and during a period of confinement. I think I picked up my questions spontaneously and listen to the minister's answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic459x.u2	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, last year the Constitutional Court ruled that the 2015 legislative amendment on the extension of the lifespan of Objectives 1 and 2 did not follow the rules. Indeed, an environmental impact report was missing and no public consultation had taken place. However, the Constitutional Court ruled that Objectives 1 and 2 could remain open until 2022 and that by then new legislative work would have to be ready to extend the lifespan to 2025. Since the beginning of April, all inhabitants within a 1,000 km radius of the nuclear power stations have been able to express their views on whether or not to keep both reactors open. Madam Minister, I do not wish to be premature, but I would have liked to have heard from you how this referendum is going at the moment. What is the response at home and abroad? How are the formalities relating to the environmental impact report carried out? Do you still consider it feasible to complete all the necessary preparations by the end of 2022 in the light of the lifetime extension of the reactors until 2025?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic459x.u3	Mr Cogolati is neither present nor Mrs Buyst.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic459x.u4	Madam Minister, until 15 June, the public consultation on the environmental impact reports for the extension of the lifetime of the Objective 1 and 2 units will indeed take place. The results of the two reports are, of course, very similar to previous study work already carried out. For example, it states that the negative effects of keeping Objectives 1 and 2 open are negligible. On some aspects there is even mention of a positive environmental impact. The only exception to this is the discharge of heated cooling water. It has a negative impact, albeit not significant. This confirms the previous findings and, of course, already gives an indication of the environmental impact or even environmental gains to be expected in extending the operating time of nuclear power plants. There may be others. Some reactions by the environmental movement to the public consultation are already circulating, but they do not appear to be immediately based on the environmental impact study. What will you do with the reactions that do not go into the study work at all, which are submitted but actually more an opinion and if you want to be a belief? The study work was carried out at least partially on behalf of the federal government. Madam Secretary, do you believe that the study work was carried out properly? Can you support the results? How many reactions have already been submitted? It is a pity that a number of colleagues referred to the written version of their questions, but the following struck me and I must say that I am not surprised. Madam Minister, you were Mrs Marghem already referred to the co-author of a resolution against the public consultation by the NIRAS. That doesn't play here anymore. Moreover, in the written version of his question, Mr Ben Accour pointed out that the Michael administration had not produced an environmental impact report related to the extension of the lifetime of Objectives 1 and 2. But has one been made for the lifetime extension of Tihange 1?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic459x.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is a topical debate, so my answer is a little more extensive. But I also have very short answers in the coming questions. It'll work itself out. This public consultation takes place, like all other public consultations, on a project in your municipality or in your region. Citizens have 60 days to express their views on the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2, including the work done by Electrabel to ensure the continued safe operation of these plants. Citizens can learn about the detailed environmental assessment that has been carried out in two parts by experts accredited to do so. One on the decision to extend and the other on the extension work itself. Non-technical summaries are also available to assist the general public in their understanding. All these documents are available in the three national languages. This independence is very important to me. I will therefore refrain from carrying out any substantive evaluations, including any reactions that may be disseminated, especially as long as public research is under way. Given the very wide scope of this consultation in three languages, we have opted for a very simple and accessible interface, so that all citizens can easily respond via smartphone, tablet or computer. In my view, the result can certainly withstand the comparison with the websites for other public investigations in the context of the environmental impact of large projects, such as the websites of the different regions. We have contacted all countries within a thousand kilometres of Objective in advance through the appropriate procedures. Each country is organised through its legal framework and institutional reality. It is up to them to choose their methods of consultation and the degree of publicity they wish to give to this consultation. Most of our neighbouring countries opt for a dedicated web page that provides all information to their citizens so that they can participate in this consultation directly through our platform or through national websites. We do not yet have any figures on participation in these foreign consultations for the 'foreign' aspect. These foreign sites and contact points will be included on our website as soon as we are informed, so that Belgian and European citizens can participate in this consultation in the most inclusive way. This consultation, like all consultations related to projects with a cross-border dimension, has been managed at the level of the competent national administrations. It is not customary to intervene at ministerial level. It is the citizens who have the floor. The website made available to citizens to give their opinion on this project must remain as neutral as possible in the way in which this consultation is carried out. This site is not intended to conduct a "for or against nuclear energy" investigation. Citizens are called upon to vote on a specific project following the annulment of the law passed in 2015. This project is the decision to delay the date of deactivation of the Doel 1 and Doel 2 plants from 2015 to 2025 and the associated works. Projects that will participate in the CRM auction and require an environmental permit will be subject to regional regulations on environmental impact assessment and public consultation like all other projects. In addition, the CRM mechanism is technologically neutral. So we don't need a plan anymore. Mrs Marghem, as a former Minister of Energy, you know how different the legislation on nuclear activities and non-nuclear activities is, not only in terms of the content and scope of the obligations, but also in terms of competence. As for the public, it responds present. More than 6,000 people responded and their comments were recorded. More than 95% of these people indicated that they resided in Belgium. This very large number of reactions received in just 15 days shows that there is an interest among our fellow citizens in participating in this type of consultation. As the consultation is under way, allow me to refrain from responding to individual reactions, so as not to influence this consultation. We do not filter out the reactions during consultation. We will analyze the reactions at the end of the consultation. Responses and reactions to this consultation will be addressed in the summer by SCK CEN and my administration. In the second half of this year, we will incorporate its conclusions into a draft law, which I intend to submit to Parliament at the beginning of 2022 after the government has discussed it. In addition to the formal publication in the Belgian Official Journal, we have communicated on this consultation and we will continue to do so through the usual channels, the most important of which is the website of the FPS Economy. We have also asked all Belgian municipalities, which are also consulted, to publicise the consultation through their own channels. Nothing prevents companies from taking part in the consultation. Like anyone else, they can do so via the website or by sending a letter to the FPS Economy according to the instructions indicated on the website of the consultation. The participants will be kept informed via the website of the FPS Economy, on which all advice received will be made public. After a draft law is submitted to the Chamber, anyone can follow the progress of the parliamentary process via the Chamber's website. The public investigation started in the first half of 2021 and the aim is to be able to adopt the repair law before the end of 2021. That is what we are doing: we are repairing what the Constitutional Court has instructed us to do.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic459x.u6	Minister, thank you for your answers. They pass in part – as usual! – next to the two questions. The first was to know whether you were afraid that a public inquiry carried out through a site, for such serious issues, as we heard during the previous parliamentary term – in the case of nuclear power – would not allow for the organisation of public panels, not allowing for the organisation of a pedagogy of the dossier so that the citizens could understand it well, missed the objective. You're not answering the question. Like me, since you hold the positions I held before, you say that there are already a lot of citizens who respond. After 15 days, you are at almost the same level of response as we had with the consultation on the national radioactive waste policy. So nothing new under the sun! In the end, the old screams served only political wishes and objectives! You are restoring things in an objective way by saying how you design the consultation and, in doing so, you are framing Greenpeace who is making statements in the press about this consultation – something I have not done. You also say that, in your opinion, the CRM does not need an impact study and a public survey. I do not agree with you at all. All projects and plans that have an impact on the environment and are related to energy need the same attention and therefore an environmental impact assessment and a public survey, including a cross-border plan. And it is not the Regions that are going to recover this problem, we are talking about the federal. It's funny to hear you say that under the pretext that CRM would be technologically neutral, no such investigation is mandatory. You surprise me in the wrong direction!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic459x.u7	Madam Minister, I do understand that you cannot go into too much detail and that you are abstaining on substantive evaluations today. You make it appear that you will do your best to get a repair law through Parliament by the end of 2022, although I do not quite understand what agenda that will take place with. I note that 95% of respondents live in Belgium, which means that 5% is from outside Belgium. It should still be wrong. A popular questioning in a 1,000 kilometer radius is absolutely out of my mind. We are talking here about security of supply, about our energy policy, and in this respect I find it very strange that Scandinavians, for example, should be able to express their views on what we are doing and what we are doing here. This does not depend on how those respondents are informed. How can they judge in a proper way how we organise these matters here? Allow me, without going into the content, to say that we can guess that those 5% of respondents are often environmental activists interested in the file, not the ordinary man in the street from Denmark, for example. Madam Secretary, we need those two power stations anyway. They have a positive impact on our environment because they are responsible for decarbonisation. We will continue to follow up on the file. We look forward to discussing the final results of the public inquiry in this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic459x.u8	Madam Secretary, you have answered my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic459x.u9	Madam Minister, you have also answered my questions, for which I am grateful. It is quite natural that you do not yet make any comments on the comments that have already been received, while the public inquiry is still under way. We await the results of this and will undoubtedly discuss it further.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic459x.u10	Minister, thank you for your answers. I will certainly come back to you about the technical elements that you have raised.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic459x.u11	Thank you for your reply, Madam Secretary. I understand that you do not want to go into the content. It is quite clear that this question is being used for something else. Study work has been done to objectify the impact. I quoted what that impact was. Nor is it the first time such an E.R. takes place. A number of years ago, a complete environmental impact report was also produced for the re-authorisation of the Objective nuclear power plant, which, strangely enough, came to exactly the same results. But we know that the environmental movement is happy to ignore what was said at the time, and in that way it is trying to smuggle a lot of reactions into the process that are not really based on the study work that exists. I've got a double feeling on the 1,000-mile radius. I realize that that 1,000 kilometers makes the study work incontestable. Why don't you go ahead and explain that 1,000 kilometers isn't enough? However, it is wise that our country should also take the view that, when environmental impact reports are drawn up for the extension, re-authorisation or exploitation of coal and lignite plants, the same radius of 1,000 kilometres should be used. We know that Greenpeace published a report a few years ago, and so did the University of Stuttgart, on how far emissions from these plants can go. I therefore assume that you will have a say in the neighbouring countries and that you will be on your feet, as you have done the same. Finally, you did not answer my question about Tihange 1. That was undoubtedly because you knew that I could give you the answer myself. The answer is: no, the government has not produced an environmental impact report. Those who are now shouting loudest that a mistake has been made were the ones who were themselves in error. This government even has cabinet staff who have initiated proceedings before the Constitutional Court itself. That is where we have no lessons to learn.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic459x.u12	Madam Minister, I would like to mention a few points in connection with this topical and urgent debate. First of all, the PVDA considers it very important and good that people should be able to express their views on such an important issue as the extension of the service life of these two power stations. This is an important precedent, both at Belgian and European level. We certainly believe that this is a victory for democracy. Secondly, there can be no justification for us to keep these obsolete reactors, the oldest, almost industrial archaeology, 45 years old, in operation longer. They need to close as soon as possible. After all, they involve security risks. They no longer meet the current safety requirements, in particular the single-walled concrete casing and the weak protection of the cooling basin. These were not addressed in the context of the lifetime extension. In other words, they represent a real risk, with potentially far-reaching consequences, beyond national borders. It is therefore normal for European citizens and governments, even outside Belgium, to be able to express their views within a radius of 1,000 kilometres, up to and including Sweden. This also shows the potential impact of a possible problem or a possible catastrophe in these plants.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic459x.u13	Mr President, Minister, last Friday you took the volume decision for the first CRM auction in October 2021. You said the CRM should speed up the energy transition with accompanying measures. I think that is a fairly punitive statement, because our criticism and that of others has always been that the CRM will not accelerate the energy transition just because it increases the risk of lock-in. Everyone agrees that the CRM is mainly intended to subsidise new gas plants on fossil fuels, and this is also at taxpayers' expense. My first question is this. In what way would the CRM accelerate the energy transition? What accompanying measures are you talking about? You also said that you are doing everything you can to reduce the fossil capacity, and hence the construction of new gas plants. If we take a good look at that, we don't think you did. In the ministerial decision on the volume decision we read that you want to auction 7.339 megawatt volume in the T-4 auction. At first glance, this seems to be less than what Elia suggested, but actually that is a purely accounting shift of existing capacity. The difference is in the ineligible capacity. That volume shall be deducted from the T-4 volume auctioned. Here you are counting on 1,938 MW of additional non-eligible capacity compared to Elia's proposal. So you're counting on 3,026 MW of ineligible capacity, while Elia had proposed 1,088 MW. My questions are as follows. How do you explain the significant increase in ineligible capacity? Why was this not taken into account before? In your ministerial decision you also write the following: "After the pre-qualification, this contract will be updated in accordance with the operating rules." I'd like to get a little more explanation. What are the consequences if, after the pre-qualification, it appears that the volume was misjudged? What happens if the volume to be auctioned in T-4 increases significantly? The next question I have asked you many times, but I would like an answer to it now. How much new additional production capacity are you counting on exactly? In the press we can read the figure of 2,3 gigawatt (GW). Of course, I would have liked to have received an official confirmation of that figure from you. You also reserve a lower volume for T-1, as you reduce indirect foreign capacity by 871 MW. However, this does not lead to a higher T-4 volume. I assume this is due to the influence of the Brexit on the Nemo Link, assuming that the Nemo Link is available, to provide power in times of scarcity, but because of the Brexit it cannot participate in the CRM auction. That's a hunch. So I would have liked to have heard from you how exactly the fork is in the fork with regard to the 871 MW less T-1 volume. You chose to set the exercise price at EUR 300 per MW. With this you follow Elia and again you go against the CREG, which proposed a lower figure. I have warned you on several occasions about the risk of oversubsidisation and usury profits, and I would like to hear from you how you justify that choice. Finally, I have two more punctual questions. When we were talking about volume, there was still discussion about 155 MW of control power. I would like to know what you have decided on this matter. Last time, you promised us that you would release the annex to the opinion of the CREG, in short the correspondence between Elijah and the CREG. However, if I am not mistaken, this has not yet happened. When will we receive these documents?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic459x.u14	Madam Minister, you just said in the draft law that the debate should take place at the right time so that it can take place naturally. Here's an example of that! On Friday, the ministerial decision was taken to instruct the network operator to organise the T-4 auction, including the determination of parameters: reduction factors, reference price, exercise price, intermediate price limit, etc. I have to say that we did not discover this until Monday on the website of the FPS Economy. On Friday there was a lot of spectacle in the press about the new capacity and, of course, about the gas plants, because in the general public the CRM is equal to gas plants. So the communication was completely spinning around there. However, as Mr Warmoes said, there are many questions when the ministerial decision is read. We are talking, among other things, about the ineligible capacity, which is quite large with 3 GWh. In your opinion, this is a provisional assumption which can, of course, be updated after the pre-qualification. That is a very important nuance in the ministerial decision. The question is whether all existing capacity will be offered. There is a lot of public debate on this, which inevitably brings us back to the gas plants. Another point that struck me was that you said at the government's press release that now that the legislation has been worked out, you are passing the stick. The security of supply and the switch to 100% renewable energy are a shared responsibility of all governments in the interests of our citizens and businesses, you said. You will, of course, look at the licensing routes in the regions and look at the gas plants yourself. I thought it was a remarkable communication. I have already said that at the beginning of the CRM, you always said that this was not always about gas plants, but about technology neutrality, while you are now focusing on the 2.3 GWh, which translates into the assumption that much less gas plants will be needed than was previously expected. I actually have the same questions as my colleagues, Madam Secretary. Can you explain the volume to be auctioned, which according to the Ministerial Decree is 7.3 GWh, also in relation to the T-1 auction? Can you also explain more about the 3 GWh that is not eligible and the communication about the 2,3 GWh to new capacity? There are still many questions to which you will undoubtedly be happy and precise.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic459x.u15	Madam Minister, I have tabled three questions on a number of individual aspects. Since yesterday there has also been a little more known than at the time when the questions were submitted. You have taken communication and put the emphasis on two elements. The first element was that there could be up to 2.3 GW of new gas plants, the second element was that you are taking the historic step towards 100 % of renewable energy. As far as the latter is concerned, it is relatively clear that the regions are largely competent for this. You haven't actually decided on that in the past week. As far as the 2,3 GW is concerned, we know that there will be no separate auction for new capacity. After all, there will be only one auction. So the question is how did you decide that this is 2.3 GW? For the sake of clarity, that is not, of course, stated in the Ministerial Decree nor in the Royal Decree. My original question was exactly what you had decided, but that has now become clear. A number of issues have been raised, for example on the ineligible capacity. On 30 March, you explained in this committee that Elia predicted that it would be about 1,088 MW. In the meantime, however, it appears to have been blown up to almost 3.9 GW, a considerable difference. The question then is where exactly that comes from. I can imagine that you added the capacity that came from the United Kingdom, but then almost 2 GW added. You said last time in committee that we will take an assumption, which we will adjust afterwards. That's quite an assumption, if you add 2 GW to it. You then assume that this capacity is present in the market, but will not participate in the CRM. If that is about sun, wind and CHP, then they were already in Elijah's report, so it must be about capacities in the form of, for example, CEECs, which you think today will not offer. Only the law provides as it has been assumed that a person who has been prequalified until 30 September will have time to let the network operator know that no bid will be made. How do you see that? Is there supposed to be an effective correction so short before the auction, that suddenly the volume may increase by 2 GW, or isn't that the case? How do you deal with the fact that it is perfectly possible that there will be either much less capacity in that market, that there will be much less existing capacity, so that there will have to be much more new capacity, or that all the capacity that exists today will effectively bid? Then, of course, with that 7.2 GW in the T-4 auction, you will never reach that number that is now foreseen for new capacity. Could you point that out for me, please? Now we are in the game where they say they will do much less, but where it might be much more at the end of the ride. When a gas plant suddenly says it only needs three, but it makes 800 MW each, instead of six of 400, it doesn't make the difference at the end of the journey. Suddenly deciding to build three gas plants of 800 MW each instead of six of 400 MW, that of course does not make the difference at the end of the journey. Then the question is how you will deal with it in concrete terms. I'm gonna go check out the numbers that are known in the meantime. In this committee, you said that you were thinking of a limit price of about EUR 65 per kW. It now appears to be set at EUR 75 per kW. This means that you no longer use the open-cycle gas plants to calculate prices, but the classic gas engine. Can you explain why you chose to do that? As far as unproven capacity is concerned, at the time of our resolution, 400 MW of unproven capacity was used to participate. You've cut it by half to 200 MW. Can you tell us how that works and how we can proceed with it? Finally, we note that all the figures have changed. On what basis did that happen? Are there any modified reports from Elia or the CREG? Are there any opinions on this matter from Elia or the CREG? If so, can you deliver it to us? If not, have you adjusted the figures without the knowledge of those partners? Based on what?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic459x.u16	Mr Ben Accour is absent. He's given up, I think, for which all understanding, by the way. I therefore give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic459x.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall begin by disappointing you. It's all a little more boring than you had anticipated in advance, it's all a little more objective than you expected and it's all based on reports and figures. We'll go over it in detail. As Mr Ravyts says, it comes naturally. Indeed, the government decided on Friday on the ministerial decision to set the volume. We had to take that ministerial decision by 30 April at the latest. On 11 March, the CRM Act was adopted in plenary, which provided for the possibility of postponing the volume decision by one month, i.e. from 30 March to 30 April. On 22 April the government approved the KB on the volume methodology and, following on 30 April, the volume decision, which was published on the same day in the second edition of the Belgian Official Journal. A second edition was published at 16.00 hours and an instruction was given to the system operator on the same day. It's a bit boring, but we just followed the timing and executed it. I have some answers for you. All questions will be answered. My answer is structured as follows. I will first go into the ministerial decision itself and explain the calculation of the auction volume and then look ahead to what still has to be done up to the auction itself. Of course, a very important step has been taken now, but that is not the last step. There are, of course, a number of other steps and moments where we in Parliament will have to think further about what comes after the auction. In the end, therefore, I will discuss what we have to do. We have thus made a considerable progress, at a steady pace, with the adoption of the law on 11 March. The following day, the Royal Decree came to the Council of Ministers at first reading and was concerned with the Council of State, so we could effectively have the KB volume methodology approved at second reading at the Council of Ministers on 23 April. It was signed by the King on 28 April and appeared on 30 April in the Belgian Official Journal. The KB sets out the way in which as a minister I can give the final instruction for the organisation of the auction to the network operator. I did that effectively on April 30, and it was published that day, Friday afternoon, and meant to Elijah at night. The ministerial decision instructs Elia to organise the T-4 auction for the year 2025 and also provides the necessary parameters for this. These parameters take into account various proposals and opinions of the regulator, of the AD Energy and of the system operator, which were already discussed in this committee on 30 March. In the event of a deviation from the proposals, the ministerial decision shall include a statement of reasons for this. All the underlying documents were previously delivered to this committee. What are the parameters? The parameters are the reduction factors, the price of the day-ahead market that will be used as the reference price for the payback obligation, to which an exercise price of 300 euros per megawattage (MWh) will be applied, the intermediate price limit that we hold, in accordance with the resolution, at 20 euros per kilowatt (kW) per year, the maximum price that we hold, in accordance with the resolution, at 75 euros per kW per year and the auction volumes for this auction and the part that should be reserved for the T-1 auction. I have brought slides for this purpose which are technically summarized. I'd like to go over it with you. I did the same when we met on 30 March. These are the final figures now. We're leaving from the top line. That's the average power consumption in case of shortage. That's the peak we need to cover. That's about the 13,591 MW. Then we're going to add the need for control power. That's about 985 MW. Those are those units that are standing by, starting to kick in the moment a problem of scarcity begins to arise. I have used the metaphor here in committee before that if the water is on your lips, you still need a swimming band. Those are the balancing units we're keeping separate. Then we'll subtract some cases. The third line is the average non-supply of energy in case of shortage. This is our standard of reliability, which has been set at three hours in Belgium, in line with the standards of reliability abroad. That's the number of hours we accept that there would be no electricity, so the charge doesn't cover the demand. It's in the electricity bill. That 809 MW corresponds to those three hours. Next we come to the ineligible capacity, which now stands at 3.897 MW. I will explain in detail later how we got that figure, since most of the questions are about this. On the next line you can see the capacity reserved for the T-1 auction, namely 1.467 MW. This capacity corresponds to the 200-hour volume, the capacity running for less than 200 hours. Last week we also discussed this, following my discussion with Commissioner Vestager. For the Commission, this was an important element in our system, to avoid over-procurement in T-4 and to ensure technology neutrality. Then there is the foreign capacity that is also reserved for the T-1 auction. The rules for this need to be laid down. Foreign capacity will be able to obtain only annual contracts anyway, making it logical for it to be included in the T-1 auction. Which brings us to the split between the volumes T-4 and T-1. Approximately 74 % will be auctioned in October and the remaining 26 % in 2024, in the T-1 auction. I would just like to point out that we have 26% of the T-1 auction, in the UK it is 5.1 %, in Italy it is 1% and in Ireland it is 2 to 5%. It is very specific to our design that we really believe in new technologies in T-1, with a great ambition in this respect for that T-1 auction. To everyone here who said that technology neutrality is wrong, everyone knows that it is aimed at gas plants, it is enough to look at this graph, at this split to establish that it is not. We have done everything possible to limit that volume in the T-4, to guarantee our supplies on the one hand and to ensure that we bring that flexibility into our system on the other. Mr Warmoes, as a result, the CRM will be an effective lever, an important accompanying measure to shape that energy transition. Some of your questions are about the suddenly much lower volume that will be auctioned compared to the CREG proposal that we discussed in this committee on 30 March 2021. We have indeed had to amend the draft proposal of the CREG on this point, for next reason. In the draft proposal, the CREG had removed part of the ineligible capacity from the demand curve. All these documents have been forwarded to the committee, including the network manager's report and the draft proposal. So you can also perfectly reconstruct my explanation on the basis of the documents that were transferred to this committee. The ineligible capacity concerns the capacity falling below the minimum threshold of 1 MW or benefiting from production aid which is not abandoned elsewhere. That is the principle of decumulation; the aid cannot be combined. A capacity that receives support, sun, wind, CHP, cannot be reimbursed under the CRM. The network operator transferred the network operator's report to us at the end of last year. On the basis of the network operators' report, the CREG considered that only production from sun and wind would not be eligible. That's about 883 MW. Together with the 2.5 MW capacity below 1 MW, the CREG thus amounted to 1088 MW which would not be eligible and therefore did not need to be auctioned. That figure has also been mentioned by one of you. We have analysed both the network operators' report and the CREG report and we have seen that this would be an understatement. CHP, biomass and waste incineration plants can also benefit from production aid if they do not renounce it and then they are not eligible for participation in the CRM auction. We have submitted this to the follow-up committee and that has been discussed in greater detail there. This has examined the available data and calculated that up to 626 MW from CHP, biomass and waste incineration plants exceeds 1 MW on the distribution network and 1698 MW on the transmission network, i.e. large volumes. In accordance with Article 11 (3) of the Royal Decree on the volume methodology, capacity on the distribution network was all considered ineligible under the demand curve. For transmission network capacity, i.e. 1698 MW, we questioned the regional authorities about aid or not in 2025. For example, on the basis of the feedback from the Regions, we will receive a volume of 1312 MW which may still be eligible for regional aid in 2025. In other words, this is a volume that is not eligible for the CRM, if at least the aid is not abandoned. In order not to overestimate the auction volume and therefore avoid over-procuration, we have chosen to base the demand curve on an as realistic and workable assumption as possible. Of course, it's still an assumption, which we'll have to verify afterwards. The volume for which grants are expressly waived in the pre-qualification will be counted again later on in the auction volume. There will therefore be an adjustment of the auction volume after pre-qualification. Anyone who does not give up does not have to pre-qualify. So, at the time of pre-qualification, we will have to make a more accurate assessment. This was a draft proposal from the CREG, which it formalized at the time we took the volume decision. The CREG has also amended its proposal on this point, in line with what has been said here, in particular on the way in which the volumes of ineligible capacity should be dealt with. It is therefore not an accounting transfer, nor has it been blown up. An evaluation was made on the basis of existing capacities, it is about large volumes and it is just about avoiding overprocurement in T-4. The other aspect of the ineligible capacity concerns the participation of foreign capacities, in particular the UK volume of 871 MW, which we also discussed at the committee meeting on 30 April. The CREG assumes that the United Kingdom can participate in the T-1 auction by 871 MW. The agreement with the United Kingdom following the Brexit, the Trade and Cooperation Agreement, which has been in force since 1 January 2021, expressly states that none of the parties is obliged to allow capacity to participate in a capacity mechanism in its electricity markets on the territory of the other Party. The Royal Decree on Foreign Capacity merely provides that the CRM should be open to capacities located in neighbouring European Member States, in accordance with the Electricity Regulation. There is therefore no obligation to allow the UK's capacity to participate. The UK volume is therefore currently considered to be ineligible capacity. On the other hand, UK capacities will contribute to our security of supply. Elia reaches the volume of 871 MW in 2025, based on a Monte-Carlos simulation at a time of scarcity in Belgium, and that model assumes simultaneous scarcity. We therefore see no reason today to doubt that contribution, and even less to decide today that we will not be able to count on it, by contracting an equivalent volume to other capacities through the T-4 auction. Mr Warmoes seemed to be insinuating that we should add that to the T-4. For me it sounds a bit strange or inconsistent to be opposed to gas power stations, but then to recommend adding a volume of over 800 MW to the T-4. We didn't do that. We have decided to consider this to be ineligible. We will also re-evaluate the UK contribution in the calculations for the T-1 auction, which, taking into account the most recent data at that time, allows for the UK contribution to be revised downwards or upwards if necessary. A number of members have returned to the 2.3 GW new capacity. In addition to the production capacity of sun, wind and CHP, the recalculation of the existing production capacity, based on the derating factors, leads to about 5 GW of existing capacity present on the market. Last time in committee, I also indicated that, among other things, in the context of 'Ad and Flex', all data are available and accessible to the public. We apply a derating factor to it, which results in about 5 GW of existing capacity. The law says they all have to pre-qualify. Thereafter, capacity holders may choose whether or not to participate in the auction. If they do not participate, the so-called opt-outs, their capacity as dummy pray will be charged in the auction. These are bids at 0 euros per kW per year. You will therefore notice that all capacity is charged, in accordance with the methodology and calculation, whereby the supply is ensured and we ensure that we do not buy too much but just enough. Mrs Dierick has asked several times during our hearings not to buy too much and not too little. So it's about just enough capacity purchases: no overprocurement, no oversubsidies and no lock-in. We have all taken this into account and have reached a volume decision of about 2.3 GW of new capacity in the October auction for 2025. For those who wish to express this in gas power stations, this will result in two or perhaps three state-of-the-art gas plants, knowing that the T-4 auction is about multi-annual contracts and that other capacities that want a multi-annual contract can also participate in the T-4 auction. So not only is it focused on gas plants, it is also technology neutral. In fact, the number of gas plants will in any case be kept to an absolute minimum. We choose maximum for demand management, batteries and storage. As stated in the resolution and in the law, a large part of the volume is reserved for the T-1 auction, in particular 1,467 MW, which corresponds to the capacity required to cover the total peak capacity for an average of less than 200 hours. In particular, projects that can be implemented in one year, such as demand management, storage and batteries, are eligible. Before I look at the future, I'll answer a few more punctual questions. Mr Warmoes, you asked for the amount of EUR 300. I refer to the preamble to the Ministerial Decision: the amount of EUR 300 has been set so that sufficient parties can participate, which can have a mitigating effect in order to achieve the excess profits. Mr Wollants, with regard to the amount of EUR 75, I have effectively chosen to abide by what we agreed in the resolution. At the time, we had to raise an amount which gave an indication of the market. The slide shows that a lot of volume will be needed in the T-1 auction. This means that a very large volume will be auctioned a year before 2025. If one applies the derating factor to that, it means a very large volume. We didn't want to take any chances. If we go above 63, that volume will also be transferred to T-1. We wanted to make sure that we could auction the entire volume in the T-4 auction and not do a transfer. The impact on the price is relatively small. In any case, it is challenging enough and we should not put any extra challenge into it. The balance to have proper enough, the security of supply, must be guaranteed. The unproven capacity was also brought from 400 to 200, also to remove uncertainty from the system. Capacity can be offered, but it is not known whether projects will be against it. There is therefore an uncertainty there. Again there is the combination with the T-1, where there is a large volume. Finally, the work is not done yet. So we will come back to the CRM a few more times here. The programme for May 2021 includes a number of royal decisions, which we approve at second reading, after the delivered opinions. It's about investment thresholds and cumulative control. On 15 May, the CREG adopted the operating rules for the market. That's about 300 pages of technical operating rules. The deadline for pre-qualification and investment files for market players is 15 June. The whole explanation of the ineligible capacity and its actualisation is an important moment that falls there. Of course, we are still expecting the European Commission's decision at the end of the summer, and certainly before the auction. 15 September is the decision date for the CREG and Elia on the files of the market players. September 30th is our closing date. The auction results will be known in October 2021. The government review report on security of supply and price will be prepared in November 2021. The resolution also includes an evaluation of market competitiveness after the auction. I will conclude with my speech. It has so far been a piece of work in which we have come a long way here in this House. It has really been an interaction between Parliament and the government, also in a proactive way, when we have talked about auction volumes and the derating factors. That is an important discussion we have had here. Mr Wollants, you have spent a long time in committee considering the volume of the UK. You were wondering how this would be done and whether it would actually work. It is not a classic majority and not a classic opposition, but perhaps, Mr President, an example of fine and sound parliamentary work.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic459x.u18	Thank you for your detailed answer. I did not time it, but Members also have time for a detailed reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic459x.u19	Mr President, Minister, we have double-checked the figures of the ineligible capacity, with the figures on the website and the Energy Directorate-General. You give a different figure on the slides, in particular 3,600 or 3,800 MW, while on the website and by the general management there is talk of 3,026 MW. Is that a glitch on the slides? Or is there something wrong on the website?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic459x.u20	I just explained it to you. The UK volume is also in the ineligible capacity.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic459x.u21	Ah, good. However, I have just been told that it is not in the ministerial decision. Then I'd like to straighten something out for my real reply. I never said that British capacity should be included in the T-4. I said that this ineligible capacity, which I did not include UK capacity, is CHP, solar and wind energy, so the plants receiving aid should be included in the T-4 if these plants do not support them. You confirmed that, too. You said in the press once again that you have done everything you can, and you have repeated it here, to reduce the volume of gas plants as much as possible. But you didn't actually do that, and you didn't take any account of the criticism of the CREG. You have not adjusted the total volume in any way. I've talked about that several times. The reference scenario does not take climate into account and is therefore not in line with the new European methodology, which means that it has not been adapted. The consequence is that the total volume is still overestimated. You may say that according to the CRM this is technology neutral, but everyone knows that the new capacity will be filled with gas plants, especially with regard to the T-4. You have not made any correction to Elijah's approach, except for the issue of ineligible capacity. The revenues remain underestimated, the need for subsidies remains overestimated. All the reasons you cite to argue that you have kept the volume for new gas plants as small as possible are not because of your actions. You pointed out the split between T-1 and T-4, but that is actually already in the law of 2 April 2019, so that's not really your decision. The fact that the volume of T-4 in October is lower than what Elia suggested is actually only due to the ineligible capacity. If this aid is waived, you will add it, and it is in any case existing installations, existing capacity, so that does not change the new capacity that will be provided. I therefore note that, like your predecessor, you are almost blindly following Elijah across the whole line. Finally, you have said that we have received all the documents and opinions from the CREG and Elijah, but I would like to remind you once again that we do not yet have the annex, which you have not mentioned.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic459x.u22	Madam Secretary, thank you for your very comprehensive and precise answer. Like Mr Warmoes, I interpret it as if you chose a CRM light for the reference scenario. By this I mean that you have done everything you can to minimise the need for new gas plants, in theoretical practice. I would also like to thank you for your credible explanation of how you reach the ineligible capacity. In fact, the input and feedback of the Regions on biomass, waste, large-volume combustion plants..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I follow you when you say we should avoid overprocurement in October, but there will have to be another update. That's not insignificant in the whole story of this assumption. The intellectual honesty requires me to admit that you are right when you stress technology neutrality with regard to the 26% T-1. I also follow the government's belief in the new technology and the link with the energy transition that you are using to convince European Commissioner Vestager. However, I cannot help saying that in public opinion everything is narrowed down to the gas plants. In the media coverage it is mainly about the T-4 auction, the multi-annual route. Of course, you can't help yourself. I missed your explanation on Friday afternoon, so I'm not sure exactly what you emphasized there. In any case, the media coverage was almost exclusively concerned with the 2,3 GW new capacity. Mr President, we will certainly come back to this in the autumn if the results of the auction are known. This will make a great deal of sense about the decision to be taken on the two youngest nuclear power stations in this country.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic459x.u23	Madam Minister, since the Elia report we received at the beginning of December, although it dates back to the past, the 1,088 MW is already in the books. You yourself considered it useful to use the 1,088 MW in your speech on 30 March as what you quoted as realistic figures. It is a little difficult for me to believe that this extra capacity did not reach the surface until 31 March. That seems to me very bizarre, but it may be that no one has come up with that capacity during all these months and that it has appeared suddenly on 1 April. I will, of course, examine it further, but if I see what units are indicated today by Elijah.. what is on combustion, what is on CHP and such................................................................................................................................................ Maybe I misread it, but I understand there would be almost 1.7 GW on the Elia network. I do not find these figures in Elijah's tables today, so they may have ended up somewhere else or are not reported. I also know that sometimes there are problems with Elijah's figures. A while ago, I pointed out to you that the capacity of Plate Taille, for example, is indicated differently by Elijah than by the operator, so there is already a difference. Maybe there's another difference here. I would be very interested to know where that comes from. At that time we agreed 75 for the global price limit. After that, however, you explained to us that you have calculated what it should be. You then chose to use the figure of the open cycle gas turbines, to arrive at 63 or 64 via cost of new entry and a correction factor. You're going to deviate from that now. In your motivation for the ministerial decision, you only refer to the resolution and no longer to the calculation that you yourself used in committee as the basis for it. That's weird. However, I understand why you are doing that. After all, you do not know what environmental conditions can still be invented for the gas plants, which cost money. Think about the story with Bali Wind. Probably other conditions will come up as well. The story of existing capacity is still not clear. As indicated above, existing capacity may pre-qualify. They are obliged to pre-qualify if they are not included in the cumulation scheme. They can still refrain from bidding at the beginning of October 2021. At present, Article 7l (10) of the Electricity Act states that until 30 September 2021 they have the time to inform the system operator that they will not bid, which I do not think excludes them from making an offer in the T-1 auction. The question is, of course, what will happen to the volume. I understand that you say that the volume can be corrected on the basis of that cumulation scheme. A number of them will say that they are abandoning regional regulations and will thus end up in the CRM story. At that time, the figure of 7.339 will be adjusted after the pre-qualification. That's clear. The only question is what will happen to existing capacities which are not in the cumulation scheme and which decide not to offer. One reason could be that a number of market players are interested in building new capacity and want to compete for that 1,467 MW. This was introduced at the time to give demand, management, storage and such an opportunity, but of course the technology neutrality is what it is. It is perfectly possible to keep an existing plant, not to offer in the T-4 auction, but to offer in the T-1 auction. For me, then, the question is what is happening at the time, purely for the theoretical framework. Suppose it's about 2 GW from an existing plant. The mother house also has the idea of a new plant. Therefore, it keeps that 2 GW separate and lets the network operator know not to bid with it on 30 September. This means that there will be much more new gas plants to be allocated in that T-4 auction, to a maximum of 75 euros per kW, although not the full 7.339 but slightly less, the famous point A. Then that 2.3 GW is suddenly a completely different story. So there are still a lot of things that are not clear at all. I don't think that 2.3 GW was chiseled in stone either. I am very curious to see which direction it will take. I am sure that you will provide more detailed information to our committee over the next few hours and days, so that we can work together with you to see exactly what it is like.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic459x.u24	Mr President, in this topical debate, I repeat the Minister's words that there is no majority, no minority or no frank opposition in this matter, that divides take place in other places and are moving according to the subject. That is what I hear from my colleagues who are concerned about the figures that are being put forward before us. First of all, under pressure from government discussions, you are presenting us with a small CRM or what seems to be. To achieve this, we feel slippages between the calculations of the masses from one to the other. Finally, I congratulate you on doing quite well in apothecary accounts; because the real problem is monitoring. The monitoring which is part of the government agreement and which provides that you must monitor security of supply at all times, including with the evolution of prices, is not a fixed calculation. It's a dynamic calculation that can always change. When I see, for example, how you calculate existing capabilities, I find that I do not arrive at the same calculations. Unless I'm wrong, you talked earlier about 5 GW of existing capacity. With the directing, I arrived at 4.3. These small megawatts that travel from one station to another put us in a situation of uncertainty. In addition, you have decided to choose as a price - and I can understand why, too, the investor must be attracted - the maximum amount of our resolution voted in Parliament, while the administration provides for an amount of 64 euros and a few cents per KW, if I am not mistaken. All of this to say that, when the state is engaged, the minister – you are a lawyer, like me, you know what that means – and that he will no longer be able to backtrack, he will have to see the facts. Therefore, if the quantities are insufficient, we will face a security of supply problem. Similarly, if the quantities are excessive or insufficient, it will be very expensive and will result in CO2 emissions. I refer you to an interparliamentary resolution that you did not know because you were no longer a parliamentarian at that time. This is a resolution prior to May 2019 and adopted by the parliamentarians of the Federal and Regional Parliaments, so that Belgium is very ambitious in terms of reducing greenhouse gases. This resolution has undergone several changes and arrived before the European Parliament, saying that Belgium will decrease its greenhouse gases by 55% by 2030. So you can tell me everything you want about the greenhouse gases of our existing and future gas plants, it is clear - and, intuitively, all colleagues feel - that the installation of gas plants to replace nuclear power plants or some of them that produce little CO2 will put us in a negative trajectory in terms of CO2 in terms of our own commitments.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic459x.u25	Mr President, Minister, I have taken everything out of the slide, and I may not have to come back next time. There are also questions that I have asked a few times, but I still haven't gotten an answer to. If I get that now, maybe next time I won't have to come back. Madam Minister, the question about windmills in the international part of the North Sea has already been asked by Mr Daems to the Minister of Quickenborne, but it refers to you. The coalition agreement states that you want to focus on the development of offshore wind energy. Since early this year, Belgium has been President of the NSEC of North Sea Energy Cooperation. In an earlier reply, you indicated that you will be working on a renewed political statement and that cooperation with the UK and discussion of the bidding zones began. You also said the next step is farshore, which, I assume, means something like faraway. However, you did not provide any additional information. What actions have you already taken to realise offshore wind farms in the international part of the North Sea? Are there any concrete plans for this? Which Member States are talking to? Is this also discussed at the NSEC? On a discussion evening of think tank Minerva about the future of the energy system in Belgium, you said that planning is crucial. In what way do you work for this planned approach and how does it translate? At what time do you think that the first offshore wind farms in the international part of the North Sea can be realized? What steps are needed for this? What are the biggest obstacles? What is the current state of affairs for Belgium's other priorities in the NSEC, in particular the political declaration, cooperation with the UK and bidding zones?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic459x.u26	Mr President, Mr Warmoes, you said that I said the next step is farshore, but that I did not give any additional information. The North Sea has the opportunity to become the largest power plant and thus not only to provide renewable green energy to Belgium, but also to several countries. What I meant by that is that virtually all North Sea countries have now developed wind farms nearby and that the next step in the development is perhaps that there will be island constructions that will then be connected together to realize the meshed grid. Denmark took a decision on this at the same time as we signed our MOU on the interconnection between our two countries. Denmark's decision means that up to 10 million European families can be supplied with green electricity, but Belgium, too, has now decided, within the framework of the relay plan, to create an energy island in our own part of the North Sea by 2025, which is not only aimed at connecting our own offshore, but can also be a landing point for interconnection. This is the next step in the development of renewable energy in the North Sea. The planned approach is the following. The North Sea countries must organise themselves to ensure that they do not double their efforts and seek the most efficient planting and the most efficient connection of parks, islands and landing points. As for your final question, the European Commission has published its offshore strategy. Belgium's priorities for the NSEC are being worked towards the political declaration. Cooperation with the UK is also high on the agenda. Both bilaterally and in the context of the NSEC, we are looking at how we can shape cooperation between the North Sea countries. The first studies on the bidding zones are now being carried out by network operators and regulators. I asked my administration to prepare this so that we could discuss it with the Belgian actors, namely the park developers, the regulators and the network operators.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic459x.u27	Madam Minister, we too believe that a planned approach to the massive development of offshore wind energy in the North Sea is urgently needed. You rightly said that this has the potential to become the largest power plant in Europe. We agree with that, but it is important that the public authorities take the initiative and plan everything, and this cannot be left to the private initiative. We believe that there should be a public European consortium for the production of offshore wind energy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic459x.u28	Madam Minister, since 22 March 2021, network operator Elia has been part of the BEL20. I'm surprised. I wonder what the consequences of that are. Do you think that's a good thing? What does this mean for Elijah's financial situation? As the manager of our high-voltage grid, Elijah has a very important public function. It doesn't make sense that Elijah isn't entirely in the hands of the government. Elijah's goal shouldn't be to make as much profit as possible, should it? What's your vision on that? Is the status of a listed company the most appropriate, given the public interest of Elia? What are the risks associated with this IPO?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic459x.u29	Mr Warmoes, Elia Group is the holding company which comprises all the activities of the group, namely: the activities as transmission system operator in Belgium (via Elia Transmission Belgium), the activities in Germany (via subsidiary 50Hertz) and other international consultancy activities (via Elia Group International). Since 2005, Elia Group has been a listed company. That decision means that the group's shareholding is now partly owned by a public holding company, in particular Publi-T, and partly owned by private players. Today, Publi-T remains the reference shareholder, holding most of the shares without being a majority shareholder. The combination of public and private ownership is, in my opinion, beneficial to the company. Through his company Elia Transmission Belgium, Elia Group develops activities of crucial public interest for our country. Part of the stock held by the public enables us to keep that vision and decision-making of the company and to generate financial benefits for the community. Moreover, the opening-up of the capital to private investors allows the group to use available capital at low cost and in large quantities. This is particularly important for an innovative and constantly evolving company, such as Elijah in the energy transition. Of course, the combination of public and private shareholdership must be carried out in such a way as to ensure a fair balance between the financial return for investors and a high-quality service at the fairest price for consumers. That is also why Elia Transmission Belgium's activities are controlled and regulated by the CREG, which monitors its proper management. The same applies to the German regulator for the activities of 50Hertz.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic459x.u30	Madam Secretary, you will not be surprised that we do not share your liberal vision. Elia is a listed company and is therefore vulnerable to speculation on the stock exchange. You yourself say that it is a matter of vital public interest and we do not think that these two can be reconciled. Elijah must remain in public hands, because of course private capital doesn't come from non-profit organisations or anything like that. These companies are there to make profits, and we believe that this is contrary to the social objective of a company such as Elijah, which must serve society and consumers. It is a good thing that it is still controlled and regulated by the CREG, but that does not change our position of principle.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic459x.u31	This question could not be addressed last time either. On 26 February you received a letter from seven NGOs active on the environment and from the North-South movement in response to the latest feasibility study on the Belgian biofuels policy under the National Energy and Climate Plan, a study you were waiting for. In their view, the study has significant shortcomings. Environmental integrity, human rights, policy coherence for development, use conflicts and the financial aspects of biofuels policy are not sufficiently investigated. As a result, the study is a poor basis for public decision-making. The reason for this is the inadequate design and dubious methodology of the study. For example, the framework of the study does not take into account Belgium's commitments on sustainable development, biodiversity and human rights. In terms of methodology, the study was strongly influenced by industrial lobbyists, the NGOs were said to be barely heard and even their supplied documentation was not used. In addition, the European legislative framework, whether willfully or not, was misinterpreted. It is therefore not surprising that the conclusions of the study are, to say the least, questionable. The NGOs are now asking for the study to be supplemented by a full and more rigorous analysis of the shortcomings of the Belgian biofuels policy, in line with our country's international commitments. Will you answer the question of NGOs and will you have an additional analysis carried out to correct the errors? Will you avoid such shortcomings in the design and methodology of future feasibility studies?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic459x.u32	Mr Warmoes, on the basis of the National Energy and Climate Plan, there is a mandate for the biennial implementation of the study to which you refer. This means that the next feasibility study will have to be completed before the end of next year and the terms of reference will have to be drawn up soon. All elements in the NEKP should be taken into account. The elements need to be worked out in more detail in the terms of reference and should also be treated on an equal footing. In line with the NEKP, this concerns the technical feasibility of the incorporation rate, the availability of raw materials, environmental integrity, potential use conflicts, the availability of advanced fuels, including recycled carbon fuels, and technological developments in the European market, the availability of other sources of renewable energy and the cost to consumers. I will therefore take due account of the concerns expressed by NGOs, among others, in the terms of reference. This then responds to your concerns regarding the methodology of the future feasibility study.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic459x.u33	Madam Minister, I am naturally pleased with your answer. Indeed, it is important that Belgian policy on biofuels should look at the whole picture, give a true picture, allow good decision-making, and that we should be objective and listen not only to those who are favourable to the policy pursued but also to uncomfortable truths. We thank you for accepting your responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic459x.u34	Madam Minister, we are pleased to have heard of the announcement by your colleague Mr Khattabi, Minister for Climate, Environment, Sustainable Development and Green Deal, to ban biofuels based on soya and palm oil from the Belgian market from mid 2022 and to ban them completely from 2023. This initiative was framed in the Amsterdam Declaration Partnership against imported deforestation, to which Belgium joined earlier this year. The Minister rightly stressed the counter-productive nature of biofuels for climate and environmental damage as a result of the many changes in local land use that the cultivation of soya and oil palm entails. However, it did not take into account one fact, namely the negative effect due to the substitutability of first generation biofuel raw materials for different sectors and purposes. The first generation biofuel is produced from food and forage, which causes a major conflict of use with the food sector. If, as Minister Khattabi announced in De Standaard on 14 April, rape will be encouraged as a raw material for biofuel to replace soya and palm oil, then the food sector will be faced with a shortage of rape oil. There is then a risk that this sector will switch massively to soya and palm oil. This will, at best, lead to a zero operation in the area of climate and environmental damage. It is therefore quite possible that the shift of biofuel from soya and palm oil to rape could lead to even more damage. The argument that the use of raw materials from European soil for biofuel would be better for climate and the environment does not apply. Civil society has indicated this on several occasions, and it is also evident from studies by the International Council on Clean Transportation. Madam Secretary, what do you think of your fellow Minister's initiative? I assume that you are in favour of it, as it is taking a first step in the phasing out of biofuels. As a minister responsible for energy, that is actually within your competence. To what extent were you involved in that decision? In particular, I would like to know what steps you will take to phase out the use of all food-based biofuels. What action can we expect from you and your colleague, Minister Khattabi?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic459x.u35	Mr Warmoes, my colleague, Minister Khattabi, is responsible for the sustainability aspects of biofuels on the Belgian market, in particular on the basis of the law of 21 December 1998 on product standards to promote sustainable production and consumption patterns and to protect the environment, public health and workers. My associates are in close contact with Secretary Khattabi's staff. They work constructively together, including in the file cited. In order to transpose the revised Renewable Energy Directive, the so-called RED II, my services are currently working on a draft law replacing the Law of 17 July 2013 laying down minimum nominal volumes of sustainable biofuels, which should contain the volumes of fossil fuels released for consumption annually, as amended by the Law of 26 December 2015. This exercise will examine the role of the first generation of biofuels, taking into account the provisions of the NEFP.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic459x.u36	Madam Secretary, it will be prosecuted, if I have understood you correctly. If we want to eliminate the harmful effects of biofuels, we clearly do not believe that it will be enough to phase out the most harmful biofuels. Because of its substitutability, we must eliminate all biofuels in order to stop the disastrous effects on the climate, the environment, human rights and the world's food problem. I have already explained this in my question and will not go back to it. We do not believe that biofuels are a solution to the transition towards sustainable and climate-neutral transport. On the contrary, they are a brake on its development. After all, the more you focus on biofuels, the less the various transport ministers in our country should focus on well-developed public transport and the modal shift towards soft mobility. The biofuels are actually no less than greenwashing. They are a so-called solution, but in reality they may be worse than the ailment. Hopefully, you will have a firm policy to stop the use of first generation biofuels and commit yourself to making our transport more sustainable. That is what your election programme also said.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic459x.u37	Mr President, Minister, I would like to return to the CRM, but to the future. There has been a new CRM law for a few weeks or months, which places responsibility for determining the cost of lost tax in human language the cost of the power cut and, in non-human language, the VoLL parameter on your administration and the Federal Planning Bureau. The law provides that the valid standard of reliability is the standard applicable on 15 September and that that standard will then be valid for the following CRM auctions. It is therefore important that that standard is also effectively established before 15 September 2021 for the 2022 CRM auction. I have asked you this question several times, but I have still not received an answer. What is the status of the study to determine the VoLL parameter by your administration and the Planning Bureau? When will she be delivered? Will you ensure that the new standard of reliability is in place on 15 September 2021? When will that be the case? I have another informative question. Is a change of law necessary for the new standard of reliability or can the standard be introduced by royal decree? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic459x.u38	Mr President, Mr Warmoes, I will begin with your last question. We passed the law here in Parliament on 11 March 2020. This is governed by Article 7j (7) of the Act, which states that the reliability standard is laid down by the King and therefore by royal decree on a proposal from the CREG and on the basis of the method referred to in Article 23 (6) of the Electricity Regulation. I refer to the same law to state that the reliability standard known on 15 September of the year preceding the auction is always taken into account. I will therefore ensure that by that date there is a new standard of reliability for the calculation of the volume of the T-4 auction for the delivery year 2026. I think that I have already explained enough in other meetings that it is my intention to take account of the European methodologies in this area. That's obvious. That brings me to your first question, Mr Warmoes. The AD Energy has sent me a note on the VOLL. As a reminder, the VOLL is the single value of the lost tax, an estimate in euro per MWh. It concerns the maximum electricity price that customers are willing to pay in order to avoid non-availability. The note on the VOLL value is the result of exchanges between the AD Energy, the Federal Planning Bureau and the CREG. A figure for the VoLL says little in itself, because it is one of the elements needed to achieve a standard of reliability. In addition to the Voll, we also need the CENE, the Cost of New Entry. For me it is therefore appropriate to conduct discussions on the basis of both parameters and to draw possible conclusions there. The calculation of the CONE is currently under way. For both the CENE and the VOLL, the new methodologies are applied, as required by the Regulation and in the ACER Directives. I expect the report on the CONE shortly after which we will discuss both reports in the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic459x.u39	Madam Minister, I am initially pleased with your answer, because you have promised that the standard will be there by 15 September. I would like to have access to the note from the AD Energy you spoke about. It is true that the VoLL is only one of the parameters, but of course it is a very important one. The others are also important, but so is this one, which is why I urge you to do so. Are the documents ready and can we see them yet?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic459x.u40	Mr President, Minister, this question concerns the energy hub in the North Sea as part of the federal relaunch plan that has been discussed several times in this committee. EUR 100 million has been provided for this. You mentioned earlier in this committee that it is intended exclusively for transmission infrastructure. However, we were somewhat surprised by the Prime Minister's statements during the presentation of Elijah's annual results. He called the energy hub there a part of the digital revolution. He talked about 5G antennas, offshore data centers and the development and goals of the technology sector. What are the exact objectives of that energy island? Can that be defined specifically? What are the components that will be realized first? Which components will receive support and which will not? What do you think of the Prime Minister's ruling? Can you frame this? After all, he has a different objective for that energy island than you do.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic459x.u41	Mr President, Mr Warmoes, I think that the Prime Minister is an excellent coach of this government and I would like to refer to the important Council of Ministers last Friday, after which the relaunch plan was also delivered to the European Commission. That relaunch plan is a good example, and I quote the Prime Minister: 'of federalism cooperation'. This plan is made up of federal and regional projects that are complementary and the global plan has a double fingerprint, namely green and digital. The energy transition and energy revolution are also an excellent digital revolution. One can't go without the other. What we will do with the data, how those data come and how we can speed up the energy transition, goes hand in hand. I am glad that you have not said, as in your other questions, that you have asked me many times and that I have not replied. I have often been asked about the energy island. I have answered many times and will be happy to reply again about this beautiful flagship in the relay plan. The energy hub is built in the Belgian part of the North Sea. It concerns island infrastructure with five hectares of useful area, built within the limits of the renewable energy zone, in particular the Princess Elisabeth zone. The entire surface is built at once. The objective of the hub is primarily to realize the transmission of energy that will be generated in this second zone. An area of three hectares will be seized for this purpose. The EUR 100 million Relaxation Plan's Recovery and Resilience Facility, RRF, will be used to achieve this first and main objective. Mr Ravyts questioned me about this last week. He asked how we would ensure that it would effectively provide lower invoices for consumers. I also said that 1 million was earmarked for projects to support, improve and restore nature. The remaining EUR 99 million will be allocated to Elia Transmission Belgium. I refer to my previous reply. So this is the regulated part of Elijah and will serve for the realization of that piece. The remaining two hectares can then be filled in with other activities to position us as Belgium as a pioneer within the EU. There is currently no definitive list of projects or what activities it will take. The conversations are in full swing and various slopes are being investigated. Offshore data centres and a 5G antenna are possible activities that are being investigated, as is the role of this island in further interconnection with other North Sea countries, other energy production, generation and storage activities. The Prime Minister's statements are about the important and great challenges facing our country, the digital and the green revolution. All the common benefits and opportunities that can be taken out of a project, for example the opportunity to use the infrastructure of the energy group for digital purposes, offer added value in realising the common future challenges for our country. Our island is therefore extremely multifunctional.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic459x.u42	Madam Secretary, thank you for the clarification. So there is no contradiction between you and the Prime Minister. I am pleased to hear that in the context of the relay plan only the transmission infrastructure is financed and that what the Prime Minister said was rather announcement policy. Of course, I am not going to start the discussion on 5G right now.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic459x.u43	Mr President, Minister, by the end of February 2021 the Committee on Nuclear Facilities would deliver an opinion to you on the strengthening of the legislative framework for nuclear facilities, the so-called Synatom Fund. This fund should cover the costs of decommissioning nuclear power plants and the management of high-level radioactive waste. Currently, the resources in the Synatom Fund are insufficient for the total cost of managing radioactive waste. Legislation is also insufficient, which means that there is a high risk that ultimately the Belgian State and therefore taxpayers will have to pay for the cost of nuclear waste rather than the operators who are responsible for it. What is the Commission's opinion on nuclear facilities? Are you going to make that public? Currently, there is €13.7 billion in the Synatom Fund, of which €7.7 billion for the disposal of high-level radioactive waste, category B and C. What is currently the estimated cost for the disposal of all this highly radioactive and long-lived waste? How much volume of that waste do you think will have to be recovered in total? Do you take into account the part of high-activity and long-lived waste currently stored in Olen? This is about UMTRAP and part of the unprotected landfill D1. How are you going to recover the costs for the disposal of the high-activity and long-lived waste from Olen? Will this also be part of your proposal to strengthen nuclear facilities? Now that you have received the advice, what follow-up steps are you planning? When can we expect your bill to strengthen nuclear facilities?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic459x.u44	Mr President, Mr Warmoes, I have received the opinion and analysed it thoroughly. The Committee on Nuclear Facilities, the CNV, has issued valuable opinions on a number of issues, in particular the role and powers of the Commission, the protection of the equivalent of nuclear facilities and the organisation and administration of the nuclear company, in order to review, strengthen and legally anchor them. At present the CNV is preparing a translation into both national languages, after which the opinion can be published. By the end of 2020, Synatom's nuclear facilities for the geological disposal of the fuel used amounted to around EUR 7.8 billion. The NIRAS calculated the cost for the underground disposal of the high-activity and/or long-lived radioactive waste, i.e. categories B and C, at 10.7 billion euros in 2018 based on an inventory of 11,000 cubic metres. This includes all known inventories of the various waste producers. I would like to point out that the irradiated nuclear fuels at Synatom are only part of that. At present, it is not clear how much waste from Umicore will eventually have to be included in such a disposal facility. The NIRAS and the FANC are working on a roadmap to examine the possibility of on-site disposal or transfer to the NIRAS. Together with the cabinet of the Minister for the Interior, we are working on a first draft establishing a regulatory framework for the management of soils contaminated by radioactive substances. The CNV's advice includes many interesting slopes. My experts are currently working, in close consultation with my administration, on a strategy to meet the challenges of nuclear commissions. You will understand that this is a complex matter and that it will therefore take some time to set up a robust system.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic459x.u45	Madam Minister, you announce that the opinion will be made public before it goes to the Council of Ministers, which is important. It is, of course, essential for us that the nuclear operator remains responsible for the cost of disposing of high-level radioactive waste. It cannot be the intention that he should be able to buy that responsibility from or transfer it to the Belgian State. Thank you for the figures and the information. Mr President, this is a very important issue, perhaps of even greater importance than the key step itself. It is also a complex matter, as the Minister said. It is of course also very important for the operator. I would therefore like to propose that we hold hearings on this matter in this committee or perhaps earlier in the Subcommittee on Nuclear Safety, so that there is full transparency. You did not say when we could expect the draft law, Madam Minister, but it would be a good idea to organise a hearing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic459x.u46	I would suggest that your question be discussed in the next regulation of the work in this committee or in the Subcommittee on Nuclear Safety.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic459x.u47	With regard to radioactive waste, the government has yet to take another decision, in particular the national policy decision on the disposal of long-lived high-level radioactive waste. There must be sufficient resources for this. That is what we discussed earlier. The key question is what you will do with it, where will it go? The NIRAS advanced the geological disposal as a solution, in which the FANC added. Will you at the same time take a decision on the strengthening of nuclear commissions and make a choice about the disposal of our highly radioactive waste? At the beginning of February, the NIRAS gave a presentation in our Nuclear Safety Subcommittee on its proposal for geological disposal. In this connection, the NIRAS referred to "une réversibilité de la décision," a reversibility of the decision, and to "une récuperabilité des déchets," a possibility of recovery or disposal of the waste. What's your position on the geological salvage? Do you think the decision on geological disposal should be reversible? Do you think it should be possible to recover the high-level radioactive waste once it is recovered? How do they relate to each other? Does the reversibility of the decision require that the waste can be recovered at any time? Are those two separate things, or is there an interaction? How does passive safety relate to the possibility of recovering the waste? Are both principles already included in the NIRAS proposal? The NIRAS also provided an overview of the next steps and provided for "their fixed débat social avec interaction and ligne intense, un évènement face à face, une couverture médiatique" for the period April-June 2021. We have not seen much of that debate so far. What steps do you and the NRAS intend to take to reach a broad-based decision on the future of our nuclear waste? Finally, in one of your last actions as a Member of Parliament, you submitted a bill establishing an independent and participatory observatory to monitor and monitor the management of nuclear fuels and radioactive waste (OPORA). The aim of your bill was to create an independent institution that would organise an ethical and social reflection on radioactive waste management as a basis for political decision-making and to make public all documents on radioactive waste. We were very fond of that bill. A transparent and open debate is crucial. Now you're Minister. Will you take the initiative to set up such an observatory? I hope so, but if not, why not? Will you, as Minister, ensure that all documents relating to radioactive waste management are made public? That's your jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic459x.u48	Madam Minister, Mr Warmoes's bomb on questions shows that there are many facets of the issue of nuclear waste. You just referred in your reply to a bill on the management of soil-polluting radioactive sites. Just before the Easter recess, there was also the current draft law on better division of labour between the NIRAS and the FANC. In addition, there is the issue of nuclear commissions. The question is indeed about the principle of geological disposal of category B and C radioactive waste in this country. Do you intend to link all these matters together, including the issue of Synatom and the nuclear commissions? On 25 September, NIRAS delivered a proposal of national policy to your predecessor, which was improved on a number of points following the public consultation. The main improvement was the clarification of the concept of reversibility. There is also a European infringement procedure against our country on the 2011/70/Euratom Directive. Today, no decision has been taken at KB on the principle of geological final disposal, in line with the modified proposal of national policy. We had a hearing with the NRAS in the subcommittee on 2 February. The institution is right to ask that the decision be finally taken. The development of the decision-making process should then be recorded. In the context of a broad public debate, it seems necessary to raise awareness in order to arrive at a documented and substantiated decision through a funnel form. The decision-making process should address several aspects, e.g. the criteria to invoke the reversibility of the decision, the period in which the waste is to be recovered, the period in which the waste will be monitored and how long the disposal site remains open. If there is no decision, additional storage space must of course be built. That need is already evident, think of Doel. By constantly delaying the decision, more and more radioactive waste is being placed on the sites. The dry storage of the fuel, which is not yet radioactive waste in the real sense of the word, and the wet storage in Doel and Tihange were accepted for decades by a large part of the local population. That was also the case in Mol and Dessel. On the other hand, the local population should also be able to determine the site and the model for the final disposal. How is the decision of the national policy proposal now being prepared by you through KB? What steps have you taken in the file over the past few months? What is your position against the principle of geological salvage advanced by the NIRAS? How do you see the further decision-making process and the wide-ranging social debate aspect? How exactly do you see the reversibility of the decision?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic459x.u49	In today's scenario, we have around 10,900 cubic metres or more than four Olympic pools of category B waste. That's long-lived low and medium-radioactive waste. We also have about 2,600 cubic meters or one Olympic pool long-lived high-radioactive waste, so category C waste. That is a considerable amount of waste that has indeed not yet been decided on. That must be done, and we must bear in mind that this waste will remain radioactive for up to 300,000 years. 300,000 years ago the forerunner of man lived, in that time horizon we speak. On 25 September 2020, the NRAS submitted a proposal for a national policy measure to my predecessor. Together with Mr Dermagne, I have examined this proposal in the light of the public consultation, the opinions of the various official bodies consulted, including the three Regions, the government agreement of 30 September 2020, and also my energy policy statement, which also falls back on the government agreement. Given the long-term perspective on which development and implementation of a solution will be spread, it is essential to be able to reconsider all decisions taken. That principle of reversibility of the decision in the coalition agreement stems from the relevant European directives and is generally accepted. The various regions have also pointed this out in their opinions. The principle of re-recoverability then concerns the recovery of the waste from an installation, for example as a result of reversing a decision. Further decision-making in the dossier should be supported by a broad participatory process, which will have to deal with the principle and the modalities. The proposal must therefore take account of these principles, as contained in the coalition agreement. In order to ensure the polluter pays principle when managing a project that will run for generations, it is essential that the waste producers set up adequate and available commissions. Policy measures are, of course, an important step to be able to correctly assess them. The results of the participatory process will provide further clarity. Work on strengthening commissions is parallel to that on the policy measure, but decisions need not necessarily be taken at the same time. I look forward to the participatory debate. It is my wish that there should be an exchange between experts and the public in all openness and transparency through representative panels. I am sure that will be a success. It is therefore intended to repeat this in any important decision on long-term management. If we do this properly and in a structured way, it is in line with the objective of the observatory.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic459x.u50	Madam Minister, I have to say that today I am quite satisfied with your answers, apart from your response to the CRM. We will always disagree on the CRM. You are right to point out that this is a very important dossier. You mentioned a period of 300,000 years, which is roughly 3,500 generations. So what we are deciding now has consequences for 3,500 generations. The homo sapiens haven't even been on our planet that long. I've made a very good note of it. You have remained rather vague, but you have clearly indicated that, firstly, you support the fact that the decision taken can be revoked. That will probably be part of it by moving insight. Technologies will also evolve. Secondly, you have stated more generally that you want to start a wide participatory process. I hope, therefore, that you will make every effort to organise this as effectively as representative, as open and as easily accessible as possible. You did not address the question of whether you would indeed set up an observatory to monitor and monitor the management of nuclear fuels and radioactive waste, in accordance with your legislative proposal as a Member of Parliament at the time. I take note of your commitment to make the process as broad and participatory as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic459x.u51	Madam Minister, I take note of your explicit recognition that the decision does not necessarily need to be taken at the same time and that the work on nuclear commission and long-term management is parallel. So what is the time frame for the participatory debate? You did not answer that question immediately. I would just like to stress once again that the longer we wait, the more space must be created and the more investment must be made. Of course, that will have to be done by the operator. At least space must be created for above-ground storage on the sites themselves. I really don't know if that situation is ideal. I advise you to read what the NIRAS and the FANC write about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic459x.u52	Madam Minister, you said in previous answers that the responsibility for the social aspects of the closure of the Doel and Tihange nuclear power plants lies primarily with the operators themselves. However, we believe that the government itself should guarantee this, and it is ultimately a political decision. We believe that a social transition plan must be put in place for the workers of nuclear power stations, with full employment, qualifications and wage conditions. The workers of these plants deserve priority to be retrained so that they can guarantee the remaining activities of those shut down nuclear power plants, their decommissioning and the management of the waste. ENGIE Electrabel and EDF Luminus must under no circumstances resell the closed nuclear power plants to specialised firms, as is currently happening in the United States, where working conditions and safety and environmental conditions are threatened. The employees of Doel and Tihange should be given priority in employment related to nuclear passive outside the sites. A conversion plan for both sites should also be drawn up, for new employment, by making maximum use of renewable, non-nuclear and non-fossil energy generation. That's why I have the following questions. What commitment does the government make to the employees of Doel and Tihange? Do you guarantee employment and the maintenance of wage and working conditions for the workers of nuclear power stations and their numerous subcontracting activities? What will you do if the operator refuses to include sufficient social commitments? What work is currently being carried out or planned in the task force set up for this purpose? When can we expect results from this task force? After all, time is running out, since the first plant will be shut down on 1 October 2022. Will you ensure that ENGIE Electrabel and EDF Luminus cannot sell their closed installations so that they cannot avoid their responsibility for the nuclear passive?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic459x.u53	Mr President, Mr Warmoes, the main responsibility lies with the operators. No one here wants to discharge the operator of his responsibility. I am Minister of Energy in the federal government, and as much as I would like to do so, most of what you ask is not within my jurisdiction. Still, I'm not stuck with the suits. You know that the closure of nuclear power stations in a safe and socially responsible manner, as well as the preparation for decommissioning in a safe environment and the responsible management of the resulting waste, are a priority for this government. As you know, we have decided to set up a federal task force in which the Ministers responsible for Energy, Home Affairs, Economy and Work are represented. In the meantime, we also come together virtually on a regular basis. Although we are waiting for more opportunities to get together physically before the official launch, our cooperation has already produced results. Minister Dermagne and myself have jointly submitted a number of projects for the relaunch plan. One of these projects aims to ensure that Belgium will be better prepared for the upcoming decommissioning by research and development of innovative techniques, with the full use of Belgian expertise. The Task Force will examine to what extent those projects can contribute to the creation of labour opportunities for the staff of the core operator and its subcontractors. In this context, the task force will ask the nuclear institution under our supervision to cooperate on training programmes, including nuclear decommissioning and decontamination, with a particular focus on the workers affected by the closure of nuclear power plants. The Task Force will also support the nuclear institutions in promoting their know-how, including acquired in the context of decommissioning, to third countries. Legislative changes, such as the general rules on the acceptance criteria for radioactive waste and on the decommissioning and management of radioactive waste, are also discussed within the Task Force.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic459x.u54	Mr President, Minister, as always in this country, this is a shared competence. We will therefore continue to monitor this at regional level, both in the Flemish and in the Walloon Parliament. The closure of power stations is, of course, a decision of the federal government. This issue is an important test case for the government's commitment to making the energy transition socially equitable. For the sake of clarity, the PVDA fully supports the whole nuclear trip, but we do not believe that the workers of the nuclear power stations and of the subcontractors should bear the costs. I take note of your commitment and I hope that you and your colleague, Mr Dermagne, will do everything in your power to ensure the employment and working conditions of those workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic459x.u55	Madam Secretary, here we have another facet of the matter. The Nuclear Energy Study Centre (SCK), the National Institute for Radio Elements (IRE) and the National Institute for Radioactive Waste and Enriched Fuels (NIRAS) together receive more than EUR 115 million in taxpayers' money each year and employ more than 1,300 employees. At the beginning of January, we discussed in Parliament a report by the Court of Auditors on the nuclear institutions. For the institutions under your jurisdiction or co-responsibility, you specifically said that you only want to work through management agreements. In this way, you aim to "more guarantee that public funds will be used efficiently'. You had already contacted the three institutions at the time, asking for a management contract to be concluded in order to improve management. You have always stressed that this must be done in a mutual dialogue. No one-way traffic could be imposed. Minister Dermagne, together with you in charge of the matter, has made a proposal in which he indicated that the existing management agreements with public institutions on social security could serve as a model. In any case, you want greater transparency and supervision, including of the subsidiaries of the nuclear institutions. What steps have you taken in the past few months to improve the framework? What's your timeline? Are there any problems or bottlenecks emerging? If so, which one? What legislative work is needed to achieve the objectives?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic459x.u56	Mr Ravyts, a few months ago I said in Parliament that the Court of Auditors' report is my work plan for improving the management and supervision of nuclear institutions. At the beginning of this year, together with the Minister of Economics, Pierre-Yves Dermagne, I sent a letter to the Presidents of the Boards of the three Institutions, SCK CEN, IRE and NIRAS, to submit a first proposal for management agreement on the basis of the recommendations of the Court of Auditors. In the meantime, we have also received the first proposals from the SCK CEN and the IRE. The NIRAS proposal was already discussed on the Management Committee on 28 April and is on the agenda of the Management Board on 7 May. The proposals will first be examined internally by my cabinet and the cabinet of Co-Corporate Minister Dermagne, together with the administration, after which we will discuss our comments and objectives with the representatives of the SCK CEN, the IRE and the NIRAS. Of course, we now also have various informal contacts and from those talks and the documents we have already received, I would like to point out that there is goodwill among the institutions, as far as management agreements are concerned. We intend to reach agreements that can be signed before the summer recess. I have always said that we want to respect the autonomy and powers of the administrative bodies and, above all, the recommendations of the Court of Auditors and the objectives of the government agreement to be translated into the activities and priorities of the institutions and the forthcoming multiannual plans. With what I know today, I do not expect legislative work to be required to achieve this. Everything depends on the final content of the management agreements. It is clear that if better management of these institutions were to require an adjustment of the legal framework, I would be prepared to take the necessary steps.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-04-definitief-55-commissie-ic459x.u57	Madam Secretary, you spoke of goodwill. You intend to land before the summer recess. You are indeed studying the proposals that have been received. There is a positive development going on here. I'll take it from here.
