ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip110x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip110x.u2	Colleagues, Yesterday we learned with sadness the death of our colleague Marc Goblet. We knew his state of health was fragile, but the announcement of his death surprised us all because he had wanted to continue to participate in our parliamentary work. I will pay tribute to the memory of our colleague at the next plenary session. But let me already briefly mention his memory. With Marc Goblet, the Chamber loses a man who was faithful to his beliefs. His willingness to listen, his selfless commitment and his openness to others were recognized by everyone. Those who have known will preserve the image of a warm, humble and deeply generous man. I have conveyed the condolences of our assembly to his family.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip110x.u3	Madam President, Prime Minister, how long will the European Union continue to subsidise the Hungarian dictator? Over and over again, Viktor Orbán defies everything the European Union stands for: democracy, the rule of law, human rights, freedom of the media and this week again the freedom of the Igbtqi community. When a Member State of the European Union deprives people of their freedom to be who they want and to love whom they want, that is a particularly black day for human rights. How could it have come to this? The answer is actually painfully simple, because some people let him get away with it. Not only countries on the other side of Europe would rather support Orbán than the people of Hungary, but also in our Parliament are parties that let him get away with medieval practices. Parties here calling for the rights of Holebi's show their true nature when no one is looking. The N-VA is tough on Twitter about holebirechten, but in the meantime he was happy to vote with Orbán in the European Parliament last week. The PVDA is talking about human rights, but they too are absent when it comes to the real issue, because they too abstained in the European Parliament last week. The Flemish Interest even laughs with Orbán in the photo and encourages him. This problem doesn't solve itself. Choose. Be a democratic party that stands up for the rule of law or shut up and choose Orbán. There are no more options. For Forward, it is clear: enough is enough, no more subsidies for the criminal practices of a dictator. It is high time that the European Commission, as agreed, developed and implemented the European rule of law mechanism. It's gotta be done with tallows. Prime Minister, you are going to the European Council next week. Will you argue in favour of stopping European subsidies through the mechanism?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip110x.u4	Madam President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, these are the fundamental principles of the European Union. When the former Eastern bloc countries turned one after another towards the European Union, it gave a great sense of liberation throughout the Union. We thought that these countries were finally freed from the yoke of the communist dictatorship and that they chose Europe fully, for our values of democracy and freedom and for the right to self-determination of each individual. It is very painful, Prime Minister, to note that a country like Hungary is gradually slipping into a conservative dictatorship. Yesterday it was about the free media in that country, today it is about the rights of the Holebi community and the transgenders. A law has now been passed that stigmats that group and in fact criminalizes it. That happens one step at a time, and the Union is looking at it. Not quite, because we questioned you at the time when it was about the solidarity mechanisms, the money that had to be spent urgently on those countries. If we want to have European solidarity mechanisms, then we must also respect the principles and rules of the club. It is therefore urgent to clarify the situation. We have put in place a rule of law mechanism, but that has still remained dead letter. The implementing decisions are before the European Court of Justice following a procedure initiated by those countries themselves. What will you do next week at the European Council? What message will you send there? How do you intend to ensure that the rule of law mechanism, Article 7, is put into effect as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip110x.u5	Madam President, Prime Minister Hungary and his government, which can now be called the far-right government, are once again shameful to Europe. Hungary, a member of the European Union, has just adopted a new homophobic, resolutely homophobic, violently homophobic law. A law that prohibits the representation of homosexuality in public space. A law that violates the values of the rule of law. This government of Viktor Orbán - let us not be afraid of words - increases restrictions, deprivation of rights and humiliation to the LGBTQI population. I remind you, Prime Minister, that already last December, I asked your colleague Foreign Minister about changes in the Hungarian Constitution, which were validating principles such as "the mother is a mother, the father is a man". Once again, a cruel, retrogressive and shocking vision of the family and sex education. This shocking and challenging vision is rooted in discrimination against persons belonging to sexual and gender minorities. Prime Minister, we are all here – at last, not all members of this Parliament, because some are really friends, supporters of Viktor Orbán! –, but apart from these, we are all at the side of thousands of protesters and human rights associations and LGBTQI people. We are all LGBTQI Hungarians today! Therefore, Prime Minister, does Belgium intend to call for the establishment of the rule of law procedure at European Union level, this cross-compliance mechanism which is supposed to protect the European Union from violations of the fundamental values set up by Commissioner Reynders?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip110x.u6	Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Viktor Orban continues his infernal and populist spiral of hatred. He pushes the nail of his homophobic crusade by prohibiting "the promotion of homosexuality". This law wants to eliminate from the sight, from the public space the very identity of homosexual European people and citizens. It also threatens their existence. I think we can solemnly say that a red line has been crossed. Europe does not want and cannot become the landmark of the far right, the landmark of Orban populism and the ideas of the LGBT free areas of Poland. Ladies and gentlemen, in the end, we must stand up everywhere against discrimination. Whether it is to free more than one million innocent Uyghurs from camps in China or to stand up to protect homosexual European citizens who are threatened because of their gender identity, their sexual orientation, we must dare say that no, that is not right! Prime Minister, I formally invite you to call the Hungarian ambassador to Belgium here to say frankly in his eyes: "No, this is not right!", and dare to raise the rainbow flag, this standard of freedom and diversity, at our embassy in Budapest because, yes, we have to tell this LGBTQI+ community that we are at its side. Finally, the Charter of the European Union is not there to decorate. Its rules must be applied. We must tell these tyrants and autocrats that, if they undermine our values of freedom and equality, they will pay the costs and face sanctions. In advance, thank you for your action.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip110x.u7	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, let it be very clear: in the European Union there is no place for homophobia and no place for discrimination against Igbtqi. As I said yesterday in the Consultative Commission on European Affairs: Holebi rights are human rights. Let that be the base. These are the foundations of our Union. Those foundations of our Union must not be touched on. Those are our core values. Respect for human dignity. Freedom. Respect for democracy. Equality. Respect for the rule of law. Respect for human rights, in particular minority rights. Democracy must not be reduced to the will of the majority. The main function of democracy is to protect the opinions, the orientations of minorities. It is there that one can see the quality of a democracy. This is also stated in the various EU constitutions, and that is what each Member State is expected to strive for every day, and is considered to put that into practice every day. The European Union is not a cash machine, of which you can say: I am going to collect the money, but the rules, I absolutely do not want to abide by them. That is not how we want the European Union to function. Europe is a club with clear rules, so there must also be a mechanism to ensure that those who do not respect the rules are forced to respect them. The European Union is not just a union of money; it is also a community of values. For our country, it has always been very clear that this community of values cannot be affected. I come to a number of things which we have already responded to and which we are going to do. The Foreign Minister, Mrs Wilmès, will raise this point at the General Affairs Council on Tuesday, which seems logical to me. In addition, our Minister of Foreign Affairs is in continuous consultation with other countries. Things have begun in the Benelux, but also in other countries, which have joined forces. The European Commission also has an important role to play in being the guardian of the European Treaties. We are going to question the European Commission with regard to its duty. I am also pleased to see that the President of the European Commission has expressed concern about this new law and is going to examine it in relation to the basic rules of our Europe. The rule of law mechanism has been established at the insistence of our country, among other things. It was the Benelux countries who always put that point forward and said that we needed something like that, because they already felt the mood. Indeed, certain countries, including Hungary, have been brought to the European Court because of the rule of law mechanism. We are now awaiting the judgment of the European Court on this matter, but let it be very clear, if we want Europe to function, if we want Europe to reflect the values that are ours, then we must have a mechanism to hit where it hurts. Touch where it hurts, that means: in the financial flows. Such a mechanism is necessary to ensure that our basic values, our core values, are respected. We hope, of course, that it will come into force as soon as possible. There will be a meeting of the European Council next week. We are concerting with other like-minded countries, and there are a lot of them, about the way in which we want to raise this issue. It is not because the rule of law mechanism is not yet ready that we should not send a very clear message next week. This discussion is essential. It is important that all Heads of Government and of State who are of the same opinion – and there are many of them – be able to express themselves as quickly as possible in order to implement this conditionality, which is fundamental to making the European Union work in the times we are living in.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip110x.u8	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your clear and clear answer. When a dictator like Orban attacks holibi rights in Hungary, he also attacks the holibi rights in Belgium. In advance, the role of the European institutions and, above all, of the European Commission must be strengthened in order to defend the fundamental rights and foundations of the Union. The Vivaldi partners support the clear position of you and the government. Holebis and other vulnerable groups must never be the victims of international political jousting. We must support the people there and protect them here too if necessary. For now, your mission is clear: protect the Belgian values, protect our European values. Real democratic parties are drawing the line here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip110x.u9	There is increasingly a problem of authority of the European Union itself. I have just asked Mr Cogolati what authority and what authority the European Union can still act with. However, she must do so in relation to other countries, such as China for his attitude towards the Uighurs, and Hong Kong, if one actually experiences the same thing in one's own cuisine, Hungary and other countries? We're gonna have to move on. Immediately after the rule of law mechanism was introduced, among other things, on our request, those countries were moved to the European Court of Justice. That means that, after the money was in, the execution of the rest has been postponed. We can't accept that. The principles underlying this mechanism must be strongly advocated. We can only hope that the whole of that Article 7 can be implemented as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip110x.u10	Prime Minister, I thank you from the bottom of my heart. Beyond the function you embody, you personally represent values. And it is your heart values that have also been expressed here. Through you, Belgium will, I hope, demand and obtain the sanctions necessary to respect the rule of law in the European Union. Poor, Jewish, black, Arab, immigrant, gay, LGBTQI+: why so much hatred? Why do they hate us so much? Being gay is not an invention of the West; it is a human and historical reality. To quote Morgan Freeman, the great American actor who was questioning a homophobic in these terms - and excuse me, by quoting him, for being at the limit of decency -: "I hate the word 'homophobia'. It's not a phobia. You're not afraid. You're just an asshole!"
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip110x.u11	Madam President, thank you for these very clear words both from colleagues and from you, Prime Minister. You're not the prime minister of any country! Our country, Belgium, was the first, ten years before France, in 2003, to legalize marriage for all, to legalize and recognize the right of transgender people, to legalize adoption for homosexuals, and we are proud of it. We have to say it. This is the pride of our country, Belgium! This is important because it does not say a word of consent and we must stop being silent. We must break this silence in the European Union. The silent majority must now stand up and stop discrimination.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip110x.u12	Madam President, Prime Minister, the difference between the previous set of questions is smaller than one might think at first sight. Legal principles, that's a broad understanding. Your coalition agreement states that democratic renewal is a priority. That's not a bad idea, because we see that trust in your federal government is lower than ever. In the meantime, the first few months have produced a proposal for a pandemic law which actually constitutes a kind of far-reaching situation of proxy law. This week, there was the repeated demand for Sciensano to release hospital records. Mr Gijbels has been asking for months. It is reported that the FOD has imposed an obligation not to share it. Yesterday in the Defence Committee, the lack of transparency went so far that even colleagues from the majority actually went into opposition mode to denounce it. Here was once an interplay addressed to you about a statement on television. When the interplay was filed, you left the hemisphere and you left it to someone else from your government to answer it. You're frowning the eyebrows. Perhaps your memory will leave you in the lurch, but it has happened. You have been present three times in the Committee on the Interior, so that in mid-June questions were put that were tabled in January of this year. Maybe it's the blow to the flare or the illustration. This week there was a press conference of a minister from your government, where he was physically present. Then he defended the same thing to Parliament and he did it digitally. He didn't even bother to move. In short, you said just now that democracy is more than the majority's work, but your government is making quite a few mistakes. My question is very simple. When does that phrase on parliamentary and democratic renewal enter into your coalition agreement? Can you tell us what day that will be?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip110x.u13	Mr De Roover, I am indeed available to Parliament. I take as an example the advisory committee on European affairs, where I have done a briefing and a debriefing for each European summit. There have been few governments that have entered into structural physical dialogue with Parliament before and after each European summit. We had three sessions in the Home Affairs Committee and a fourth was planned. Unfortunately, the latter has been cancelled by Parliament. That can happen. I don't point a finger at anyone. However, if you accuse me of not being available to Parliament, I think you should look at the facts correctly. As far as Sciensano is concerned, I have seen that an interplay has been tabled, probably by your group as well. The Minister of Health will answer that and I assume that you think it is normal for me to give him the forum to go down on that. As far as the Committee on Defence is concerned, I note that Parliament has finally been given access. That seems to me to be a good thing, because one of the roles of the Chamber is to control the government. It seems to me, therefore, that giving Parliament access should be the basic rule. You will understand, of course, that this sometimes has to be done with the necessary modalities. Minister Vandenbroucke will express himself on that. I come to the level of activity of Parliament and the government. In 2020, 7,500 oral questions were tabled, the highest number of questions submitted and answered in the history of this Parliament. That number is twice as high as it's ever been. If you were to speak to Parliament's highly valued staff, they would tell you that the pace of work is very high. That is a good thing, it is normal for us to ensure that Parliament works at full speed. However, do not come here to tell me that this government would not be available to Parliament. Then there's the pandemic bill. I have not yet seen many ministers who have said that they will consult with Parliament before anything is submitted to the Council of State. To be honest, I haven't seen much of that. If you say you want more of this, I can taste it and I will make sure that there is even more interaction than has been the case so far.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip110x.u14	Madam President, Prime Minister, I did not say that you never come to Parliament. So if you come to Parliament, it is not an answer to the comment I have made. I forgot to mention something in my list, because I always speak for myself without papers. I forgot to mention that your government is also rejecting the opinions of the Council of State manifesto. These are opinions that state that your government is violating the division of powers. You argue that you have found a text that indicates otherwise. Prime Minister, you are playing down the problem. The way in which the current government and the current majority deal with Parliament is unseen. I'm so sorry. We make a lot of proposals. No proposal shall be accepted by the majority. When you and the majority make good proposals, we approve them. You have an automatism that we may be able to break. We could table a proposal for a permanent power of attorney for you, and perhaps we could tempt your majority to support that proposal, so that Parliament, as laid down in the pandemic law, can go on permanent vacation. Maybe you qualify my argument as a hate speech. Within the coalition agreement, you can (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip110x.u15	Prime Minister, I would like to ask you a question about the visit of the President of the United States to our country this week on the occasion of the NATO summit. I read that other meetings were held. I stress the bilateral aspect and the good relations we wish to have with the United States in relation to both the trade agreements and the common values that we are defending. At the bilateral level, there are files that are dear to us as Europeans. I am thinking of COP26 or of financial and economic policies that we strongly defend. That is the only way Europe's weight will manifest itself. Prime Minister, President Joe Biden mentioned the idea of defending strong democratic values and human rights in the face of the rise of autocracies and populism around the world. More than ever, this is very important to do. What is your position on this? With regard to the NATO summit, we know that the contribution of European countries to NATO must be increased, certainly in view of the new challenges we are facing. What can you tell us? Finally, how can we, as Europeans, between these giants in the East and West (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip110x.u16	Prime Minister, President Biden's visit to our country this week has gone flawlessly. Thousands of people, policemen, people of the Defense Department, have worked for that. I'm sure it deserves a feather. The US is our main ally, alongside the European Union. We have a historical connection with that. We work together in economics, science, culture and so much more. In terms of security, too, we are very much counting on the US. They are there for us on land, at sea and in the air and also increasingly in cyberspace. You've met President Biden, and that's gotten you some nice pictures. That's probably good for posterity, too. So the shape is fine, but what about the content? I didn't read anything about that. The government website this week contained important press releases, such as "Enabel is looking for Moroccan start-ups" or "We are going to sign an Ocean Plastics Charter." Those are very nice things, but we haven't heard anything about the visit of the leader of the free world. Mr Prime Minister, I would like to know why that is. Can't we know the contents? What was discussed? How are we gonna work together? How are we going to build our transatlantic relationship in the coming years? We are looking forward to what has been discussed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip110x.u17	Madam President, I think the American President's visit has been very positive in many respects. First, NATO, a crucial alliance of defence for our country, and collective defence as well. For Europe, it is clear that a new breath has been given. President Biden has made this very clear. In the past, some had doubted the key collective defence element of the famous Article 5. For President Biden, who made it clear, this is a sacred obligation and a crucial element. This changes a lot from the past. Our country has spoken on a multitude of issues, including the fact that the NATO strategic exercise is complementary to the same exercise carried out within the European Union. If we want NATO to work well, it is normal that there should be a balance. This means that Europe must also get out of the shadows of the United States. Should we get out of the shadows of the United States because we have different opinions? No, not at all, because if we have the same opinions, we represent an incredible force in the world. However, it is not excluded that opinions differ occasionally, and then Europe must be able to stand a lot more on its own. The second dimension of the visit was the summit at European level. I think the sequence there is especially important. Biden goes first to the G7, then to Europe in Brussels, which confirms Brussels as one of the most important international hubs, and then talks with Vladimir Putin. So he first speaks to his allies and then talks to Putin. In addition, there was a bilateral section covering many topics. I do not have the time now to go into everything in detail and you will also understand that it is not the intention that all the subjects discussed should be fully explained in full transparency, but I would certainly like to give you the main themes. First of all, it was about the economy. We are important allies of each other. There are 900 American companies in our country and 500 Belgian companies are present in the United States. The maintenance of economic relations is essential and one of the important elements in it is the trade mission of our country which will take place later and go to Atlanta, New York and Boston. If circumstances permit, this mission will have a total of 400 Belgian companies. Economic relations are also becoming more and more geostrategic. We have often talked about the production of vaccines. Our country is a real world power in the production of vaccines, but if we want to be able to play that role, then trade must be as easy as possible. Invoking the Defense Production Act by the United States a few months ago did not make it easy. We have found solutions to this, but that has made it difficult to exploit our country's full production potential. The United States has now also adopted the CHIPS for America Act. This is important, because the production of so-called semi-conductors is becoming more and more strategic. Several companies in our country are down today because there is insufficient access to that knowledge. Our country has an absolutely crucial role in this area through Imec and through its relationship with ASML in the Netherlands. We have also, of course, also discussed our political objectives and the fact that one of the most worrying developments within NATO is a certain erosion of democracy. Like the European Union we have just talked about, NATO is, in addition to a protection mechanism, also in the field of cyber security, absolutely an alliance of values. Respecting certain values must be a unified objective between the United States and our country. Like you, Mr Freilich, I would like to thank everyone who made these summits a success. They are flawless and prove our country's expertise. I would like to take this opportunity to thank everyone in our country for the flawless way in which we have managed to organise this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip110x.u18	Prime Minister, I thank you – in a relatively short time – for having already communicated many of the information I expected with great impatience. I know that we will soon have in committee a debriefing on the NATO summit – which demonstrates your willingness to discuss important issues. I hear and agree with this absolute need to build a strong and united Europe, capable of facing the major geostrategic challenges on a global scale. This is essential, both within NATO and to address economic issues and in relation to the universal defence of human rights. Thank you for putting this essential character on the agenda again.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip110x.u19	Prime Minister, you have answered my questions. My group leader says that this does not always happen, but you have answered my questions, for which I am grateful. I'll come back to the cyber aspect I mentioned earlier. After his visit to Geneva, the US President made it clear to Russia that if it continues its cyber attacks against American companies, the US will not let that happen. I believe that, in this area too, we in Europe, here in Belgium, should now make a fist to those countries, China, North Korea, Russia, which are attacking our companies on a daily basis. We can also learn from the United States, work with it. For example, the US has a dedicated minister for cybersecurity. We should have them here, too. I said that last time, and I repeat it. Let's look together at what we can do with the United States against the daily cyber attacks on our companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip110x.u20	Madam President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the vaccination campaign is running like a train. Last weekend I saw the statistics of the European Union, which show that we are the champion in administering the number of doses per day. Cooperation with the Communities is progressing well. I would therefore like to pay tribute to all those who are committed to this. Day after day we see the pandemic figures fall. Infections are falling rapidly, as are hospital capacity utilisation; all of this is very positive. We have already had several phases in the fight against the pandemic. In winter we had to avoid the risk. We had to take tough measures to prevent people from dying or being hospitalized, and that was not obvious. In the spring a new phase followed, that of risk management. Then we sought a balance between giving back freedom and caution in view of the starting vaccinations. With the current figures, we will end up at a different stage in the coming summer, where we will have to put the logic fully into the freedom of people at some point: to give everyone freedom again and to make exceptions from the restrictive measures. This means that we must dare to evaluate the existing rules: do they still make sense or do we no longer retain them? However, a reservation must be made. In continental Europe things are going well, but in England the delta variant pops up, so that the infections are rising again, even though England is already further on with the vaccination campaign. Presumably you will build in criteria to determine when we come to the third stage and can fully give back freedom and the rules are exceptions. The Consultative Committee will meet tomorrow. You may also plan a meeting in the summer. When do you think we can go to the third phase in the fight against pandemics?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip110x.u21	Madam President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in a few days it will be formal summer, 21 June. We were so hungry for that summer. We owe it not only to the discipline of a large majority of Belgians, but also to the commitment of many professionals and thousands of volunteers, which means that we are at the top of Europe when it comes to vaccination. There is often talk here about things that are not perfect, and indeed, not everything is perfect, but it may also be said, if something goes very well. Prime Minister, people crave the summer. Families are important for cohesion in our society, just as it is important for their bubbles to be expanded. It is also logical to announce simple and unambiguous rules, Madam Secretary. What applies to families should also apply in the catering industry, so that deferred parties can take place, at home or elsewhere. Prime Minister, occasionally people we met on a walk told us that they had lost a partner, a friend, a family member, and that is dramatic. But that is happening in complete loneliness and must be said goodbye in a limited circle, makes it even worse. We are in favour of enlargement. The rules for the worships and family parties, at tragic and fun moments, should be somewhat aligned on those for the events. Every Belgian craves his vacation. You have good arrangements for green and orange zones. However, for red zones, full testing is required, i.e. two PCR tests are performed. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip110x.u22	Madam President, the questions were addressed to myself and to the Minister for the Interior, Mrs Verlinden. It is clear that the evolution of the figures is favourable. Today, the seven-day average of hospitalizations is 37. The number of people in intensive care is 236. That's 2.5 times lower than a month ago. That gives us a great deal of hope. What gives us a foothold underground is the vaccination. The vaccination campaign is going very well. We see that a lot of people have been vaccinated. 64 % of adults have already received a first dose and 36 % have received a second dose. The reasoning in our country has always been to align the measures with the protection of the most vulnerable. We have always defined the most vulnerable as people over 65 and people with an underlying condition. For the 65-plussers, 71 % received a second dose today. So that's very good. Why are we looking more and more at the second dose? That is because the example of the United Kingdom teaches us that those who are not fully vaccinated are still at risk of being hospitalized by variants. In the people with an underlying condition, 87 % received a first dose, but only 32 % received a second dose. That is why we must maintain caution in the coming weeks and the first weeks of July. Can we take steps forward to make our lives more free? Absolutely. Should we withdraw from people's private lives as much as possible with our rules? Absolutely. We have intervened for a long time with rules in it, because it was necessary, but the sooner we can withdraw now, the better. Should we withdraw the rules that intervene in very difficult times, when, for example, one loses someone? Absolutely. I absolutely agree with that. That will also be the work of Friday's Consultation Committee. We want to make the rules simple, to place as much emphasis as possible on our own responsibility and at the same time retain a piece of collective responsibility. We will not be safe until everyone who is vulnerable is fully vaccinated. This is not yet the case for the people with an underlying condition, but it will be the case in a few weeks' time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip110x.u23	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I say nothing wrong when I say that many people's expectations for the summer are rightly at least as high as the temperature of the last few days. It is therefore a good thing that the figures are moving in the right direction very quickly. We have had to wait a long time for that. The vaccination campaign runs like a train, I would even say as a express train, thanks to the efforts of local authorities as well as many caregivers and volunteers. We must be proud of these achievements. We run the rankings internationally. On 9 June 2021, we took a first important step towards the Summer Plan, which was welcomed with great enthusiasm but also with responsibility. It is good that we can now look forward to the next step on 1 July 2021. It is precisely on that that the Consultative Committee will decide tomorrow. We have for a long time asked people to cooperate very much in measures to restrict freedom. Now, with great confidence within the current framework, we can give back much more individual responsibility. That is why I shall be calling for a safe framework tomorrow. As the Prime Minister pointed out, the virus is not gone. The variants are also unpredictable. I will certainly argue for a framework in which more people can meet in the private sphere, and larger groups of catering, culture or sport can enjoy. Tomorrow the debate on closing hours will be on the table, also for the sake of law enforcement. We are looking forward to it, because if the Belgians are doing well, we will be able to enjoy it with many. We must not forget the young. We have asked them very much. They look forward to their summer camps and to as carefree a holiday as possible with as few rules as possible. As the Prime Minister pointed out, my main concern in writing the rules is that they become unambiguous and understandable. Tomorrow will be no different. That is why we will ask the Consultative Committee to make the rules as predictable and understandable as possible. Today we have to keep a lot of numbers in mind when we organise activities. It is good that we make the regulation as harmonised and as unambiguous as possible, so that people know what rules are still needed to keep the virus down. For holidays, too, we must tell our citizens how these can be carried out and what tests will be needed to do so. We must also discuss this tomorrow. Many people rightly make beautiful plans for the summer, a carefree summer in which we will be able to get normal life back on track as much as possible. To conclude, the virus continues to ask for caution, but as far as I am concerned, as from 1 July, there may be room for more freedom and the taking up of individual responsibility. I'm looking forward to that, probably with a lot of people.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip110x.u24	Prime Minister, Minister, we agree that once people over 65 years of age and at-risk groups are fully vaccinated, we will be at a stage where we must be able to take freedom as a principle, even if it takes longer than expected due to delays in deliveries. I am pleased to hear this in your reply: we are asking for responsibility, but freedom must definitely be the principle again. The motto for the meeting of the Consultative Committee tomorrow is clear, namely simplicity and efficiency of the rules. In the long run, there are a lot of rules in different circumstances, so we absolutely need to coordinate them, so that people understand them well. If limits are imposed, we must ensure that they still make sense. For example, I hear proposals to be allowed to shop with eight people, but nobody does. That is not a sensible limit. Mr De Roover, if the limit to inviting people into the garden, with or without catering, is 50 people, few people will actually invite such a large company. The question then is whether we should retain these limits in the long term. So we ask for simplicity and efficiency, so that people understand the rules properly, for a pleasant summer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip110x.u25	Prime Minister, Minister, simplicity is achieved by uniformity. This uniformity must apply in our country, and if it is possible to do so, especially as regards travel, also in Europe. Then everyone knows what they're up to. When you travel by car, you cross different countries with possible different rules. This makes things complex and, if uniformity is possible in this area, I would argue in favour of it. You also mentioned your own responsibility, and we agree with that for 100 percent. If we all assume our responsibilities, then there is also collective responsibility. The reward will then be full freedom. Let us strive for this, with objective figures and standards. If the numbers get worse, we can reset if we need to.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip110x.u26	Minister, you are the man in the wage freeze, the man in the 0,4 percent. On Tuesday, you proposed to the Council of Ministers that your government vote a royal decree to set "the maximum margin for the evolution of the wage cost for the next two years at 0.4%". You will understand that I was not only surprised, but angry that you were imposing 0.4% for the next two years. Especially since the president of your party had assured that you would not vote for this royal decree without a social agreement between employers and trade unions. Today, this agreement is not on the table. Trade unions are currently organizing a consultation of the base. You are constantly saying that you want to respect social consultation, but, in fact, I don't know how you consider it. You decide to impose a royal order while we are busy consulting the base, the workers. But maybe you're afraid of that base? Actually, I've got some field trips. I know people don't agree with that. A basic consultation, maybe you don't know what it is. I, as a trade unionist, have known this. It is a democratic process that takes time in a country like Belgium. Minister, I have two questions for you. Why did you decide to adopt, at first reading, this royal decree when social consultation is not over? Can you confirm that if the union base does not agree, you will not sign this royal decree at second reading?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip110x.u27	Indeed, Madam Member, this Tuesday, at first reading, the government adopted a series of texts to prepare for the implementation of the agreements between union representatives and employers, as well as the elements contained in the government's proposal for mediation. In addition to the welfare envelopes designed to raise the lowest allowances, such as the lowest pensions, there is this wage standard. This salary standard has come into force under legislation, I repeat. Does that enchant me? No, of course not. Like others, Madam Member, I am at the side of those who are calling for the revision of this 1996 law that governs wage developments. I must note today that the political conditions for achieving this are not in place. And unlike you, Madam Member, I am not prepared, for that reason, to sweep away the progress achieved in other areas. As trade union leaders consult their base on the basis of the agreement they have negotiated, I am once again dismayed to see your party blowing on the embers. As usual, you ignore the positive elements of an agreement, such as the increase in the minimum wage, the prolongation of simplified temporary unemployment - in order to limit the consequences of the crisis, as requested by delegates and field representatives - or the pre-pension, which will allow Roger, construction worker, 60, 33 years of career, to benefit from an early retirement with a supplement from his employer. The same goes for Stephanie, who has been working for years at night. I could also tell you about the end-of-career jobs that will allow 55-year-old Denis to reduce his working time in order to have an easier end to career by working part-time. So this may not be significant to you, but it is significant to all Roger, Stephanie and Denis of this country. To confide in you, Member, it also affects me personally. Indeed, it is not because I present myself in front of you with a suit and tie that I forget who I am and where I come from. I don't forget that I didn't know either of my two grandfathers, one railwayman and the other factor, both of whom died at 59 and 51 years of age, tired because of difficult working conditions. I don't forget that, MP. Nor do I forget that we probably have different views of political action and of politics. I do it in a government, I fight in a government to get progress, to get it. I didn't decide to break into the opposition without getting anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip110x.u28	Minister, you are not answering my questions! I had two questions for you. I'll start with the second. Your party president said you weren't going to sign a royal decree if there was no agreement between bosses and unions. This agreement is not here! Why did you sign it? Despite your tie and my respect for your grandfathers, the workers do not expect a socialist minister to impose a wage freeze in a Vivaldi government where the MR is at your side. You don't impose yourself as the left man you claim to be. As far as progress is concerned, we are the party that supports all the social advances achieved in the struggle. You're talking about the minimum wage. Yesterday, I had Erika online - service title worker. She was disgusted. In the pre-arrangement of the minimum wage, there is no provision for an increase for her, because her minimum wage is not yet low enough for her to obtain it. That man who's gonna get his pre-board at 60, before you were here, it was 59 years old. Do you understand? So your progress (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip110x.u29	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, on 22 April I questioned you here in this hemisphere about the increasing violence on public transport. I then referred to the stations, platforms, trains and violence against SNCB staff and against rail passengers. I was also talking about train escorts and I'm going to quote what I literally said at the time: "A definite fact is that train guides are practically powerless. They can ask for assistance, but only rarely will there be immediate assistance. Sometimes one has to be patient until the train stops a few stations further. The situation has often escalated and the perpetrators have disappeared." Those were my words back then, but last week we were once again confronted with young Brussels people making amok, and this time the chosen place was the recreation area De Blaarmeersen. They are then put on the train in Ghent by the police towards Brussels. Only those kids think they're still in a recreation area. So they don't sit well on the train but continue to amok against train escorts, against train crews and fellow passengers. I have not read much about this in the press in recent days, but I have received some messages from SNCB staff. I'll read you a little bit from a message from a SNCB member of staff: "In recent weeks, we have been flooded again by ethnic scum (young people), which sets the scene in coastal cities and recreational areas. After the intervention of the police, these amokmakers are simply put on the train home, mostly without a ticket, sometimes in first class, and usually still in an aggressive mood. Train escorts are advised by the police to ask for an intervention at the next station, if they are ambitant. In the following stations there is often no assistance." The staff member concludes: "The problem appears to lie mainly in the case of serious staff shortages, both in the railway police and in the case of Securail (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip110x.u30	Madam President, Mr Toventors, any case of aggression or violence is too much. Aggression on trains is always unacceptable. A train is a pleasant environment where you can work, enjoy the landscape, talk. It has to stay that way. Through social media I have heard that there were incidents in the vicinity of Ghent and that today there were police checks at the station of Gent-Sint-Pieters. I read that people were obliged to take the train back if they didn't have a reservation for the Blaarmeers or identity card in their pockets. I have asked for more information from the services concerned. I remain cautious at the moment and will not take a final position on this. The subject of your question was very vague, but we can certainly come back to this in the Committee on Mobility, Public Enterprises and Federal Institutions. If we want to make the train the backbone of our mobility, this must be an attractive alternative or an addition to other means of transport. Feeling good as a traveler, comfortable and safe traveling is a basic condition of freedom of movement. Physical violence is always unacceptable, especially against train drivers. I've already said that here. On the other hand, I will never accept the stigmatisation of certain groups of people. Looking for guilty people by targeting groups of people based, for example, on their origin, religion or prevention, I can never allow. SNCB lets the train run for everyone. The statistics do not at present show us a demonstrable increase in the number of cases of aggression. Of course we must be vigilant about this, together with Securail and the people on the ground, such as train escorts and with the whole of SNCB. SNCB has also regularly recruited additional staff during the covid period. For example, for busy trains to the coast, a lot of additional efforts have been made, with the additional deployment of Securail agents, stewards and guards. Also in summer we will make a lot of efforts, so that everyone can travel safely and comfortably by train. Mobility is a freedom and as a competent minister, I will do everything in my power to ensure that each of us can enjoy it, on the track, on the road, on a boat or on an aircraft, on land, at sea and in the air, in all safety and respect. I want to give everyone, without distinction, the chance to discover our beautiful country in the best and safest way during the summer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip110x.u31	Mr. Secretary, you've come back with the familiar wiggle. You do not speak, remain cautious and stigmatize the messenger. What I hear in Parliament over and over again is a long way from practice. The Brussels ivory tower from the Rue de la Loi is opposed to everyday reality, as I have just read out of people who are active on the ground. The Flemish Interest asks you again to ensure a more effective safety service at the railway. Invest in people, staff and resources and make rail and public transport safety a top priority of your policy in the broad sense. That's where the accent should be. Please stop pampering and talking right to young people from Brussels. We already have Cd&V Minister Benjamin Dalle for that. Finally, trade so that SNCB's staff can work safely and so that all those who want to take the train can do so with peace of mind, without being harassed by ethnic rabble.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip110x.u32	Madam President, Minister, you have just received a very bad bulletin from the European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA). This is the worst of the European class. It could be smiled at if it was not aviation safety, that is, the safety of passengers, pilots and residents. It seems that your administration is simply unable to control the licensing and training of pilots. This is an extremely serious and serious problem. To that, I would add that this administration is also unable to enforce environmental standards. We see him every day. This is also the case for air routes. Indeed, it is today skeyes that defines the air routes and controls, in a way, their application. There is therefore a controlled controller game from skeyes, which is quite disturbing. In your defense, you said, "It's the past." It's not me, it's the others! Except it got worse in eight months. You said half a truth in the press. You said things were known a long time ago, but they really got worse. We had never received that newsletter. I therefore ask you what you have done in eight months to ensure that we have an administration that meets the challenges of aviation safety, environmental control and the drawing of air routes around Brussels. I ask you today not to tell me that it is the past, but to tell me what you have done in eight months, in concrete terms, to stop us from sinking, and to avoid even more serious problems in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip110x.u33	Madam President, Mr Dallemagne, thank you for your question. First of all, I want to assure you that aviation safety is one of my priorities in a constantly changing sector. As it does on a regular basis, last March the European Aviation Safety Agency carried out a new audit of the Directorate-General for Air Transport (DGTA) within the Federal Public Service Mobility. The aim of these European procedures is to ensure compliance with complex legislation at air level, for the safety of all. That's normal. This recent audit identified major and critical non-compliances at the licensing level. Specifically, these include identified deficiencies in the monitoring of flight schools, instructors and pilot licences, with a significant backlog in the issuance of such licences. EASA's findings are very serious, unfortunately not new. They have been known since 2016. This is something that I inherited and pointed out as soon as I took office as part of my policy paper presented to Parliament in November 2020 and on which I have since worked with the Mobility FPS teams. When I read the findings of this audit, I first met with the Director of EASA last April to learn more about his assessment of the situation. I then took urgent action by activating an ad hoc crisis unit within the Mobility FPS and temporarily transferring workers from the FPS to the DGTA staff. But these urgent measures are not enough. That is why I have prepared an action plan that is currently under discussion within the government and that will be on the agenda of this Friday's government session. The urgent need is to strengthen DGTA structurally so that Belgium can meet its international obligations. Beyond that, I would like to implement a reorganization and support of the DGTA so that Belgium finally has a stable and efficient administration in the long term. In the face of an aviation sector that has suffered in this pandemic and is evolving at the speed of sound, my wish is to respond effectively to the challenges of aviation safety, the economic development of the sector but also to limit its environmental impact and the nuisances it generates for the residents. This EASA audit may paradoxically be an opportunity to accelerate the changes that are needed and that were in place. I have no doubt that the government will follow me to that end.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip110x.u34	Minister, "major and critical non-conformities", the case is very serious. I'd say, half-forgiven fault. You admit that you knew from the first day, but that in fact, you have put in place measures very recently as a result of this audit. Yes, you said it! "But these urgent measures are not enough," to use your words. It is high time to take action to meet the challenges. I hear you today expressing new intentions. I will be very vigilant, because it is not the first time I hear similar ones. I will be so for our safety, for environmental issues, for the overflight of the residents, for the passengers and also for the air routes. I'll come back and ask you about what you've done, so that our security is finally guaranteed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip110x.u35	Madam President, Minister, we are at full speed on the road to freedom, a freedom in which we are truly safe. We are almost there, all thanks to a smooth course in almost all vaccination centres which, as may be said, are largely voluntary. Many people have not yet been fully vaccinated. They've had a first shot and they have an appointment for a second. That goes for many Belgians. It is therefore only logical that the government, after working at home and after keeping away from family and friends and after home education to children or grandchildren, should now do something about it: two free PCR tests for those who have not yet been vaccinated, can be used freely. As a movement, we are particularly satisfied that this has been achieved. It also shows that we are united in solidarity. It is very clear what these tests mean for many people: a safe summer vacation, a carefree enjoyment of their free time. That's more than necessary after that long winter. However, this safe holiday also puts pressure on the testing. Is that test readily available? Will I receive the results of my test before I leave on vacation? GPs are also asking questions. Will they have to provide those tests? What does that mean for their practice? Minister, people have logical questions and you can help them make their holidays a success and get their plans done. Can you reassure people? Will there be a test available for them? How do we guarantee them that they'll get the results of that test before they leave abroad?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip110x.u36	Minister, as has already been said, the holiday is in sight, and for many it will be a relief after a year and a half of the corona crisis. vacation at last, finally on the road. But unfortunately it will not be a holiday as we are used to. It will not be a carefree holiday, because we will have to prove that we are healthy, or at least that we do not have a corona, before we can enjoy a foreign sun-drenched beach. The long-awaited corona passport is a fact, and so we all go to the test centers or the GP for a test. However, we know from experience with the various peak moments of this pandemic that the test capacity also has limits. Either it pops into the centers, or it pops into the labs, or the computer doesn't want to go, it was always something. Minister, construction leave begins in mid-July. That is also the period when most people have planned their holidays and want to travel. Summer is also the time of the festivals, and this will require a PCR test. At the beginning of June, the general practitioners already made the alarm. They warned about the overload of general practice, testing centres and labs at peak moments. Minister, I have two questions for you. First of all, will our people who want to enjoy a carefree and well-earned holiday abroad get their necessary PCR test in time? Secondly, will people who are really sick or who have had a risk contact be able to go to the GP, or find a place in a test center?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip110x.u37	Minister, we have known since the fall of 2020 that advances in vaccination would not detract from the importance of the testing strategy. I have had to ask you more than 15 times about this issue and the multiplication of testing, antigenic testing, its accessibility and the health professionals involved. You said to me for months, "We'll see later!" You can imagine that yesterday I was surprised, but I'm glad we're finally moving forward. Since October 2020, the Royal Belgian Academy of Medicine has validated the antigenic tests. You seem to change your mind today and now you want to move forward quickly. This is great news because we are gradually finding our freedoms, but they are conditioned by testing and vaccination. Only about 30% of Belgians are fully vaccinated to date. To travel, to participate in cultural and sporting events, to go to school, to work, it takes testing, but we have not yet decided to expand this antigenic testing legally in the 4,700 pharmacies in the country. Minister, do you confirm your willingness to allow pharmacists to perform the antigenic test? If so, within what time frame? Given the urgency and the introduction of Belgian and foreign certificates requiring and authorizing antigenic testing, how soon will this finally be possible? In this regard, if you wish, if you want me to give you a lead, I have here our bill which is ready - tabled since March - and which specifically provides for this device allowing antigenic testing in pharmacy. It will therefore be enough for us to adopt it, and I am of course at your disposal in order to help our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip110x.u38	Madam President, Minister, allow me to be personal for a moment. Mr Dermagne became one earlier. In April 2021 I stood here arguing for relaxations for outdoor events. You are well aware that we then had the debate on the opening of the terraces on 1 May 2021. The opening ended on 9 May 2021. You probably remember them forgave me for my civil disobedience when I opened the terraces on 1 May 2021. Minister, your response is forgiven. You declared, not in the hemisphere, but for the whole of Flanders on TV, that I was extremely cowardly. I repeat the words "extremely cowardly." I can take insults. I'm not even against it. I'm in favour of absolute freedom of speech. The day before yesterday, on 15 June 2021, I read the following from someone from your entourage, a member of the GEMS, the group that advises you on the management strategy. The person concerned is biostatist Geert Molenberghs of Hasselt University and Leuven University, where you have also been a professor. What do I read about that person? We already know the effect of the reopening of the terraces on 8 May. She didn't have a negative impact on the numbers. On the contrary, Minister, perhaps there was even a positive effect. After all, it is better that people are sitting outside on the terrace in safe conditions than they are at home in unsafe conditions. I have advocated this here and given figures and statistics. You described me as being extremely cowardly. Tomorrow you will have a Consultative Committee, on which you can make up for that, not personally, because I do not care. You can drop some silly measures, such as the ban on playing billiards at cafés or bird dick. You can make up for that and make sure that more people can go outside and benefit from their freedom.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip110x.u39	Mr. Minister, the holidays are on their way. Many Belgians have left or are about to do so in the coming days. Testing centres, labs, hospitals and general practitioners are besieged by requests for PCR tests. They may even be saturated very quickly. For weeks I have been asking you about the organisation of rapid antigenic tests for holidaymakers travelling to countries that accept such tests. They offer only benefits in this context: their speed, the immediacy of the results, greater comfort, their less invasive and less expensive character, a less saturation of the testing centres. For weeks, you've been sweeping my proposal with a back of your hand. That was still the case last week right here, but be it! Minister, do you confirm your 180-degree turn on the model I suggested for travellers? If that's the case, that's good! Will these rapid antigenic tests be free of charge, like the PCR, whenever it is a traveller to whom vaccination has not yet been proposed? Will the results be encoded immediately? Will they be formally integrated into the European health pass, so as to avoid problems for travellers? Will they be accompanied by a rigorous communication on the conditions of entry for our fellow citizens and other travellers? For the sake of efficiency and in order to avoid trouble, this device must be installed quickly, because we have wasted enough time. Above all, it must be rigorously organized. I hope, Minister, that you will provide positive answers to my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip110x.u40	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are vaccination in our country at the speed of an express train. We're the fastest in Europe. That can also be said. We do this in cooperation with the regions, with the first-line zones, with the local authorities, together with the federal government and, above all, with the care staff and the many volunteers. A number of colleagues have already said it. The vaccination centres are mainly based on the use of the many volunteers. Tonight, a number of people, perhaps not you and I, are going to watch the European Union together on a terrace, provided, of course, that certain security measures are observed. We also look forward very much to that well-deserved holiday. It's been hard on everyone. Lots of people crave a little vacation. It seems that this will also be possible. The corona certificate has to help us do that. There are a number of conditions for getting the corona certificate. The most important condition is that one has to be fully vaccinated. There will also be people who will not have had this opportunity. That's why you're right to ensure that these people get two free tests. It is, of course, the same care staff who have to take the tests. Will there be enough people? They've been under a lot of pressure for a long time. That's why I'm worried. Minister, what preparations have you made to provide sufficient testing capacity? Will these results be available sufficiently quickly? What measures do you take to keep the workload on the people who have to take the tests manageable? People can apply for the two free tests via a platform. What's the status of that platform?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip110x.u41	Mrs Fonck, Mr Dedecker, it is a matter of doing the right thing at the right time. I did not have the impression that Professor Geert Molenberghs was a great supporter of the reopening of the terraces on 1 May, but that is a debate from the past. The same applies, of course, to the broadening of testing possibilities. We have indeed done so step by step. I realize that some people have been advocating certain broadening of the test capacity we offer for months, but we are doing this step by step, because we want to do so under a number of conditions and with caution. I shall now give specific answers to the various questions. We will indeed offer a free PCR test twice to people who have not had the opportunity to be vaccinated twice. That possibility will be available from 28 June at the latest. So far, I had spoken with caution about July 1st, but it will be possible to get the code that allows you to get such a free PCR test by June 28th at the latest. That is a first very important fact. We work very hard with the Coronac Commissioner, in consultation with the sector, to increase both the test analysis capacity and the reduction capacity. We believe that the test analysis capacity for PCR tests is not a problem. We are now going to a test analysis capacity of 150,000 tests per day. We still have some concerns about the capacity to decrease, because that is not so easy. So we are discussing with the sector to make the capacity to decrease as much as possible, but I think we can do that. We will also ensure that people, for example through the site minehealth.be, know very well where they can have a PCR test carried out everywhere on land. We are aware that for some reason some people have not thought about the PCR test in good time or have not gotten to it in time, and that is why we will allow the pharmacists who so wish to carry out rapid antigen tests in the pharmacy from 12 July. That is not an obvious operation, because it must be done in safe conditions. Those pharmacists must also be given a certain level of training and we will do so on a voluntary basis. I hope that between 15% and 25% of the pharmacies will join that story in the course of July. From mid-July onwards, a rapid antigen test can be carried out in the pharmacy, which is then immediately recorded. It's not supposed to make that quick antigen test free. On the one hand, we must show some budgetary caution and, on the other hand, we do not want to organise a rush at the pharmacies for free rapid antigen tests. There are already free PCR tests and the rapid antigen tests are an additional solution for people who for some reason could not have a PCR test taken in time. Ladies Fonck and Taquin, it is indeed important that the results of the rapid antigenic test be immediately recorded in the covid certificate that must be used in order to be able to travel in Europe. Some basic conditions must be met: a short basic training for the pharmacist on how to carry out the tests, the pharmacy must have an appropriate and well ventilated space to carry out the tests and the pharmacy must be able to immediately send the test result to the Sciensano database so that these results can be downloaded quickly on the traveller's covid certificate. Starting July 12, this will be possible in a number of pharmacies but not in a free way. Finally, I would like to express my concern with regard to the general practitioners. General practitioners should especially be responsible for people who have symptoms of covid or other diseases. Especially for these people, they have to be ready to take tests. So we want to organise a reduction capacity that allows people not to go to the general practitioner for a test they need to travel. I'd like to make a call here, too. If people want to make an appointment with the general practitioner for a test that actually serves to travel, please respect that the general practitioner also has a lot of other work, respect that it is not a simple time for general practitioners, and that there is a lot of administration involved. GPs have been working their asses off for over a year now. It is absolutely necessary to respect this. In short, people will be able to enjoy a great deal of freedom this summer, but they will have to plan the decline of the test in their journey. We will offer every opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip110x.u42	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. With a method that promises results within 72 hours, the summer will not be too stressful, not for the people, of course not for the labs either. We are convinced that the corona virus will gradually emerge and that it will be a shining summer thanks to the measures that this government has taken and is still taking.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip110x.u43	Minister, I would like to hear you say that more capacity will be provided and that the general practitioners must be there for the sick. However, allow me to doubt the fact that all of this will go smoothly, because in all the corona crisis there was nothing to worry about, and there were problems everywhere. I can already hear people saying that they can't record an appointment in a test centre for their period. If they can get a test, will it, as you promise, be free? You're talking about June 28th. We hope that from then on it will be possible to download that code and get that test for free, because the system is still in preparation, while people are already travelling. Minister, I sincerely hope that those who want to travel will get a PCR test in time. And I also hope that those who are ill will also get to the doctor. So provide enough people, sufficient testing capacity or the so-called empire of freedom becomes a Kafka nightmare.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip110x.u44	Minister, this is great news! I'm happy with what you're announcing today. I've been sensitive about this for months. It took time; I understand that in the midst of a crisis it is not always obvious to make decisions, but this is the right one. It will allow citizens to have access to the tests at their pharmacists, i.e. with a certain proximity and accessibility. Pharmacists will be trained, but I know that many pharmacists have already trained in the use of these tests. Thank you for listening. Thank you for our citizens. We are precisely contributing to the enlargement of this testing strategy which we will still need in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip110x.u45	Gouverner, c'est prévoiris a wonderful proverb, Minister. If you propose measures, you will know what is to be provided. I certainly didn't expect an apology either. Some people, such as Professor Molenberghs, have got the insight to say that they were wrong and that they should have left the people out. I expected you to see that, rather than blame me. I am delighted to be right and to be able to say that to you, not only in your capacity as Minister, but also as Master Vandenbroucke. You forget you've locked people up. You forget that you have prevented people from going outdoors, despite all kinds of scientific studies, from Harvard to Canterbury. You have prevented those people. You forget that you prevented people in the hospitality industry from making money and at that time you even blamed yourself, while the professors from your area today confess that this was a wrong decision. I expected that from you, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip110x.u46	Minister, your answer is a half-tone response with a delay and rigidity in the model that you explain to us. First, a PCR test will be free but only starting June 28. So, too bad for the Belgians who went on vacation before! For example, so bad for students who leave immediately after the end of their session! Frankly, I don't understand. Then, rapid antigenic tests, there will be, but only from 12 July and, in addition, without free, while these tests are faster, less invasive and are accepted by a range of countries. Allow people to do two quick antigenic tests this summer rather than achieve saturation for PCR tests that are essential for a whole series of people! Making decisions at the right time, Minister, is taking them early enough when we have all the scientific evidence and we can anticipate the organization to be ready in time. On this aspect, you have failed!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip110x.u47	Minister, thank you for the news that the platform will be ready by 28 June. There are indeed people who leave on 1 July on vacation. There are also people who leave early. For some, of course, it never comes in time. Those are usually those who have been asking for drastic relaxations for months. I think we have already seen that they would not have been wise. I am therefore pleased that this government accepts its responsibility. This government also keeps its word: it promised the platform by 1 July. It'll be there. So I want to thank you. It is also good news that you are taking a number of measures to increase the test capacity, including through the pharmacists. I have seen a pharmacist in this Chamber who was also grateful for that, I had the impression. I am sure a lot of pharmacists are prepared to cooperate. Thanks for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip110x.u48	Madam President, Minister, just a month ago, I was asking you about the call for help made by nurses, exhausted by their workload, but also tired of the lack of consideration they are entitled to, despite 16 months of fierce struggle against the pandemic. At that time, your answer was quite reassuring: "Don't worry. There is the White Blouses fund to recruit additional staff, and the social agreement to raise salaries as early as July 1st." You also announced the creation of a working group to work on the attractiveness of the nursing profession. Today, however, there is still concern, and it itself is inflating. Indeed, after the nurses of the intensive care services of the Erasmus hospital last week, it is now the turn of the nurses, and even of the entire hospital staff of the Hainaut and the Walloon Brabant, to be on strike. Why? Because your measurements don't pay off. The White Blouses Fund creates too few jobs and the budget provided for in the social agreement still does not improve working conditions. As for your IFIC Baremic Reform, which is based on function and no longer on diploma, it traps nurses, and in particular nurses specialists. Minister, are you now in a position to ensure that the White Blouse Fund is given priority in the recruitment and training of additional staff? How many jobs do you intend to create in the end? What's the status of your famous nursing task force? Who's in it? What conclusions has it already drawn? What are the measures on the table and when will they be implemented? Finally, are you going to go back to this famous IFIC reform or, at the very least, to provide guarantees for nurses who would remain subject to the old system, and who deserve to see their specialization upgraded?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip110x.u49	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, for a long time and for too long now the nursing staff has been crying out for their exhaustion, their suffering, their lack of recognition. The covid crisis went through that. For a long time there was applause from the population, every day at 8 p.m. There was also significant support through the social agreement concluded in the summer of 2020 to improve wage conditions and also working conditions: a social agreement that this government is committed to implementing. This government, which has also committed itself to persevering the famous White Blouses fund worn from its creation until a few weeks ago by my late colleague and comrade Marc Gobelet for whom I am now moved to think. The covid waves followed each other. Applause has given way to indifference, but also a few times, to violence against this staff, always present, always at the front, always mobilized and always there for us. Today, as the situation improves, the pace does not decrease and it will clearly not decrease because of the need to resume post-crisis care and because the cruel shortage of staff is still being felt. In this difficult context, there is also this cruel lack of consideration. It's hard! Very hard. It's violent for all our heroes. So much of the healthcare staff of French-speaking hospitals is on strike today everywhere: in Liège, Waremme, Bertrix and Brussels too! It is historical and the mobilization is such that requisition orders fell yesterday until 11 p.m. Minister, your government is committed to supporting health care workers through significant budgets. What about the implementation of the White Blouses Fund on the ground and the commitment of additional arms? The long-awaited salary recovery and the IF-IC are important, but as you know, some nurses will be on the job and will have nothing. Are discussions still under way so as not to leave them on the side? Thank you, Minister, for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip110x.u50	Minister, the grunt goes up among caregivers, in hospitals, but also among home nurses. I understand the anger and discouragement of nurses and caregivers. Last year's applause is so far away. Many promises, terribly publicized, have been made. Yet governments have still not understood that tens of thousands of nurses are missing in Belgium and that their workload has been increasing, as has the burden of care. They still did not understand that there was an urgent need to improve the attractiveness of the nursing and nursing profession throughout the career. Let me put six leads on the table: - salary revalorisation; - a supplement to correct the new IF-IC model, which plans the salaries of specialized nurses; - recognition and valorisation of these specializations; - the challenge of working overtime; - an increase in supervisory standards; - recognition of the tenability of the occupation for the pension. These are urgent measures to be taken for caregivers, but also - let us recall - for all patients and the quality of care. Minister, are you going to explore these leads? What is the status of decisions in the caregiving and nursing sectors? Finally, what is the timetable for the goals to be achieved very quickly?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip110x.u51	Minister, this week, again today, hospital staff are in action. Sixteen months after the start of the pandemic, many are exhausted but determined to be heard. I tell you about a nurse's testimony: "On Thursday, I strike for the first time. If I had any hesitation, my day at work erased them. No, what I've been through today is not normal. It is not normal to be the only nurse for half of a service, with patients on respirator, bed rest, grabatary, with drains, wounds, care. No, it's not normal for a sick, anxious, dependent person to see us only fifteen minutes on the day, in a wind, then return to his loneliness because visits are still not allowed. No, it's not normal to say: either, I do the hygiene care, or, I do the dressings, because doing both is not possible. I put myself in the place of patients and I am ashamed of the lack of humanity, the speed, the oblivion, the mistakes, the atmosphere. Our values are benevolence, respect, synergy, exemplaryness and excellence. That's why I'm fighting today." Minister, the lack of staff remains staggering, and the race for cost-effectiveness in hospitals is taking over and putting workers under pressure. It seems that the White Blouses fund to hire additional staff is not always used properly by hospital managers. The misunderstanding of part of the staff is added to this, those for whom the new IFIC classification system does not represent by upgrading, despite the government's promises in this regard. What are you going to do to make sure that the money promised and given to hospitals today is used to really ease the workload? Will you ensure that all staff can benefit from an upgrade?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip110x.u52	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the healthcare staff deserves not only our gratitude, our respect but also very concrete and robust support. Important political actions exist. The government has allocated as much as EUR 500 million to improve the wage conditions of healthcare workers. I know that there is confusion – and this is the first element of the debate – about the reform of IFIC, namely the classification of functions. So I'm going to repeat what I said last week. No one is obliged to enter the IFIC model. By July 1, 2021, nurses must choose whether they choose the IFIC model or whether they decide to stay in the old system. Everyone will receive a simulation on request to compare the current situation with what the IFIC promises or does not promise. Anyone who realizes that he is a loser in the simulation can simply decide to stay in the current system. I'm adding another important element. If, at some point, the social partners decide to adapt the IFIC system and this becomes more advantageous to them, they will always be able to choose to switch to IFIC. In conclusion, no one loses with this reform and, therefore, the phrase "raboter" that I have heard here does not really apply. No one loses with the IFIC reform and we are investing half a billion euros in improving the wage condition. On the other hand, it is clear that caregivers are tired and need to breathe. That is entirely legitimate. He's been working a lot all year. He did not hesitate to work overtime. Psychologically, it has been and still remains very heavy. It is therefore very important that hospitals organize themselves so that staff can take the leave to which they are entitled. Parliament has created the White Blouses Fund, which is now structural support. Each year, €400 million is made available to hire staff. It's a reality. You know very concretely that the priority now is to hire a full-time equivalent by care team or hospital function, which is to say that there is a clear and significant improvement in coaching standards in practice. So I really encourage hospitals to use these means and deploy all their energy to hire nurses. The time is right; the new graduates will arrive. Some of them already have a place. We must now attract those who have not yet signed a contract. I repeat that the means are there and that hospitals can use them. Attractiveness is a major element on which we also plan. It's a good job, but many problems have to be caught up with the body. It is important to ensure that staff are attracted to entering and remaining in the profession. A tripartite working group has been set up on this subject and has already met with the social partners. We are preparing a note that should serve as a starting point for addressing this challenge. Finally, Mr. Rigot, I have also had some feedback that the aggressiveness of patients and families is on the rise. This problem is not new but is less and less acceptable. Training on the management of aggression in hospitals is organised. Together with my colleague from the Interior, we must tackle this unacceptable problem, while reiterating our gratitude and respect for the care workers, nurses and nurses who are making enormous efforts in our hospitals.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip110x.u53	Minister, thank you for your answers, even though I admit that I feel like I'm talking to a wall. I've been asking you about the working conditions of nurses, burn-outs, depressions, departures from the profession for months. These working conditions really undermine the quality of care given to patients. Of course, nurses are heroes, but they are primarily human beings. Forgive me, minister, but it may be time to question you! Perhaps it would be time to tell you that your policy is ineffective because otherwise we would not be there, we would not be faced with a series of strikes and the requisition of nurses. As far as the IFIC reform is concerned, you say that nurses will have a choice. This is not a free choice because if they realize that they are losing, they will lose. Today, you do not offer any guarantee for a salary increase. With regard to consultation, I would like to stress that there are unions – and it is important to hear them – but there is also the nursing sector that is aware of its needs and the measures that must be implemented (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip110x.u54	Minister, this Thursday's strike is historic, and if we're here, it's because the staff is at the end of the roll. There's no need to tarry. We need to roll up the sleeves now to intensify the cooperation between workers and hospitals to allow for quick engagements, which also involve the hiring of students during this summer period, during which staff must also be able to rest. Answers are needed that allow staff to devote themselves to patient bedside care, to be able to take their holidays this summer and to be able to simply breathe. Finally, there is a need for a dialogue on the establishment of IFIC because it certainly offers pay opportunities to the majority of healthcare workers, but it also leaves a number of specialists on the tile and risks losing essential specializations for health care. Today, the government must carry out the actions it has committed itself to.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip110x.u55	Minister, you say that no one was obliged to enter IFIC, but the new ones have no choice! They are being imposed the new IFIC model. So, yes, there will be losers on the side of specialized nurses. Denying the evidence and reality as you do is a terrible slap for skilled nurses. A supplement to the IFIC is required to correct the device. You say that the means are there to hire, yet there must be nurses. There are thousands of missing and I recalled our leads to increase the attractiveness of the entire professional career. You're telling us you've made efforts. I had another nurse online earlier: a bonus of 980 euros? She received 300 euros. A consumer check? She received 53 euros. Lots of words, lots of words, lots of promises. That will not be enough. Acts, acts, acts, minister! They are urgent, and we need a real turn for caregivers and patients alike.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip110x.u56	Minister, first of all, I don't know if you really understand the anger of the caregivers. If they are back on the street today, it is because the situation is still unresolved. You say there will be no losers. At the same time, this means that there will be no upgrading for part of the health care staff. That too, after so many months, is not normal. You want to tackle the shortage, but today there are 17,000 nurses who are known to no longer work in hospitals, who have left their jobs because they could not, but also because their salaries did not match the work they provide. For these reasons, it is necessary to ensure that wages are really revalued. Secondly, with regard to the White Blouses fund, we have actually recruited staff in some hospitals, but in others this money has not been properly used, and it is up to you to ensure that this money is actually used to hire staff; it is your role as minister. Finally, you need to address the fundamental problem of hospital funding. Until this fundamental problem is resolved, we will always see a race for profitability, which ultimately penalizes both staff and patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip110x.u57	Madam President, Minister, the more we know about the PFOS pollution in Zwijndrecht, the greater the scandal. Hundreds of thousands of inhabitants may have been affected. The penalty is that alarm bells have been ringing for 20 years. In 1998, 3M, the company that produced PFOS for years, knew that there might have been a problem. In 2012 the University of Antwerp discovered PFOS in eggs. In 2017 Professor Jan Tytgat advises against growing eggs or vegetables in the area. As a icing on the cake we found out this morning that Bart De Wever had been informed since 2017. Everyone was informed: N-VA, Open VLD, CD&V. For years, those jars have remained firmly covered. No one thought it was necessary to inform neighborhood residents. Minister, the role of the Federal Food Safety Agency is unclear here. The BFSA says that there have been no problems with PFOS in the food chain so far, but says that it is necessary to review the standards. At European level, standards are much stricter. Why doesn't the BFSA take over? Secondly, the BFSA says that it was only this week informed of a possible problem in Zwijndrecht. How is that possible, with all those alarm signals going off for 20 years? If that is true, Minister, then there is something very wrong. Finally, there are also farmers nearby. They still don't know what to expect today. They're right to be worried. What will happen to their harvest? Will compensation be provided for affected farmers?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip110x.u58	Madam President, Minister, the people, farmers and local authorities near Zwijndrecht are concerned. I can't really blame them, because suddenly they weren't allowed to eat eggs from their own chickens or vegetables from their own garden. They've been doing that for years. Farmers are in their hands because they still do not know the impact on their products and the economic consequences for their farms. It's summer 2021 now and suddenly they don't like anything anymore. However, since 2017, there have been suspicions of possible health risks by PFOS in Zwijndrecht. Why didn't the alarm bells sound faster? This needs to be examined, of course, but it is essential to clarify the impact on health and food safety as soon as possible. We need to know what measures are being taken to ensure our health and food safety. This is not only necessary for the people around Zwijndrecht but for every citizen in our country. The problem of PFOS is, after all, a general problem. A new European report was issued last year, with stricter standards for the possible intake of PFAS via food. We must take that to heart. Minister, there is concern not only in Europe but also in the village street. After all, many local authorities now have many questions from anxious citizens. We understand that, because there may also be harmful effects on risk locations such as fire brigade training sites or military domains. That too must be clarified quickly. Mr. Secretary, was the BFSA already informed? What action has been taken? Europe has issued an opinion with new, stricter standards that still needs to be transposed into national legislation. What's the status? What will you do to give greater clarity to the citizens, the agricultural sector and the local authorities?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip110x.u59	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, I am following very closely the soil and water pollution in Zwijndrecht in the province of Antwerp. As you know, the environment is a regional competence. The questions on this matter must therefore be put to the Flemish Region. I myself am responsible for the safety of the food chain. So I will just answer your questions on that aspect. In 2008, in the absence of standards at European level, the BFSA defined action limits for PFOS on the basis of an opinion of the Scientific Committee. Since then, the BFSA has also carried out regular PFOS monitoring throughout the Belgian territory. The 450 samples of food analysed so far have not found any exceedance of these limits. As regards the situation in Zwijndrecht, because the Flemish Region itself did not take the initiative to contact the BFSA, the Agency itself contacted OVAM for a state of affairs. It asked OVAM to draw up a targeted monitoring plan for the infected zone. It hasn't received an answer yet. As of 14 June 2021, the BFSA has spontaneously carried out several analyses with the operators closest to the site. The milk from the nearest milk farm has already been checked. The results are expected in the course of next week. In addition, the BFSA has given instructions to the LCE, the local control units of the Zwijndrecht region, to include in their control plan a monitoring of the holdings, in particular the producers of milk, eggs and pork closest to the site, within a radius of five kilometres. It has also informed operators within 15 kilometres of the situation. In addition, the case was submitted to the Scientific Committee of the BFSA. This will deliver an urgent opinion on this dossier in the coming days. Based on the results of the local monitoring, the advice of the scientific committee and the information of OVAM, the BFSA will give clear instructions to the operators. With respect for European legislation and the principle of auto-control, they will have to take the necessary measures to ensure that their products meet the standards. With regard to private gardens and chickens, these depend on the local authorities, which will be informed by OVAM.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip110x.u60	Madam President, Minister, it is in this dossier, this scandal, which has potentially affected hundreds of thousands of people, that it is striking how concrete answers are repeatedly being avoided. We see that in the Antwerp City Council. We see that in the Flemish Parliament. And we see that again, with your answer, Minister. We get half-hearted answers to very specific questions. Was the BFSA aware of the PFOS pollution in Zwijndrecht, yes or no? I didn't quite hear it. I think you're saying the BFSA used to know. Then why does the BFSA explain the opposite in the press? It says that it has only been informed of a possible problem in Zwijndrecht in recent days. This has to be figured out to the bone. Enough is enough. We will continue until all the political responsibilities in this dossier are revealed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip110x.u61	Madam President, Minister, it is important that we now have clear and correct information, and that all the competent authorities, including the BFSA, take firm and transparent action. You say that they were not aware before, but the BFSA itself contacted the regional authorities. I've also heard something else in the media. It is therefore necessary to clarify once again who has informed who and when. That is absolutely necessary. Moreover, we do not need a game of blackmail, but we need clarity now and above all we need to know what measures need to be taken to ensure our health and food safety. After all, our health is our most precious asset. That must be our priority. We're all outraged by what happened in Zwijndrecht. This outrage must not stop here now. Above all, we must turn this outrage into action. That's why I'm still a little hungry. We know that there is a new report from Europe with stricter standards. These have yet to be transposed into national legislation. What are we waiting for to grab that and introduce these strict standards here? Our health is our priority. We really need to work on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip110x.u62	Madam Secretary, we sometimes tend to look at everything through political glasses in this hemisphere. The PFOS scandal in Zwijndrecht is, of course, primarily a problem of environmental pollution by harmful chemicals, which also goes far beyond the perimeter of fifteen kilometres around the old site of 3M. PFOS is in too high concentrations in our waterways, in our soil. Similar PFAS chemicals are still used in our industry and also in our products. That's what's keeping these substances all over the place. The bad thing about that is that we can't get them out and that they're harmful to all of us. That's problematic. Corona has shown very clearly that our health is inextricably linked to the world in which we live. Public health considerations can only be credible if measures are taken at the same time to protect the environment. This must also be prevented as a matter of urgency, rather than constantly cleaning up the ruins that some large companies leave behind in environmental disasters such as these. That's the story of asbestos, of DDT and now PFOS. Politics must play its role here, we must ban or limit dangerous substances wherever possible. We want a structural solution. Can you guarantee that from now on we will follow the European leaders, such as Denmark, the Netherlands and Norway without hesitation? In Denmark, there is a ban on PFAS in, for example, food packaging. Is it true that there is a link between the use of PFOS in Zwijndrecht and greenhouse gas emissions? How will you work with your federal colleagues, especially in agriculture, food safety and public health? Their commitment is, of course, also crucial in order to bring this story to a successful conclusion. Has the Flemish Government contacted you to discuss the efforts for a toxic-free approach?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip110x.u63	Colleagues, like you, Mr De Vriendt, and like any citizen who is concerned about people and the environment, I am shocked by the extent of this pollution. My thoughts go first of all to those living around who are worried about themselves and their children. As policy-makers, we must take this seriously at every level, from local to European. I have not yet had contact with my colleague, Mr Demir, who is probably too busy with crisis management. Hopefully, it will soon be able to prepare for the future so that such incidents do not occur again. I invite her to work together. We must learn lessons from the past, as I have said on several occasions. This means that Belgium fully supports the chemicals strategy for sustainability towards a toxic-free environment of the EU, within the framework of the European Green Deal. I call on the colleagues of the Regions to support me in this and the business community to use their innovative talents through design for reach. I would also like to quote Hans Bruyninckx, this morning on Radio 1: "The new European strategy for chemicals states that chemicals must become sustainable and safe in the future. With this you shift responsibility to those who produce and invent substances." He further clarified that "safe" refers to people and the environment and "sustainable" means that chemicals should be able to be involved in a circular economy. The latter fits perfectly with my call to the industry to use their innovative talent for a toxic-free environment. What concerns the emission of greenhouse gases by 3M, and in particular fluorescence gases, and the fact that this huge amount was not charged by the competent services in Flanders until 2018, my mouth fell open with amazement. As this is a non-ETS sector, I wonder to what extent this affects the reduction targets to be met by Flanders by 2020. I hope there are no other cases. This dossier alone shows that we are on the right track with the coalition agreement and the policy I am pursuing. We can't be vigorous enough.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip110x.u64	Madam Minister, you have stressed in particular the importance of a broader strategy for protecting our environment, and I am pleased with that. Clear ambitions regarding the use of PFOS and PFAS chemicals are needed. They must get out of our chain, out of our soil and our waterways. Flanders too must show ambition and cannot end up in one incident in another. It is a question of public health and then a structural approach is absolutely necessary. Today it appears that the summit of the previous Flemish government and also the mayor of Antwerp have been aware of the problem since 2017. This contrasts painfully with the people living around and the farmers who have been in the dark all these years, who have continued to grow vegetables and have kept eating their own eggs, without knowing what was going on. I have a word for that: criminal. They are the victims of a negligent policy. One must think of them. They need to be assured that the matter will be resolved and they need correct information because of the governments in our country and they know that they are no longer playing with their feet and their health.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip110x.u65	Madam Minister, the Israeli authorities have come to your attention with a report from their security services which shows that seven Palestinian organisations would have scammed our country and the European Union and that we could have financed terrorist activities in this way. Belgian money for Palestinian farmers, medical care, human rights and children would have been embezzled for the left-wing terrorist organisation Het Volksfront for the Liberation of Palestine, an organisation with blood on its hands, blood of civilians, blood of innocent children. You confirmed that our country, through partner organisations, has given money to at least four of the NGOs to fund projects in the Palestinian territories. I found it painful when I asked you about the amount of money that was involved. You mentioned an amount, you changed it again in committee and in the end your services changed the amount of money spent in the report. I am concerned about this, because if you, as a minister, do not know how much money is being given to whom, is there something wrong with the transparency of our spending? Can you give a complete overview of the Palestinian NGOs under suspicion who receive funds from our country? As far as the report itself is concerned, what is the state of the investigation? Do you think the Israeli government's findings are correct? Who's conducting the investigation? How thoroughly and independently does that happen? Finally, Madam Minister, what steps will you take to avoid the sloppy management and use of development money?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip110x.u66	Madam Minister, when your policy area comes into the media, unfortunately, that is not always in the most positive way. This recently revealed how Dutch development aid to the Palestinian territories came into the hands of the Communist People's Front for the Liberation of Palestine, the PFLP. This was done through all kinds of Palestinian NGOs, which acted as a front. You do not seem to be aware of this, because you have proposed that EUR 8 million of humanitarian aid be made available to the Gaza Strip. The organisations with which you want to cooperate raise major questions: they are exactly the same as the ones that have channeled Dutch funding to extremist Palestinian organisations. Through the NGOs Viva Salud, Brotherly Delen and Oxfam, as you said on the committee, our government cooperates with local aid organisations such as the Health Work Committee. Among other things, this NGO acts as a sham organisation and redirects western financial support to the extremist Palestinian People's Front. Madam Minister, you have indicated that in the last five years 660,000 euros have been donated via Viva Salud, 1.8 million euros through Oxfam and 1.3 million euros through Brotherly Parts. A total of EUR 6 million would have already been offered to help Belgian NGOs that may cooperate with terrorist organisations in the Palestinian territories. In view of the poignant stories about the Dutch development money to terrorist movements, will you suspend and recover the support to the NGOs involved, such as the Health Work Committee? How can you guarantee that no Belgian support money will be held by Hamas, as it is the only and omnipresent government in Gaza?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip110x.u67	Mrs Depoorter, Mrs Ponthier, your questions give me the opportunity to put things in the right perspective. First of all, let me make it clear that the resources for development cooperation cannot be used in any way for terrorist purposes. In Palestine we work together with various Belgian accredited organisations. I would also like to stress that all non-governmental organisations are screened externally before they receive subsidies. Organisations should also have evaluations carried out by external evaluators in the medium term and at the end. Like the other European countries and the European Commission, we have received information from Israel about alleged links between Palestinian organisations and the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine identified by the European Union as a terrorist organisation. I immediately asked my administration to examine in depth the elements communicated to us by the Israeli authorities before considering further steps. The investigation is ongoing and I've asked for it to be carried out thoroughly. I also had a discussion on this with the Dutch ambassador in our country. The Netherlands also has organisations that cooperate with the local partners mentioned in the recent dossier. The recent information provided to the Netherlands was reviewed by the Dutch Minister for Foreign Affairs. According to him, however, it does not provide any concrete evidence of links with the PFLP. Therefore, the Netherlands has not suspended funding on the basis of the file in question. Our Dutch colleagues are awaiting the results of a further investigation initiated by the European Anti-Fraud Office, OLAF. Another external investigation is already underway in the Netherlands, the final report of which is expected in the near future. Mrs Ponthier, the EUR 8 million, to which you refer, is intended for the affected populations in occupied Palestinian territory. That contribution has nothing to do with these allegations, it is allocated to the UN Humanitarian Fund OCHA. This fund is only accessible to recognised humanitarian organisations that meet the humanitarian needs of the local population. These organisations are bound by humanitarian principles and international humanitarian law. The local authorities are therefore not involved in any way in the decisions on the allocation of resources. Of course, the fund does not finance those authorities either. There is therefore no risk of indirect financing of Hamas in this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip110x.u68	Madam Minister, our group also wants solidarity for the Palestinian people. However, the dossier shows a lack of transparency and slowness. That's your responsibility. You refer to the Dutch investigation. It seems as if that reassures you a little. However, you do not reassure me. You don't have an external investigation at the moment. You're still waiting. Madam Secretary, a thorough investigation needs independence. The financial difficulties and scandals surrounding development cooperation have undermined the credibility of development aid, and that is a problem. When we expect our citizens to contribute in solidarity, you, as a minister, should be able at any time to indicate the means by which you finance what. You must then be able to refuse to finance terrorism. Madam Secretary, take action. Go for it and do something about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip110x.u69	Madam Secretary, you don't seem very concerned. That is not right for us. You state that you are awaiting a number of investigations and a number of external evaluators. What, however, remains to be investigated? After all, it is as ready as a cue how the fork is on the handle. You support exactly the same aid organisations as the Netherlands has already burned to. My party advocates a reorientation of the development aid landscape. Development aid and humanitarian aid should always go to the affected local population. The last thing we need to finance with our taxpayers' money is terrorist organisations such as the Palestinian People's Front. Nor will you tell anyone that the aid organisations in the Gaza Strip have no ties with the only and ubiquitous government in Gaza, which is Hamas. In my opinion, you believe in fables, if you think you can finance aid organisations there without supporting jihadists and communists. So take your responsibility and do not hide behind an unnecessary investigation. You must suspend and recover the financial support. That's what you need to do.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip110x.u70	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip110x.u71	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 16 June 2021, you have received an amended agenda for today's meeting. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 16 June 2021, you have received an amended agenda for today's meeting. Is there any comment on this? Are there any comments on this? Accordingly, the agenda was adopted. The agenda has therefore been adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip110x.u72	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs were Ms Thibaut, Mr Flahaut, Ms Thémont, Mr Vanbesien, Ms Zanchetta and Ms Merckx. They refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip110x.u73	Madam President, Minister, the first seven articles of the draft programme law concern articles of major importance to health care. We have made a number of comments on this in committee, but I would like to come back to that. This is a saving of EUR 102 million in the pharmaceutical sector that has been registered and now needed to be found. You have searched and you have found it, Minister, but, contrary to what we expect from a government with a government agreement, a policy paper and a policy statement, a vision that is applied and tested, we find here a search for means. I asked you how you managed to save 1.97 percent of the old medicines. In your reply, you said quite honestly that you applied the rule of three. That is very simple, so much is needed and so much is going to be achieved, but we all know that this is not the way to implement a policy on medicines and to develop a vision on this. This does not spell out a clear long-term health policy. After all, the challenges are great. We have had the covid crisis, there are many innovations and, of course, there are many patients who need help. Instead of looking at what could be a pharmacodynamic approach to the reimbursement of medicines, you have applied the rule of three. The same applies to the biosimilars. Actually, I was expecting a little more courage and action here, too. When I saw that this would save some EUR 10 million, I immediately noticed that there was no deep ground here. We have looked in the margins at where money can be made. You were also very honest about this, Minister. You said that there is now a smaller measure and that in the great exercise, which is yet to come, hospital funding will be dealt with, along with biologicals. They could make a lot of money available to our patients. They could be taken and viewed for more and newer therapies. Then I come to another saving that is registered, the BCR-ABL regulators or the tyrosin kinase inhibitors. Here you have subscribed EUR 11.7 million. The discussion refers to the fact that it is an approximate amount, an approach. You expect this to be saved. In the case of cancer therapy, however, the challenges will, unfortunately, be very great in the future, and we all know that. If we listen to specialists, one of the side effects of the covid crisis is that diagnosis is delayed. Diagnosis and preventive care have really suffered from this crisis, with all the consequences. A study has been carried out in England, where a very large excess mortality is predicted. I have not yet found such a study in our country. It would surprise me, however, that things are getting better here. Oncologists tell me that today they discover tumors that they used to find only in their course, because we had good preventive and diagnostic care. This one suffered under the covid period. Either dared patients could not go to the doctor for preventive studies. So you are going to save EUR 11.7 million with these tyrosin kinase inhibitors, instead of providing the EUR 11.7 million for the additional costs of the therapies of advanced cancers. There is no policy here either. There is no vision of how we will deal with this serious problem in the future. Good news is that you have said that we will have a debate on medicines policy. I welcome that and we will be partners in it. We will certainly make our contributions to this. Still, I'm a little worried. We will talk about the partial budget, Pay for Performance, the cluster refund of certain molecules, orphan medicines. These are all very interesting yards that we all have yet to work out. I have just reviewed several provisions of the bill. I see there again taking away things that may be better discussed when we do that great exercise. I am therefore concerned about your communication in committee, namely that we would all shape this pharmaceutical policy. I'd like to bring that up here again. It's an important exercise. I therefore assume that it is an exercise where the opposition's recommendations and amendments will be considered effectively. A future plan is needed. Then we must effectively dare to talk about therapy loyalty, medication review, Pay for Performance, fast refund that can be reduced. So we have a lot of work to do. We will abstain on this bill. There are a number of things that need to be effectively shaped. We do not want to stop it, but you said yourself that it is an estimate and a commitment. It's not what's to come. It is not your future plan, your pharmaceutical pact that you will have to close again. It is a pity, however, that there has not been a thorough examination here, that we have not taken or used any more time here to ensure that this budget is implemented in this way for a very important part of the policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip110x.u74	Colleagues, a program law is always a tote law or a pot-pourri, where you find the best and the worst. Half-measures are being taken, while more was hoped for, and technical arrangements are being made alongside very political decisions. I would like to address different subjects of this programme law: the Beliris Fund, road fines, the health aspect and the problem of small non-profit organisations. The indexation of the Beliris fund is obviously positive. The possibility of deferring unused funds to the following year is also positive. This should ensure better use of funds. On the other hand, we are less aware of the halt in indexing beyond this legislature. The reasons remain nebulous and this is obviously damaging. The second point concerns the way in which road fines are increased: in complete discretion, without looking like it. This raises the question since, on the pretext of establishing a fee linked to the cost of collecting fines, you increase by the same amount all the fines, whether they are high or low, whether the infringements are serious or not. In essence, you will hurt those who commit minor offences by negligence while you will barely tickle the perpetrators of serious and deliberate offences. I am thinking in particular of heavy speeding, burning red fires or excessive alcohol levels. This is not at all our conception of a good road safety policy. It is certainly effective in bringing money back into the state's coffers. This is clearly your objective, but it is not at all effective in enforcing the law. Nor is it effective in reducing the number of serious offences. You're acting softly. A program law falls well: neither seen nor known! We hide this in the middle of the rest. We don't communicate and we're trying to get through the road like that. As far as the health aspect of your project is concerned, I deplored in committee the lack of account being taken of the impact of pharma measures on hospitals and I repeat my point here. Clearly, there has been a lot of consultation with the pharmaceutical sector, but not with hospitals, when they are in a very difficult financial situation and the measures taken will have an impact on their financing. Hospitals, Minister, need stable funding pending the important reforms announced and to which they should be linked - not for form, but for substance, to ensure that reforms are smart and implemented effectively. Concertation is necessary for accession and accession is necessary for efficiency. This is one of the lessons of the crisis that some have decided to find hard to learn. Another element necessary to join the reforms is that the actors involved in the reform of a sector are also the main beneficiaries, especially in the field of health. I had pleaded, at the beginning of the legislature, for a major shift in health matters. I was told that's what we're gonna do. Yet, we are back in line with the previous government, with savings in the health sector that go back to the Treasury. However, we have just talked about it for nurses and caregivers: the gaps are major; the needs are considerable. Once again, I call for the savings in the health sector to be reinvested. Again with regard to health, I would like to mention the need to define an ambitious multi-annual plan with the pharmaceutical sector, as much as the need for long-term visibility instead of measures taken every six months. It is certainly in the interest of this sector, employment, innovation, but also in the interest of the public authorities in the control of current and future medicines - and there are many - at an extremely high cost. It is also in the interest of patients, given the availability of new medicines which we know to be more late in Belgium than elsewhere. Let me conclude by referring to the social and economic aspects. First of all, I will address the provisions on supplementary funding for social security. There is no structural response to post-covid and recovery. Mr. Minister of Justice, I come to another theme that brings together social and economics. I had tabled amendments, which I am resubmitting today, in response to the insistent request of the Confederation of Employers of the Sports and Socio-Culturel Sector. I would like to extend the scope of its activities, since the small non-profit organisations in this sector and others are mainly concerned. As such, after our debate in committee, several of them contacted me again by pleading their case and testifying to their incomprehension with your brutal, dry and unopened response. The sector has asked us to extend the possibility of deferring the general assemblies of the NSAs - in any case, those which have not been able to hold them. You know the covid went through that. Mr Minister, the government, not only in your leadership but also in that of all the parties of the Vivaldi, rejects this in a completely unjustified way. Since the law of 20 December 2020, the holding of the general meeting by electronic means has become possible without prior statutory authorization, but this requires the availability of technical, organisational means not always available to the NSOs or their actual members. May I remind you that many voluntary pensioners give their time to missions that are the responsibility of these small non-profit organizations and that are particularly important in everyday life, especially in the lives of families, citizens and our children and adolescents? Among the difficulties encountered are, for example, the difficulty of accessing the necessary hardware and technology, software that also allows for the connection of many participants, the expertise and the IT resources needed to enable active participation in the meeting. The holding of these general meetings, however, remains essential to the management of the association in question, as is the case, Minister, for the general meetings of the co-owners. It is not justifiable to provide for an extension of the power to postpone general meetings for the co-owners, which you have done and I understand, while you refuse to do so for the non-profit organizations for whom the holding of general meetings is just as crucial. This form of double standards, I imagine depending on the lobby of some or perhaps the interest you bring to the co-owners and not to the ASBLs, especially to the small ASBLs, I find it neither logical, nor equitable, nor proportionate. The difference in treatment that you do by giving to some what is legitimate but by refusing to small ASBLs what you have granted to co-owners, is frankly incomprehensible. I think that is not correct, and I would also like to tell the other colleagues in the Vivaldi parties. Stop coming here to tell us how important the little ASBLs are, how important you defend them and how attentive you are to them! In fact, when it comes to doing concrete, simple, cost-free things that allow these BLSOs to function simply in a slightly easier way - and we know how much the reform of the Economic Code has not led only to simple things for these BLSOs - no, you reject this from the back of your hand. Everybody don't care! Of which act. On the ground, we heard the message of the Vivaldi coalition on this demand which costs nothing, which is simple, but important to them. With regard to the amendments that I have resubmitted, Mr Minister, you have put forward some legal arguments. I'm not going to go into a debate here on the famous Royal Decree No. 4, because I saw how you put it off for the co-owners. In short... The amendments that I am tabling today extend the possibility offered to the NSAs, while allowing them to benefit from the same derogation regime as the co-owners' assemblies. I imagine that you will have nothing more to say on the technical level, because what you have done for some cannot be swept away with a back of your hand for others. I dare hope – not in your head, because according to the way you responded in committee, I understood that it was a refusal – but perhaps in the head of the Vivaldi parties who say they are attentive to the ASBLs, a little attention and consideration for this request of the sector. Not all CBHAs are affected, but some of them are. Of course, this is not a mandatory arrangement, but it is at least the possibility for them to live or, at least, to try to manage the situations we are experiencing today at best. It is never known that this amendment is being voted on, in which case it is true that I could adopt another vote for the programme law, but, given the various points I have mentioned here – the one on NSOs but also road fines, the health aspect – we will not support your programme law.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip110x.u75	Madam Chair, Mr.Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that previous governments have used us to these famous "flew" bills, in which there was drinking and eating, and which some provisions may meet with our support, but others do not at all. As Mrs Fonck rightly pointed out, these bills are sometimes referred to as "pot-pourri", if only a pot-pourri can smell very good or not feel good at all, especially when he hides political issues which, in our view, deserve a full debate. First of all, I want to intervene on the social affairs side of this project and, in particular, on the financing of our precious social security. In this regard, I must note a short-term vision of the government that I regret. While we fully share the objective of having adequate funding for social security and health care in a context of a health crisis quickly, this bill unfortunately misses the opportunity to anticipate the post-covid period and to plan for a comprehensive and sustainable reform of the sources of funding for our social security. It thus misses the opportunity to sustain it, to ensure that it is no longer a variable of budgetary adjustment, as has too often been the case in the past. As everyone knows, social contributions are no longer sufficient to finance social security. It is therefore appropriate to extend the forms of remuneration which are not or are not subject to contributions. On this issue, the Minister of Health had indicated in committee that a working group composed of the social partners and set up within the ONSS Management Committee is currently responsible for analysing the impact of these alternative remuneration mechanisms on the reduction of social security revenues. I wonder when the findings of this study will be communicated. The Minister referred in committee to the issue of company cars for which the government agreement provides for an increase in the solidarity contribution. The expected additional revenue would be around EUR 600 million over the period from 2021 to 2031. Nevertheless, it would be entirely and simply appropriate – this is my party's position – to remove this extra-salarial advantage whose environmental but also economic cost is far greater than the benefits it generates today. Moreover, according to some estimates, this advantage represents, for the Belgian State, an annual shortfall of around two billion euros. With respect to the Justice component, Minister, I recognize that you have taken into account the comments made by the Council of State in its opinion with respect to the items to be deleted or adapted, as well as the integration of the Regions in the process of developing this bill through, among other things, a steering group. Of course, we can't be more positive. It is essential to include the Regions in the reflection since, as the Council of State rightly points out, these new measures directly affect the way in which the Regions draw up their policy of penalties for driving offences. On the substance, my group supports the principle that the administrative burden associated with the treatment of road traffic offences must be imposed on offenders because, on the one hand, it has the effect of making them responsible, but also and above all, because, on the other hand, the revenue from this additional charge will be collected directly by the Court of Justice. The application of this principle to the Crossborder platform also seems to be appropriate given the Minister's forecast of a significant increase in administrative processing costs over the next few years. I would also like to join my colleague Geens in committee in saying that today the Department of Finance too often collects the costs of justice, for example the payment of a DNA analysis by the offender, whereas the Department of Justice should do so. On the health side, I once again regret the lack of general cooperation between the sectors concerned. The minister explained to us that he had appealed to the pharmaceutical sector, Pharma.be or Medaxes, which are not entirely satisfied with the bill, but what about the consultation with hospitals, the Belgian Pharmaceutical Association, the KCE, mutual societies or patient organisations? This issue remains open as the budget cuts announced by the Minister will have a significant impact on a significant number of the links in this medical chain. In addition to this, I welcome the indexing of the annual allocation of the Beliris Fund, which was set up, I would remind you, to finance the international role as well as the role of Brussels' capital. The bill tends to link from 2021 to 2024 the annual allocation to the evolution of the consumer price index as it is now established by the SPF Economy. If the average index for 2020 is not already available, it has been proposed that the average index for 2018 be used as a benchmark, allowing a percentage of 1.44% but also a significant increase in the fund allocated to the financing of projects aimed at ensuring the visibility of our capital. Finally, with regard to the development cooperation component, recognize that the current law does not always allow institutional actors or civil society organizations to submit joint projects, which has been corrected by the draft law. This will facilitate cooperation. Since the health crisis, many universities and NGOs have had to review their staff and objectives, so it was essential to support them in order to ensure the earliest possible resumption of their activities, of course in compliance with health measures. That is why we will support this progress contained in the bill to ensure that cooperation requires a resumption of cooperation between universities, thus enabling them to remain competitive, while remaining vigilant about the budgetary impact of the increase in the period of validity for the recognition of university partners. Colleagues, as I said in this bill, there is something to drink and eat, but there are really elements that do not allow us to support this bill in its entirety. That is why we will abstain.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip110x.u76	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to talk briefly about Articles 9 to 12 of this bill. They are essentially about the affordability of social security, which is very dear to us all. There are some differences of opinion about how we best organise them. We cannot ignore the fact that social security is becoming less and less a matter for workers and employers, and increasingly a matter for the public authorities. The share that the government needs to match increases every year. With this purple-green government, this increase is huge, especially in comparison with previous years. The question is, of course, how to do things differently, how to keep social security structurally affordable. That can happen in two ways. One can look at the revenue side or the expenditure side. I think we should do both. On the expenditure side, it is important that expenditure is kept under control and that more than ever, an effective use is made of social security resources. I can already tell you that my conclusion is that that is all but happening today. If we want to maintain income, we do so by ensuring that there are more shoulders to bear social security and that there are more people who contribute, by getting more people to work. If we do not do that, if we make sure that fewer people can contribute and put their shoulders under that social security, then sooner or later those who actually contribute will have to ask for more than is already being done today. They will then have to contribute extra. You can immediately ask for this additional contribution by raising taxes today or you can postpone the problem for yourself, read the invoice to the next generations, to our children. The question is what will happen to this bill. Something's happening in a more devious way. In addition to the sharp increase in, among other things, the government's balancing donation, an additional 398 million euros is now being injected into social security. But this is being done under the guise of extra money for health care, because the corona crisis has given us more support than ever to the social importance of good health care. So we need more resources from the general budget and less from the global management of social security to finance that health care. As far as health care is concerned, there's actually a cardigan pocket surgery going on here. 398 million are being pumped on one side, and 398 million are being drawn out on the other. There is actually no provision here for additional money for health care. That mom of corona and of the importance of health care is actually a false beard that hides something else. Of course, last year the corona expenditures and all the support measures really blew out. However, I would like to point out that this is not something that has happened to us. These expenditures were the result of choices made by this government over and over again, often forced by the constraints it has imposed on our country's socio-economic life. Those were choices, too. Those restrictions weren't something that happened to us. Those were choices. One could also make a number of other choices. I have already argued for much faster action to be taken on scientifically based measures that can effectively make a demonstrable difference in the fight against the coronavirus. But it's always been with wet fingers. Earlier this afternoon, for example, it was about the catering terraces. Now it turns out that those catering terraces weren't really a place of disaster, but apparently a much healthier place than other places when it comes to fighting corona. There are still many examples to give. If, at the same time, the choices made by this government mean that additional support measures must be introduced into socio-economic life, it is important to do so as finely as possible. But that too has not happened in the past year. We talked yesterday about a new aid measure, a RSZ discount for the third quarter. That is something that will also have to be paid with the 398 million extra that does not go to health care but to all those other branches of social security, where spending is now falling apart. I said yesterday, Minister, that this measure is anything but fine-meshed. You will ensure that many entrepreneurs and businesses receive support when they do not need it at all. In fact, you have admitted that it is indeed true, but that it is a choice, partly because otherwise you have to tire of explaining to Europe a number of measures, because, of course, there must be no unacceptable state aid. So you always choose to focus on aid measures that are anything but fine-meshed. Then you don't have to be surprised that the expenses are blowing out of proportion. That is not an effective use of resources at all. If one looks at the revenue side, it appears that there is no effective policy there either. The government excels in an inactive policy, a policy that focuses mainly on higher benefits but not on more private job creation, which means that fewer and fewer people will have to contribute more and more. That is not the policy we stand for. We want an active policy that encourages work. Only we find that the government's first activating measure is one of the best kept secrets in the Rue de la Loi. What is more, in the agreement on welfare and in the interprofessional agreement, and in many corona aid measures, the difference between work and non-work is getting smaller and smaller, whereas it should actually be increased to encourage people to work and stay. If we combine this broad support measure, which is increasingly being supported by companies that they do not need, then my clog will break completely. Then the end is lost. Then we have to keep pumping money over and over again. Apparently, we do not have the courage to say in so many words that the EUR 398 million extra for social security has nothing to do with additional money for health care. That balloon is pierced by this one, because you abuse our health care for your sintering Klaa policy, which is anything but effective when it comes to an activating policy and the sustainable financing of our social security. We do not want to support such a policy. That is why we will not approve the draft.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip110x.u77	Madam President, I would like to comment on Rules 8 to 12. The increase in the national allowance to the RSZ Global Management is an accounting matter, both in the area of pensions and in the area of medical care. From 2022 onwards, it shall be delegated to the King. The intention is clear. We no longer want to pass through Parliament through a programme law, no, we want to settle matters internally, in the government, through an RB. This is a sneak-out of Parliament's prerogatives. However, it is essential to finance social security. The share of the RSZ's own income vis-à-vis expenditure is decreasing. Nothing is being done on the revenue side and this will become problematic in the long term. Many economists, both on the left and on the right, raise the alarm, but this government is hiding behind the covid crisis in order not to take effective measures to maintain its own funding of social security. Numerous expenditure items are blowing out. The number of long-term sick is exploding and the increase in the number of wage-earners is more than worrying. On the other hand, a lot of foreigners come to work in Belgium. There will therefore be a need for a well thought-out labour market policy, which is best regulated by financial accountability of the regions, given the very different labour markets. The end of global management is largely due to the collapse of the Flemings, as the revenue from VAT and excise duties from Flanders is higher by percentage than its share of the population in Belgium. The excessive costs of migration, combined with the transfers to Wallonia, seem to have the intention of impoverishing Flanders. If from now on everything can be arranged through KB and therefore within the government, Parliament will even be deprived of the opportunity to respond. That is sad, to say the least.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip110x.u78	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the government, through the justice component of this program-law, wants to increase traffic fines by adding administrative costs. Technically, this is not an increase in the fine, but it is to charge administrative costs via a flat-rate system ranging from 8.84 euros to 25.32 euros. This is an increase that happens in a crisis situation, when workers are hard hit and it absolutely does not take into account the income or circumstances of the offences. This is the first point of astonishment, because at the beginning of this Parliament your political family had made it clear that there would be no new taxes, that the Liberals would not support new taxes. I understand that there will be no new tax on multinationals or big fortunes, but for workers there is a new tax. This is indeed a tax! This is an anti-social tax disguised as it does not take income into consideration. Whether you earn 1,500 euros or 10,000 euros, it's the same for everyone. And why this new tax? Second astonishment! Because according to the project, it's to finance the costs of the Crossborder platform. This is the computer system for receiving fines. Today, it makes it possible to collect more than 530 million annual revenues. In the explanatory memorandum for this project, you indicate that the Crossborder platform is underfunded. You want to remedy this situation by directly assigning the proceeds of this fee to the platform to ensure its correct financing. I'm really surprised, because you're worried about the financing of this platform as it has, since it's been used, raised almost EUR 150 million, and the perception has also increased. There is therefore a first contradiction in the sense that this tax is motivated by the financing of this platform when it is profitable! How do you explain this contradiction? In the general policy statement, as you say yourself, among the offenders, 93 have spontaneously paid their fines through this platform. So you're creating a new tax, which is unfair - I use your own words when I'm talking about tax, because that's the answer that your firm gave when it was questioned by the Council of State, and which is taken up textically in your opinion - and you're going to charge the citizen a platform that already pays millions of euros to the state, on the pretext of finding financing, while it's on a bonus. Finally, in committee, you have stated that you want to allocate these administrative costs - additional taxes on workers - directly to the Crossborder platform. That was the subject of article 13 of the preliminary draft. However, this article was recalculated by the Conseil d'État on the grounds that a tax cannot be allocated directly to one post or the other, as was the case with the Crossborder system in this case. Such an assignment is only possible if it is a remuneration, i.e. if one speaks of the consideration of a service rendered to the citizen by the authority. You will admit, Minister, as the Council of State says, that it is difficult to consider a system designed to charge a fine as a service rendered. Therefore, you cannot legally allocate these new revenues to the Crossborder funding. You have therefore deleted Article 13 which provided for it, and yet you maintain your intention to do so. During the debate in committee, you said: "The Minister intends to directly allocate the proceeds of this fee to the platform." But how will you proceed? You cannot do this, which is why section 13 no longer provides for it. This is therefore contrary to the principle of universality and is not provided for in the law. In concrete terms, what will these additional revenues be allocated to? These are the questions that arise. If the law does not provide for it, if you cannot legally do so, how are you going to allocate that money that will be received for this platform? These questions remain open and concern contradictions in this bill, but above all, it is once again a law that will unfairly charge workers, regardless of their income, and which will add a new additional tax for workers. For these reasons, we will not support this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip110x.u79	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to comment on Articles 13 to 22 on the Cross Border system. That is a platform to ensure the collection of fines. If I utter the word "fine," I'll automatically end up with the Minister of Justice today. Mr Minister, don't say tax, don't say fee, don't say tax, just say administrative surcharge. After all, that is the term you use as a primordial. After all, you have it recorded in the newspapers, you call yourself a primordial. You use this term to get an extra fee through Parliament through the programme law. It will be an administrative allowance on top of a fine, on top of a traffic fine and on top of the court fees that already go with it. There will be up to 25 euros. Those are additional revenues for the federal government. So we get a fine with administrative expenses, court fees, charges for registered lettering, a contribution to the fund and then this grant. At cruising speed this should yield 43 million a year. The good thing about that is that the money goes directly to the Justice Department, because these additional resources will also be needed, especially in the light of the announcements you have already made. One can spend money, but of course it has to come in. In the light of your announcement yesterday that there will be faster and stricter fines, it may even be more than EUR 43 million. You said that this amount should be able to finance the operation of the Cross Border platform. It is therefore in fact a question of means of action. I have nothing against the Coss Border system, because it's efficient. By the way, according to your own budget, a good collection of fines should bring an additional 100 million in cash, which is not nothing. I certainly do not think that is a bad thing, because it is a system which is already largely self-sufficient. There's already $100 million coming in. Let me be clear. I have no problem with someone committing an offence having to pay a fine. That is entirely justified. Someone is not obliged to commit an offence. It's okay for me to get a fine on that. It's okay for you to maintain it and carry it out. That is right, because that is a central task of the government. It makes sense for you to do that. That's what we're assuming. The fact that you use it at the same time as a milk cow to get extra income from it is another matter. Mr. Secretary, let us be honest. It's part of a milk cow. The day after the committee in which we discussed the draft, there was a police judge on Radio 1 in De Odend, who said that the amounts after a conviction or a fine with everything that comes with it are already very high. He concluded the interview very nicely with the observation that, according to him, it was rather a budgetary operation. Minister, I also understand that this budgetary operation is necessary, especially after the announcements you made yesterday and all the promises you made in your presentation. The money will have to come from something to make all that happen. However, Minister, my problem is that you do not designate it that way. Then admit it honestly. Please indicate what it should be used for and just admit that it is an extra flat tax. I understand that it is not easy for a liberal to admit that. Tell me, though. It's a tax. It's a tax. You have to admit that. If you want to spend money, you have to get it somewhere. It's a tax. You also submitted the draft to the Council of State for its opinion, which asked your services to explain the status of that allowance. At the time, you had to admit that it was a federal tax. So just admit it honestly. Moreover, Minister, you asked for advice from the Council of State, which does not always happen to the current government. What did the Council of State notice? He warned that the police of road traffic is also a regional competence. We know in this country the special laws of 1980, which have been adopted by a special majority. It provides that a government should be able to seek advice from that entity when crossing powers that are regional or other entities. The Council of State warned you that you had to seek the advice of the Regions on this matter. You rebutted that warning and suggested that you should not do so at all. In committee, you said that they had not replied. However, the Council of State has again pointed out that this opinion is necessary and that you are obliged to seek advice. That's literally what the Council of State's opinion says. I read the text of the opinion literally in committee. You quoted the opinion at the time, but of course you did not go all the way to the end of the text. The Council of State found that opinion so important and necessary that it stated that as long as you were not asking for that opinion, it would not give an opinion on your provisions either. And so there is no opinion from the Council of State on those provisions, except to seek their advice in Flanders or in the other entities. However, that does not affect this government. That won't be necessary. Don't look back and go on, you'll do that, you'll even ignore the Council of State and push your will. And this majority is there and looking at it. I have asked colleagues in committee whether we are really going to do this, whether we are really going to ignore the special 1980 laws, or whether we are going to ignore the Council of State's opinion on this point. There was no response. Those special laws are a piece of paper. The division of powers is therefore a piece of paper. The Council of State's advice? Who cares, don't worry about it. Apparently, it does not outweigh the ambition to impose a lot of fines quickly and quickly, Minister. The Council of State must then, apparently, even get kicked for it. This has already been done in ministerial decisions during the pandemic. That is the new political culture of this government. That is why we cannot agree to this and will therefore vote against it, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip110x.u80	Madam President, Minister, I would like to take the floor on the articles relating to health care and the budget for medicines. It was a bit of a swallow when I read the measures in the programme law, the so-called savings in pharmaceutical policy. After years of pharmaceutical policy serving the pharmaceutical industry with Mrs De Block, expectations were somewhat higher. You too, for the time being, roll out the red carpet for the pharmaceutical industry. The measures you are proposing are largely tailor-made. I'll explain in a minute. You don't put that under any of your seats or your couches either. I've reviewed the video of your explanation of the law. You say quite literally that you discussed the provisions on medicines and that you did discuss them with pharma.be and Medaxes between the first and second readings. It is, among other things, to avoid such a situation that the PVDA is submitting a legislative proposal to better identify the lobbying work of the pharmaceutical industry and the other industries. A first problem we have with the expenditure in the pharmaceutical budget concerns the so-called pharmaceutical deals or Article 111 agreements, previously referred to as Article 81 contracts. The expenditure under these contracts was really wasted by Mrs De Block. In 2019 it amounted to about €1 billion, just under a quarter of the pharmaceutical budget. I understood then that the sp.a. really wanted to get rid of those secret contracts. The Court of Auditors also stated in its 2020 yearbook on social security that there was a real problem with the large expenditure on pharmaceutical policy. Today, the draft programme law states that you will pay € 1.25 million to recruit experts from the RIZIV, who will then have to negotiate better, including the secret pharmaceutical deals. With the 1.25 million euros you will spend, you want to save 28 million euros on an annual basis. EUR 28 million on a budget of almost EUR 1 billion is, of course, peanuts and then you spend another EUR 1.25 million to pay for expertise, Minister. I have already told you in committee that you can come to my house and I will explain to you some of the studies of the PVDA study service. I will talk about this in a moment to make certain comparisons. It's not that hard. For example, if we look at prices from abroad or the production prices of medicines, it is clear that our social security is today a real milk cow for the pharmaceutical industry. With regard to the EUR 28 million in committee, I asked you about what specific medicines you will be negotiating and exactly who those experts would be. Is this about consulting agencies? Will an open invitation to tender be issued? How exactly will the budget of EUR 1.25 million be spent? You did not reply and perhaps you can do so today. A second aspect of the programme law is the artificially high price of long-term insulins. You have not consulted patients and health insurance funds, only with industry. You also said in committee that, at the request of industry, the price of long-acting insulins should only fall to the lowest price within a selection of 6 EU countries. Even if a biosimilar is available, they may only decrease between 6% and 7%. So you specifically address the industry's demand to keep the price artificially high. I'm surprised that you, as Minister of Health, simply take that up. The crazy thing about that case is that it is also long-acting insulins that are generics on the market. That's the absurd thing. If there is a generic market, the price must be able to fall. The question I am asking myself then, Minister, is where the sp.a or Vooruit's pill plan has gone. Did the name change throw it in the trash? A third aspect on which I go into more detail is the measures for biological medicinal products. I have noticed that even the N-VA believes that you could have gone a little further. Today, organic medicines only have to fall 20% in price if a biosimilar is marketed. Biosimilars are generic variants of biological drugs. You want to save between 10 and 20 million. The budget for the five most prescribed biological medicines in 2019 was 238 million euros. In other words, savings of EUR 10 million are not very ambitious. So we're gonna keep paying the drugs way too much in our country. In order to qualify for cheap prescription, you will prescribe the rules for cheap prescription for general practitioners and the doctors will adapt to the cheap prescription for ordinary generic medicines, but the problem is, of course, that they only have to fall 20% in order to qualify for being labeled as a cheap medicine. There is, of course, the problem, because this way cheap prescription is actually simply prescribed expensively. I go into more detail about a recent example to explain what is possible in practice and what is happening in our country, but also in other countries. The TNF inhibitor adalimumab branded Humira has already cost our social security a great deal and is still costing a lot of money, while it is making a lot of money for the pharmaceutical industry. For a few years, there's been a biosimilar. After that biosimilar came on the market, Humira's price in our country fell by half. This is also evident from the top 25 of 2019. Total expenditure on adalimumab decreased by 40% compared to 2018, while the number of patients taking that molecule slightly increased. In other words, the spontaneous drop in prices in Belgium after a biosimilar entry into the market was 50%, although you are only down 20% in this draft. Besides, it could be even better. In Denmark, an open call for tenders for adalimumab was launched at the beginning of 2019. At that time, the producer was prepared to lower its prices by 80%. Despite your proposal on biological medicines, our social security remains a milk cow for the pharmaceutical industry. That is why we are again tabling our amendment from the committee that aims to reduce the price of 50% instead of 20%. Finally, let me elaborate on the PVDA's alternative. With the design of program law you search for money. Some expenditure on social security is rising, the needs in hospitals and care staff are high. The PVDA has been advocating the introduction of the kiwi model for years. In the kiwi model, public procurement forces the lowest possible prices for the best medicines. Recently we received the opinion of the Court of Auditors on our bill, which is now under discussion in the Committee on Health and Equal Opportunities. It was striking, and that is why I would like to go into it a little more deeply. The Court of Auditors came up with a very favourable opinion for the kiwi model submitted by the PVDA. It provides cheap and more quality medicines. That's not what I'm saying. That's what the Court of Auditors says. It confirms that our proposal is a real win-win for patients, social security, doctors and pharmacists, and it sets out the benefits of the kiwi model. It raises social security money because it only pays back the cheapest medicines. The Planning Bureau therefore confirmed the PVDA's calculations of a number of years ago that this could bring about half a billion dollars annually. The kiwi model also guarantees better medicines, because only medicinal products with scientific therapeutic added value would be reimbursed. The kiwi model also makes the work of doctors and pharmacists easier, as they could prescribe the appropriate medicinal product to be pre-selected, ensuring that this selection is carried out independently and scientifically. The kiwi model also offers guarantees of security of supply. In its opinion, the Court of Auditors makes firewood the argument that the kiwi model would lead to shortages. It just demands guarantees for the security of supply. Finally, the kiwi model combats conflicts of interest, which is also very important. It guarantees that financial interests will no longer play a part in pharmaceutical policy. Selection is based on scientific and independent criteria and not on lobbying and marketing of big pharma. The Court of Auditors' conclusion is clear. The kiwi model is better for the wallet and for health and it is quite easy to enter. What is the government waiting for? What you are proposing today is really peanuts compared to what the kiwi model can bring. You do not touch the profits of big pharma at all, but continue to pursue a pharmaceutical policy tailored to the pharmaceutical industry at the expense of the patient and social security. In our view, it is high time we put public health first. I therefore hope, Minister, that next time we can find another law here and that you will be inspired by the opinion of the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip110x.u81	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, of course it is not my intention to resume the discussion from the committee. However, a number of points have been raised which have not yet been addressed in the committee to which I would like to respond. In particular, there is Mrs Fonck's question and Mr Boukili's question, which is no longer there. It's 6:00, I guess it's time for the truth. Mrs Fonck, you asked why this amount does not vary. Each criminal case involves administrative processing costs, which involves much more than sending a single letter. These costs include all physical supplies (printing, national or international clearance, envelope), operational costs related to services provided to citizens (call centres) and other operating costs. So far it was society, the workers as a whole, that paid these administrative costs through taxes. The program law no longer makes society whole, no longer workers, but offenders responsible for financing administrative costs. This is a fixed amount that depends on the stage at which the file is located. An offender committing a more serious offence does not incur more costs than a person committing a less serious offence. It is only when a file moves towards the payment order phase that there is also an increase in the administrative fee, for example by sending a recommendation. This is at this stage an amount of EUR 8.84 and an amount of just over EUR 25. Mr. Boukili asked for an explanation of the fact that article 13 was being recalculated. Revenues will be transferred to the Crossborder platform but this is done within the normal budget process, namely that this year, during budgetary control, we have already allocated sufficient resources to Crossborder. I think I have answered Mrs Fonck's question amply and politely in committee. I was clear, but I would like to add that, especially with regard to physical meetings, you know, thanks to the royal decree and the FAQ, that from June 9th, these ASBLs will be able to meet physically with a maximum of 50 people – 100 people from June 25th. So I do not see the problem: meetings are possible by digital and face-to-face means, thanks to the relaxations decided by the government and the Codeco. I would like to thank Mrs Rohonyi for having read the opinion of the Council of State and stressed that we have involved the Regions in our efforts. That is also the answer to Mrs De Wit's comment. I am glad that the colleague of the opposition has noticed this. We have indeed involved the regions in the consultations. Why is that? We didn't just do that. This is an administrative charge. It is a tax regime for which the Länder are not competent, Mrs De Wit. In fact, the regulation does not seek to amend the rules governing the general police or the rules governing traffic and transport, since the surcharge does not strengthen the obligation or prohibition of a particular conduct or to sanction or punish the infringement of the rules which impose or prohibit a particular conduct. An opinion of the regions, as provided for in Article 6 (4), third paragraph of the 1980 special laws, is therefore not applicable, but in view of the good cooperation and active involvement of the regions, already in today's Cross Border programme, Mrs Rohonyi referred to the Steerco region, we have actively involved the regions in the drafting of the legislative text. We have done this in two ways. We briefed them on the legislative text on 5 May and at a meeting on 7 May these texts were discussed in the presence of the regions. They were therefore involved, but they did not ask for any amendments to the proposed text. So far, the involvement of the regions. Mrs. De Wit, I'll come to the supplement myself. It's right. It's not about increasing traffic fines. You refer to a judge's ruling on the radio that this will lead to an increase in fines. It is not, because the real increase in fines took place in 2017, when our parties were in the government together. Then the fines were increased by 33%. I'll give you the numbers. The friendly settlement went from 65 to 85 euros. That was approved by the Justice Commission. On 1 May 2017, it went from 120 to 160 euros and from 175 to 235 euros. That was an increase in fines. This is not an increase in the fine. We're just charging the administrative costs. Why? We do that because the platform Cross Border pays external partners such as bpost and others to handle the administrative processing of those fines. For example, if you commit a traffic offence and you have to pay a fine, you will receive a letter. That letter will be printed and processed. You can also make a call to a call centre. There they get about 30,000 to 35,000 calls a month. All these costs must be paid, including to bpost. Those are the processing costs. Today they are paid by the taxpayer, by teachers, according to Mr Boukili. In the future, these costs will be paid by the offenders. The offender will pay the fine and the processing of that fine. I think that's only natural. If you don't want to pay the fine and the processing costs, you just follow the rules. You yourself say that it is a good thing that people are fined if they drive too fast, then it is also a good thing that they pay for the processing, not the taxpayer. Besides, the platform works well: 93 percent of the fines are paid in our country. Should all our public services work that efficiently, we were world champion in efficiency. We also see the effects of that platform. The number of casualties on the road is dropping. There are more controls, we're going to provide more staff at the parquets, at the police courts, with the intention of reducing the tolerance margins. We want to focus even more on road safety, so that the number of traffic victims goes down. After all, these are terrible tragedies in families affected by them. We're gonna push that fight further with this government. So much for my answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip110x.u82	Mr Minister, I really do not want to repeat the committee's debate here. You're referring to the fines. I have no problem with the fine being increased, as I said. If a violation is committed and a fine is imposed, there is no obligation to choose that method. You're gonna keep that on your guard. You call it a tax scheme, but a tax scheme is a tax until further notice. The Cross Border project already raises EUR 100 million and now there is another EUR 43 million. So it's already earning itself back. You like to refer to the past, Minister. You do that every time. You can keep doing that. It doesn't bother me, but it actually shows that sometimes you're more powerless than it would prove you right. You believe that the administrative costs should not be paid by the taxpayer, but by the offender. Let me follow you in that reasoning. You want the offender to cough up EUR 43 million extra to pay for the processing, so that the taxpayer does not have to pay for it anymore. I propose that we give a tax discount to all good taxpayers who have not done so. There must be a tax reduction somewhere, otherwise your reasoning is wrong. As long as that doesn't happen, it's just a flat tax. You can just say that quietly, Minister. I could reread the opinion of the Council of State. He expressly states that for the scheme you provide for, a mandatory opinion must be requested pursuant to Article 6 (4) third. That is precisely why the Council of State does not want to give an opinion on these provisions until it knows what Flanders has said about them. You say that consultations have taken place, but you have not added any advice or document that Flanders has no comments to the file. If you had, it might have been solved by now. Mr Minister, my children are currently in primary school, and yours are just a little younger. They get keys on understanding reading. The law is sometimes very complicated, but in this respect it makes sense to reread the opinion of the Council of State. It doesn't fit to just throw that in the trash.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip110x.u83	Minister, I love your smoke screens! Take your policies! First of all, with regard to the non-profit organisations, you say you answered in committee. That's very good, but at that time, you didn't boast at all about having accepted, supported, defended, worn the same device with the deferral of the AGs for the co-owners. I am told here that for the co-owners, it was normal and carried by the government, but for the small ASBLs, sociocultural, sport, extracurricular, it is njet. You don't talk about it and you don't brag about it. They have six days to meet, while working with volunteers, between June 25 and 30. This is no problem, it will all be possible. Frankly, you're nice. All this is very nice, but I think it's really not respectful of small ASBLs. What does it cost you to accept this? It doesn't cost you one euro, nothing! You're making this a problem by saying that a few more days for the AGs to be able to hold themselves physically with volunteers, it's really very complicated. This is politically unacceptable! Take your policy! In any case, I hold back from the parties of La Vivaldi the refusal to simply hear a very small request that does not cost anything from the ground. Of which, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, parliamentary colleagues! With regard to fines, the Council of State has clearly contested that this is a royalty. Minister, we are not going to go back to that point. My colleague called him right back. Now you come to give us a big speech telling us that it will no longer be the workers or the taxpayers who will pay. However, you could have applied an increase in fines for the most serious offences, a significant increase in fines for the most serious violations, the third or fourth degree, but that is not what you are doing. Those who, today, will have driven 124 km/h on motorways will have an increase in their fine by more than 30%. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip110x.u84	Minister, you understand me. You can say 124 or 125 km/h. Anyway! On the other hand, for those who commit a serious offence, whether in terms of speed or alcohol concentration between 0.44 and 0.50 mg/l, this is a fine of 578 euros. For these, how much is your increase? Let us even admit that this is an increase of about 25 euros. If I count correctly, this represents an increase of 4%. Frankly, what is the objective in terms of road safety? You're here to talk to us about the victims. You're right. I agree with you. But the logic of a good road safety policy is to be able to punish serious infringements in a very clear and strong way. In this case, you tickle the perpetrators of serious offences and, conversely, you will hurt those who commit small offences by negligence in a number of cases. Minister, I do not understand the choices you make – again with large smoke screens in the way you present them. Take your policies! In the background, you are decidedly very cool with those who commit the most serious offences, while it was obviously there that it was necessary to increase in order to be able to take into account this famous Crossborder platform. Minister, your answers convince me even less than the presentation that was made in advance.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip110x.u85	Madam President, I find this a very interesting debate. Not because I have a part in it, but when one looks at the spectacle here, it is quite special. I warned against new taxes as a result of the sintering Claus policy in social security. What do we see? Those who have followed the debate well have long realised that these new taxes are actually already there. This is often referred to as a tax system, but the new taxes are actually already there. So my prophecy has already come true today. What is particularly striking is two things. Firstly, that it is of course a self-proclaimed liberal minister who is the most ardent advocate of new taxes. It could be, of course. Secondly, what is also striking is that the head of this government, who is a few banks away, is silent, because, Mr Van Quickenborne, Mr Vandenbroucke has long liked the way things are going. You refer to the past, to the government that we were still part of together and in which we have worked on an activating policy and have been committed to private job creation. There's literally nothing left of that now. That is indeed the price that will not pay you or your party to deliver the Prime Minister as a seventh party, but it will pay society, the people, les caravans, as a colleague has mentioned here today. It is indeed those people who will be able to cough up all these extra taxes today. What is particularly striking is that you have become the most ardent advocate of new taxes. With liberals like you, of course, people no longer need socialists.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip110x.u86	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip110x.u87	We move on to the discussion of the clauses in the program bill. The text adopted by the committees serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1974/17) We begin by discussing the articles of the draft programme law. The text adopted by the committees is the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1974/17) The bill has 29 articles. The draft law has 29 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip110x.u88	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on amendments and reserved articles as well as on the draft programme law as a whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments retained, the articles retained and the whole of the draft programme law will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip110x.u89	The next item is the counting of the ballot for the appointment of the alternate member of Mr Didier Dochain to the Boards of Directors of Unia/Myria. The next item is the inclusion of the votes in order to designate the alternate member of Mr Didier Dohain on the boards of Unia/Myria. Nominations were announced in plenary on 1 April 2021. Candidates were announced at the plenary session of 1 April 2021. The document containing the names of the candidates has been distributed to you. (1987/1) The piece with the names of the candidates was delivered to you. (1987/1) In accordance with the decisions of the plenary meetings of 20 and 27 May 2021 and 10 June 2021, members were able to vote from Tuesday, 25 May 2021 to today, 4 p.m. In accordance with the decisions of the plenary sessions of 20 and 27 May 2021 and 10 June 2021, Members were able to vote from Tuesday 25 May 2021 until 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip110x.u90	The next item is the counting of the ballot for the appointment of Ms. Shaireen Aftab's alternate member to the Boards of Directors of Unia/Myria. The next item is the inclusion of the votes in order to designate Mrs Sharieen Aftab's alternate member on the boards of Unia/Myria. Nominations were announced in plenary on 1 April 2021. Candidates were announced at the plenary session of 1 April 2021. The document containing the names of the candidates has been distributed to you. (1988/1) The piece with the names of the candidates was delivered to you. (1988/1) In accordance with the decisions of the plenary meetings of 20 and 27 May 2021 and 10 June 2021, members were able to vote from Tuesday, 25 May 2021 to today, 4 p.m. In accordance with the decisions of the plenary sessions of 20 and 27 May 2021 and 10 June 2021, Members were able to vote from Tuesday 25 May 2021 until 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip110x.u91	The next item is the counting of the ballot for the appointment of the actual members as part of the renewal of half of the terms of office of the Notariat Appointment Commissions. The next item is the inclusion of votes for the appointment of permanent members as part of the renewal of half of the mandates of the Notarial Appointment Commissions. Nominations were announced during the plenary meetings of 28 January 2021, 25 March 2021 and 12 May 2021. Candidates were announced at the plenary sessions of 28 January 2021, 25 March 2021 and 12 May 2021. The document containing the names of the candidates has been distributed to you. (1989/1) The piece with the names of the candidates was delivered to you. (1989/1) In accordance with the decisions of the plenary meetings of 20 and 27 May 2021 and 10 June 2021, members were able to vote from Tuesday, 25 May 2021 to today, 4 p.m. In accordance with the decisions of the plenary sessions of 20 and 27 May 2021 and 10 June 2021, Members were able to vote from Tuesday 25 May 2021 until 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip110x.u92	The next item is the vote on the nomination of two members of the Chamber for the Conference on the Future of Europe. The next item is the vote on the nomination of two MPs for the Conference on the Future of Europe. Nominations were announced in plenary on 3 June 2021. Candidates were announced at the plenary session of 3 June 2021. In accordance with the decisions of the plenary meetings of 3 and 10 June 2021, members were able to vote from Friday 4 June 2021 to today 4 p.m. In accordance with the decisions of the plenary sessions of 3 and 10 June 2021, members were able to vote from Friday 4 June 2021 until 4 p.m. today. The two youngest members present (Melissa Depraetere and Dries Van Langenhove) are invited to attend the counting of the ballots. This will now take place in room 3. The two youngest members present (Melissa Depraetere and Dries Van Langenhove) are invited to attend the recording of the votes. This will now take place in Room 3.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip110x.u93	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip110x.u94	Madam President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip110x.u95	Madam President, there is another draft law before us which is being chased by Parliament. The cluster research has not been going smoothly for over a year. I am therefore surprised that this draft law should now be voted on very quickly. It should've been here a long time ago. The National Social Security Office will enrich data from various databases. At the end of the pandemic, the databases will be destroyed. However, the draft law does not specify whether the link between the National Social Security Office and the databases will be declared. The RSZ will not supplement its own data with data from the PLF database. Of course, that's all hard to control. Minister, you do not think we should worry about this, but the cooperation agreement does not mention that destroying the data also destroys the link with the databases, which we believe to be essential. Border workers should not fill in the PLF, but will they not be included in the cluster investigation? How will this group be tracked down? I didn't get an answer to that in committee. It is good that clusters are detected at the workplaces. However, there are many other clusters, such as schools and events. Then how are they tracked down? Is that still being worked on? These are ultimately Community powers. I would like to repeat this and propose that the full competence for health be transferred to the Länder. Then a construction like this proposed in the draft law would no longer be necessary and that would make it much easier. The end of the pandemic is proclaimed by royal decree. What are we basing ourselves on? What are the parameters that led to the decision to announce the end of the pandemic? Is it based on scientific insight, on the WTO or on the EU? Once again, Parliament is being denied. There is no question of Parliament deciding by a democratic majority and after a strong debate that the pandemic is over. That leads me to conclude that your confidence in Parliament and therefore in democracy is very small.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip110x.u96	Minister, it is my duty to intervene on this issue. Since the beginning of the crisis, I have stressed the importance of the "test, trace, isolate" strategy to effectively combat covid-19. I am hammering him because Belgium still does not have an ambitious strategy in this regard. We're still in too light a mode. It's not the number of tests you do that counts, it's also the way you track, the way you track the virus wherever it is. It is all the more important now that we are getting out of confinement, given the variations, especially the delta variant, and in the light of developments in the United Kingdom. This shows us how much more needs to be done to strengthen our defence lines in order to track down these variants. On tracing, on the effectiveness of isolation, on the absence of intensive accompaniment procedures to ensure the effectiveness of isolation, we are still not up to what we should be able to achieve. However, this would be essential for an effective strategy. I hope autumn will be as pleasant as summer. Otherwise, I think that we will still bear a heavy responsibility on the political side. The measures referred to today, which are contained in the cooperation agreement, should have been taken for a long time. We're doing retroactive. As a result, you are forcing everyone to work urgently: the Council of State, the Data Protection Authority. Their comments in this regard were particularly heavy, with reservations expressed on both sides. However, Minister, we are in a matter of protecting fundamental rights, in particular the protection of privacy. This protection of privacy requires that the bodies responsible for ensuring respect for these fundamental rights have the time to fulfil their essential tasks. This urgency that you impose on these organs may prevent them from carrying out this control with all due care. All the more so, and I will come to it, following the comments they have made, but in extreme urgency, with all the limits that this entails. This results in the risk of invasion of our privacy. On the part of Parliament, I will take a small example, although there are many others. The draft, Madam President, was distributed on 3 June; it was adopted in committee on 8 June. I dare to convey this message here: let us consider what this can mean for the services. I also dare to convey the message of what a project can represent that actually addresses fundamental rights and privacy issues. The problems with this text are not only in the head of government. There are some in different government texts. It is a concern that drives us. This is a way of doing things on the part of the government, and even more so when it comes to the protection of our rights and freedoms, which still raises questions. On the substance, during the work in committee, I made a number of reservations and questions about this cooperation agreement. As a reminder, we don't know how to amend this one. We must therefore take it as it is, in its entirety, and be in favour of it or not. It has been the subject of very critical opinions from the Council of State and the Data Protection Authority. You told us that there was no problem, that you had taken into account all the comments made by the Council of State and ODA. These bodies had to give their opinion so quickly that they had reservations, even on their opinions. That is true, you have taken into account some of the remarks made by the Council of State, Minister. On the other hand, the vagueness persists on a number of provisions of the agreement, which again creates potential risks in terms of data protection. This is the case when the Council of State indicates that it is impossible to assess the proportionality of the measures provided for in the cooperation agreement, although this is an essential condition for allowing interference with the right to privacy and the right to the protection of personal data. This is still the persistent blur around the categories of people who have access to the processed data. These must be precisely identified. That's not the case. Reference is made to the competent federated entities, to the agencies designated by the federated entities, and in the form of a non-exhaustive list in addition, since one specifies "in particular": you will agree with me that this is everything but a specific list. This is still problematic when institutions mandated by the Minister to carry out scientific or statistical studies are not listed. The Council of State had, however, made it clear that a much clearer mechanism, to be supplemented, should be provided for, including in that case, the Council of State had insisted, by the designation of the institutions concerned. You didn't. Another major question concerns the role of ONSS. Some provisions of the agreement describe it as a subcontractor, whereas in practice it may be considered as a person responsible - jointly with Sciensano - for data processing, given the need for both bodies to protect data, as well as the nature and extent of their interaction. One consequence could be that ONSS and Sciensano should clearly identify their respective roles and obligations with respect to the GDPR, as well as their relationships with the individuals concerned. Article 14 of the GDPR requires a clear identification of the data controller. Again, this is not the case. I have gone through the text very synthetically, obviously targeting those aspects that we see as the most problematic. I won't be longer, except to conclude. We will therefore vote against this cooperation agreement. As I have repeated enough over the course of this year, we are in favour of a much more ambitious and effective policy in testing, tracing and isolation to strengthen our defence lines, including on variants. However, Minister, I think it was possible to do so in a completely different way, much more respectful of our fundamental rights and, in particular, of privacy. Madam President, I conclude by announcing, as you will have understood, that we will vote against this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip110x.u97	Minister, I imagine that you, like me, have seen your mailbox literally overflow under the thousands of e-mails of citizens who are worried about this bill. This concern is perfectly legitimate, because we are dealing here with the processing of personal data. However, in order to ensure the correct processing of our personal data, a solid legal basis is required. In this case, here, for the three main types of personal data processing which are crucial in the fight against the spread of covid. These are the transmission by the ONSS to the federated entities of the national register number of the person, the date of the screening test and the postal code, but also the transmission by the ONSS to the federated entities of the data of the smuggler locator form relating to workers residing abroad but carrying out activities in Belgium, and finally the transmission by the ONSS of certain data of the same smuggler locator form to the social inspectors, in order to be able to control the obligation of quarantine and telework in the workplace. This cooperation agreement is justified. We can also ask ourselves how these data are being processed today without this legal framework in proper form. There is also a need to strengthen the monitoring of compliance with health regulations for workers. This is particularly so with regard to the safety of staff in the workplace, but also and above all of citizens, particularly in teleworking. In addition, last December, 40% of covid contamination took place in companies. The biostatistician Geerts Molenberghs of the KULeuven but also of the UHasselt indicated that while it is true that individual infections usually occur within the family environment, the first infection is often contracted in the workplace, hence the importance of telework when it is possible, of course. Erika Vlieghe, for her part, during her hearing in a special committee covid on 4 December, already highlighted the added value of the provision by INAMI of data on outbreaks of contamination in certain companies. While noting that the data had been submitted late, she stressed the importance of this information in analysing how clusters are developing within companies, but also in understanding how to avoid them. Erika Vlieghe also strongly denounced the main problem within companies, which was the lack of respect for the barriers within them. At the time, the control mechanism was still lacking. It therefore rightly stressed the importance of enhanced monitoring of compliance with health measures in companies. Finally, I should also like to welcome the fact that the various comments and observations of the Data Protection Authority and the Council of State have been largely incorporated into the cooperation agreement. By way of illustration, we note that the opinion of the Council of State has been followed with regard to the accuracy of the periods of detention of the data but also to the anonymization of the data. It is true, however, that we would have preferred to see explanations directly incorporated in the cooperation agreement and not in the commentary to the articles. However, ladies and gentlemen, my group will support this bill, as it has done in the Brussels Region.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip110x.u98	Madam President, I refer to the discussion in committee, where many of these discussions have taken place. I would also like to thank Mrs Rohonyi for her critical support. I agree with her that the Council of State has made a number of relevant comments. We have largely taken that into account. That is a bit contrary to what Mrs Fonck says about it, but that is the debate. It is difficult to say, on the one hand, that it is necessary to be much more effective with regard to tracing and all aspects of testing and, on the other hand, to be quite critical of the effort made to collect data with obvious reluctance on the part of very demanding people in terms of data protection. There is a balance to be found here and I believe that we have found it in this cooperation agreement, as we are trying to find in all the initiatives we have taken. From two things one: or you have to say that you have to be much more efficient, but then you can't always say that we're not careful enough about data protection, because data collection and combination are absolutely necessary to be effective. For the rest, I refer to the debate we have had in the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip110x.u99	Minister, of course we need data collection, but what do we need to do with it? Secondly, on the effectiveness of testing, tracing, and isolation, this is not just a matter of data collection. When you do a tracing where you have on average only two or three people called by positive contact, is it a tracing worthy of that name? No. When in terms of the effectiveness of isolation and the respect of quarantine for those who are positive - and we will have people carrying the Delta variant - I plead for an intensive accompaniment policy, such as providing hotel rooms in particular situations of cohabitation of several generations, going on site to ensure that it is effective, accompanying single-parent families, providing logistical support so that isolated people can continue to live, etc. This is not a matter of data collection but of policy effectiveness. If the answer to a policy of 'testing, tracing, isolating', is to say that more data is needed, and that they are distributed to many people, to do a lot of things that we have not been able to clarify exactly to do what in this text, it will bring nothing. Nothing prevented you from having a text that allows you both to have data to ensure an effective policy, while marking the text and clearly specifying what the Council of State and the Data Protection Authority have requested or even required. If that is the choice of the different governments, either. But it should not be said a posteriori that these provisions prevented an effective policy. This has nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip110x.u100	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip110x.u101	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2026/1) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2026/1) The bill has two articles. The draft law has two articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip110x.u102	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 17 June 2021 at 6.50 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, June 17, 2021 at 6.50 p.m.
