ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u2	Madam President, of course we support your initiative to translate into sign language. Mr Prime Minister, I had hoped yesterday that the nine health ministers would deploy a major battle plan to correct all the failures and delays: more than 500,000 doses of vaccines in freezers and refrigerators, centres with major problems of summoning, delays in the daily speed of vaccination compared to other European countries. Yesterday, the inter-ministerial conference decided on a few changes, but I have a big question since: will that be enough? Will it be much more effective, much faster, with a massive vaccination campaign? Let us dare to question a campaign that today poses important problems. First, take account of the evolution of scientific data. Yes, we have the vaccine package leaflet, but it is several months old. It is the result of studies involving a few tens of thousands of patients. Today we have scientific medical data covering hundreds of millions of vaccines. Let us also dare to organize things more effectively, seven days a week to make up for lost time. By working with the centres, but also by working with general practitioners, and specialist doctors for patients with heavier or chronic conditions, in a relationship of proximity and trust to be able to convince them. Let us also work on another system of convocation; that of today is very complicated. Keep it simple, Prime Minister: a system in which people can make appointments via the Internet and telephone, and in which doctors determine patients at risk. It is a race against the clock, both against the mutants, and to save (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u3	Mrs Fonck, your time has expired. We're going to interrupt. Thank you very much. I will remind all members of the two-minute rule. We are going to stick strictly to these speaking times.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u4	Madam President, Prime Minister, I imagine you saw last night the images of endless lines in the centre of Heysel. My 63-year-old neighbor was there. She ran there for three hours, with no chance to drink or sit down, but she held on. She held on because she knows that getting vaccinated today in Belgium is more lucky than the guarantee. And that, Prime Minister, is not normal. Indeed, for months, it has been well known that at some point we will have to organise a massive vaccination campaign. The result is known: summonses sent to dead or already vaccinated persons, vaccination centres one day empty, a full day or tens of thousands of doses wasted. It is in this context that the Ministers of Health decided yesterday to allow those over the age of 65 to be vaccinated. It's very good but we're far, far, far from the famous reset of our vaccination campaign. Prime Minister, when will you involve the communes to send the vaccination calls by age group, but also to organize vaccination centres that can be opened seven days a week? When will you involve general practitioners to vaccinate and reassure their patient? When will you involve the institutions that care for people with co-morbidity so that they too, like the elderly, can be vaccinated as quickly as possible, in accordance with everyone's medical data? The longer you delay, the more you eventually force the young people, as well as the sectors, to stay in a psychological and financial distress that is today untenable. It is true that today we are far from the figures of last June but residents of nursing homes are now vaccinated and we have rapid tests and tracing. Therefore, when will you mobilize (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u5	Prime Minister, vaccination must always be voluntary. If vaccination is not compulsory, then there should be no travel ban; our borders should not be closed to the unincorporated citizens, at least not to them. In the European Affairs Advisory Committee last week, following a question from me, you answered my good colleague, Ellen Samyn, very nuanced and remarkably positive about the initiative that the European Commission is developing, the European vaccination passport. Your Minister for Foreign Affairs, however, was far less nuanced about that. It made it very clear that vaccination should not be linked to freedom of movement in Europe. My first question is therefore whether you share your Foreign Minister's view. My party does, and we are opposed to any form of discrimination, including discrimination between citizens who are or are not vaccinated. If vaccination is really voluntary, do not start with people who do not comply with the obligation to do so. In this respect, I am concerned when I hear government parties threatening those who do not want the vaccine. Threatening is the worst way to convince people to be vaccinated. The chairman of one of your coalition partners, Joachim Coens, said yesterday that there are consequences for non-vaccinating. He talked about consequences not only for foreign travel and participation in major events but also for employment. Prime Minister, voluntary vaccination must not lead to a professional ban, which is reprehensible. Do you agree that such statements (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u6	Madam President, Prime Minister, for residents of nursing homes and for hospital staff directly exposed, vaccination will be completed very soon. For front-line caregivers and helpers, it started at the end of February. Vaccination centres are ready. They're here, so are the vaccinators. However, the images of the last few days have given us the turn with coucacs on the computer level and at the level of convocations, with sometimes deserted centres sometimes overflowed. Youth diseases will be said, with this sense of urgency that no longer leaves us. Yes, this vaccination campaign must be intensified so that all the rest of the population who so wish can be vaccinated as soon as possible, because yes, this vaccination is synonymous with release. This accelerator, we should finally know him. Green light for the AstraZeneca vaccine for the over 55 years, reduction of the buffer stock of the Pfizer vaccines, this is what was decided yesterday by the Interministerial Conference. This is why we can quickly summon people over the age of 65 and the most vulnerable. It's already done in Wallonia. Good news for all those who are most at risk of developing serious forms of the disease but also for the younger ones, those who are in the strength of age and who need to see their freedoms restored. Prime Minister, are you confirming this accelerator today? Do you confirm the prompt and effective sending of the invitations to the citizens concerned? Is the federal registration platform now fully operational? When can a decision be made on whether to space the two doses in order to vaccinate more people quickly?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u7	Mr Vandenbroucke, I have a question for you. It's actually a request. In 140 days, the Olympic Games will start, on 23 July in Tokyo, in which some 150 compatriots will participate. 33 of them have already been infected with the corona virus, including Nafi Thiam, Nina Derwael and Emma Meesseman, so not the least. This means a 30% reduction in performance for 12 weeks. Being infected after 15 April actually means his chances of hypotheizing for these Olympic Games, because many still have some qualifying tournaments to fight or run. The Olympics are once in a lifetime. These are people who prepare for ten or twenty years for one minute of eternal fame. I'm not talking about the football players, I'm not talking about the cyclists. They can perform every week. Although, I'd like it for them, too. But I'm talking about the real athletes. I'm not asking for preferential treatment either. They have already asked for it on 1 December. You know that well, Minister. Those athletes want to be vaccinated after the people in the home care centers and after the care staff. If people continue to vaccinate at the current pace, it will be up to them to fight the Olympic Games in Paris in 2024. So I urge you, Minister, to inoculate these people. Inoculations are being carried out all over the world: in China, in the United States, in Russia, even the Hungarians and the Serbs. Get a level playing field. Support our athletes. We invest so much in them. The Sports Ministers of the sub-governments agree to do it. We are waiting for you, Mr Vandenbroucke, (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u8	Madam President, Prime Minister, communication, clarity, perspective and adjustment are the key words in the coming months. Updating is the first key word. The High Health Council gave the green light earlier this week to administer the vaccine of AstraZeneca in people over 55 years of age. Previously this could not be done due to insufficient research on 65-plussers. Those research results are now available, which is why they have rightly been re-directed. In relation to communication, the second key word, we note that there is a great deal of public distrust of the vaccine. The first reports of limited effectiveness are no longer available. Of course, the supply problems have also had a very negative picture. In the meantime, however, it appeared that the vaccine is indeed very effective and can produce very good results. Finally, I would like to focus on the key words: clarity and perspective. People want to know how many vaccines there are already, what vaccines are available and when they are delivered, but especially when they are their turn to receive a vaccine. If, as was the case yesterday, it appears that a producer delivers less, then people should also be able to see the adjustments and consequences in the figures and see when they are next. Prime Minister, what initiatives will you take to convince people of the quality of the AstraZeneca vaccine? What kind of government communication will you use to do that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u9	Madam President, Prime Minister, studies show that peaks of covid contamination are inversely proportional to the population's adherence to measures taken to combat the virus. Last week, the Consultation Committee went on short. It was expected that there would be disturbing figures. But finally, the third wave announced did not take place. Today, we are at a turning point. If contamination remains high, it is stable and vaccination seems to be speeding up, which is good news. It is time, Prime Minister, to give clear and consistent perspectives to all sectors that are currently suffering. I'm thinking about Horeca, culture, event, travel, and I'm going through with it. I am thinking of the 11 million Belgians who suffer terribly from these measures, who are worn out and who need prospects. Prime Minister, this psychological distress must be taken into account. We must take into account the fact that the mental health of our fellow citizens is going to be increasingly ill and adapt the measures taken by taking this into account. I read in the press that tomorrow the bubble outside could be expanded to eight or ten people. I sincerely hope that this will not be the only announced relaxation. If that were the case, do you think that would be enough? Do you think it's not too late to continue to have a little bit of membership on the part of the population? Would it not be time to announce a clear timetable for future flexibilities and the process of decoupling?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u10	Madam President, Prime Minister, in the short space of time I would like to address two issues. I shall first address myself to the Minister for Health. We all know that vaccines will be a crucial point in opening up the realm of freedom. Questions have already been asked about administration and efficiency. Of course, we need vaccines. The committee asked what lessons we draw from the fact that certain countries, such as Denmark, which is not a superpower, are nevertheless able to obtain orders at a higher rate than we do. Yesterday you replied in committee that this had to be investigated. Perhaps some proactivity is needed here, so that we can at least follow the pace of the fastest Europeans. Then we are still very far from the pace of Israel and other countries. Mr Prime Minister, last week the Consultation Committee came out with a surprising result. Given the figures that were on the table then, a week's delay might have been very appropriate. However, I would again like to ask for a distinction to be drawn between those measures which actually have an impact on the corona figures and with which we should not take any risks and those measures which we have learned in the meantime that they may have been rightly taken, perhaps with insufficient information, but which we know today that their impact on corona is very limited. Hopefully this week has been used for that. At least let the people in that latter area no longer be the victims of perhaps insufficient information from back then, but which has now been supplemented. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u11	Mr Minister, after last Friday's Consultative Committee, it was once again about the individual responsibility of the citizen to apply the corona measures, but it was surprisingly quiet about the crushing responsibility of our eight to nine health ministers in the failure of the vaccination campaign, because honestly: what a misery. On the one hand there are empty vaccination centres and on the other hand overcrowded vaccination centres, improvisation everywhere. That is why it was said this week that there would be a reset of the vaccination campaign. I was therefore expecting to look at Het Journaal yesterday, but I was slightly surprised when I saw the result: in Flanders the 85-plussers will be invited, in Brussels the 75-plussers and in Wallonia the 65-plussers. Are you thinking of ways to make things even more complicated or how are things going in the inter-ministerial conferences? Mr. Secretary, are you playing bird dick, raggedy or einie meinee mutte? Are you surprised that people are losing confidence in politics and in the vaccination campaign? In the meantime, however, it was just about the Olympic Games, a championship that we are winning: the championship of the number of doses per inhabitant that lies in the fridge. This morning there were 640,000 doses of vaccines in Belgian fridges. I have the following question, Minister. On November 22, you made a bet: everything would be logistics ready. At the beginning of January, however, nothing was ready. You said you'd change the vaccination strategy. This week you were going to do a reset. My question to you is therefore the following. When (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u12	Madam President, the use of deaf interpreters is a very good thing and makes it possible to follow these debates more widely. Ladies and gentlemen, last week we decided on a time-out in the Conciliation Committee. We did that because we saw numbers that deviated from what we expected. In a situation where there is no solid ground, it is prudent to make such a decision. Meanwhile, we found that the evolution of hospitalizations follows the curves of the model that scientists had presented at the beginning of last week. This curve indicates that, in a situation where the rate of contamination of variants is 50% higher, a slight increase in hospitalization can be expected in the coming weeks and at least until the beginning of next month. I think that having taken the time to confirm the situation we are in will allow us to make decisions this Friday. I do not want to anticipate what we will decide on Friday, but I want to make it very clear, and many of you have spoken about it, that we cannot avoid the fact that the very stable measures that have been in force in our country for many months and which remain in force for so long have an impact on our resilience and motivation and on the mental health of many of us. We see that mobility has increased earlier in recent weeks. We cannot ignore the fact that respect for, for example, the obligation to telework is likely to be reduced, which means that there are more contacts and thus more infections. It is not any new measures that control the figures, it is the way in which we continue to respect the existing measures and continue to show discipline that brings results. Tomorrow we have a double mission. The first is to give prospects for the coming weeks and months, but also to choose a prudent, reasonable and safe approach. I think that's what the public expects us to do. Mr De Roover, you are quite right to ask the question. Which things can we allow more of which we know in the meantime, with a very high degree of probability, that the additional risk is very small. We know that indoor activities pose a much higher risk than outdoor activities. That is why we put together all the elements of what I would call a "full air" plan to better organize things and to give this perspective. It must be safe and responsible, but the timing is also very important. If a number of things are done too early, it will be seen that this will lead to a very sharp increase in hospitalizations in April and May. The result would be that we have given freedom, but it is of short duration. I think this is the last thing we should do. We must ensure that we take that step at a time when we know it is the right time to take that step. The freedom we want to give to people also leads to more connectedness, but a short-term connection would certainly not be a good thing. It has to be clear, it's not the outside plan that's gonna make us beat this pandemic. The speed of vaccination will be the key. The Minister of People's Mind will answer those questions. It is also clear that the use of testing capacity will play a major role in this. We have a capacity of 140,000 tests today. It's not always fully used. We'll see how we can maximize that. It is clear that rapid testing must play an important role in the day-to-day management of the pandemic. The Minister of Health will consider how to remove the barriers, to ensure that the rapid self-tests can play a role. Mrs. Pas, you had a question about the vaccination passport. I have always been very clear about this. The vaccination passport must not be a source of discrimination. It is not a vaccination passport that will or will not allow you to go to a cinema. As far as travel is concerned, we already know that third countries will work with this. I think that Europe's desire to coordinate this and take matters into its own hands is a good thing. Madam President, finally, I would like to entrust you with something that I have on my heart. All of us here are representatives of the Nation, and we have a certain responsibility in the role that we have to play. In this period, our goal is not to try to become the most popular. In a period like this, our mission is the general interest. If today I have to choose between a cautious course or a reckless one, it is clear to me what choice we should make. We, representatives of the people, must face the facts and must not hide the facts. If it is dangerous, we should not be afraid to state what the facts are and to put the finger on the danger. If we ourselves create a bid of relaxation or announcements and we cannot deliver them, should we be surprised that people are disappointed? Should we be surprised that people are demotivated? I can assume that we will understand in the coming days that we will fail if we do so. What is expected of us is that we serve the public interest and not that we are engaged in our personal popularity.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u13	Madam President, the Superior Council of Health has confirmed that we have three safe and effective vaccines for adults and the elderly. We now know that we can use these three vaccines for the entire population, which will greatly facilitate the organization of the campaign and allow for a real boost. In Flanders, invitations were issued for people over the age of 85. In Brussels, invitations for the 75-year-old group were launched. In Wallonia, we start with people over the age of 65 who have an e-mail address, and postal mail will follow. It is true that there are differences. They are explained by differences in the context and operational aspects of the campaign. But the common goal is to begin now to vaccinate older people who are particularly vulnerable. It is an ethical and pragmatic imperative to safeguard the capacity of our health care system. This is an important decision which, I hope, will support morale in these difficult times. As far as the Pfizer vaccine is concerned, we know today that we can safely space both doses. This reduces the buffer stock and immediately starts using 170,000 doses in stock. This is a very important boost, because we can reduce the stock formed for reasons of caution, and move from a three-week stock to a stock of less than a week. We have agreed on other elements of optimisation that I am not going to mention. But all the problems identified at the operational level, which you mentioned, must be solved. Yesterday and yesterday, we worked intensively, at all levels, to tackle these problems and to strengthen the management of the project and the system in place. The principle is that vulnerable people must first be vaccinated. Age is an indication of vulnerability. In addition, co-morbidities are also a factor of vulnerability. Here too, there is an ethical and pragmatic imperative to safeguard the capacity of our hospitals, to give priority to patients who suffer from certain co-morbidities. At the Interdepartmental Conference, we have a collective approach that would allow large-scale invitations to patients with co-morbidities. I know it's a debate. We have therefore agreed in the Inter-Ministerial Conference to address the issue because, whatever the strategy, it must obviously be operationally feasible. As far as the candidates for the Olympic Games are concerned, Mr Dedecker, I have heard your request very well. I understand that, too, but I would ask you and the athletes concerned to understand that we are now considering the organisation of the vaccination campaign for the large group of vulnerable people and for the also large group of care providers. Once we have reached the general population, it will also be easier to respond to such requests. So I will not give you that answer today. Nor can I give it on my own; we are discussing it with the Health Ministers at the Inter-Ministerial Conference. I would ask that priority be given to the vulnerable groups of the elderly and people with certain diseases and care providers. In the field of public communication, tasks are divided. Scientific communication and general information are mainly the work of the federal level. The motivational communication, the convincing communication, the response to people's concerns must be mainly organised by the Länder. I can say that very great efforts are being made at the level of the Länder for motivating communication, but I am aware that there is still a great deal of work to be done here. Finally, as far as experience in other countries is concerned, I can only repeat, Mr De Roover, that the European Commission has assured us that all countries will receive the same share at the same rate at the time when there is a distribution of tickets of vaccines to which they have signed up. Countries which have signed up pro rata shall be treated equally at the beginning of the division of lots. That principle has always been guaranteed to us. If other countries are vaccinating faster than we are today, then it will depend essentially on another organisation and perhaps indeed a better organisation, which I do not want to avoid. So we must learn from that too, and I agree with you. I also strongly advocated in the Council of Health Ministers on Monday to gain more insight into, for example, the approach in Denmark or other countries that are ahead in terms of vaccination rate. We need to learn from that. The agreement has also been made that we will do so systematically. Of course, we are also trying to inform ourselves as best we can about what other countries are doing. With regard to possible thirty-five days between the first and second dose of Pfizer, we will make a decision next week. The consequences will not be immediate. On the other hand, the buffer stock will be reduced and 170,000 doses released. In a second phase, this thirty-five-day gap can lead to a positive effect. However, we are in the process of consulting the European Medicines Agency to ensure that there will be no prohibitive problems with the package leaflet.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u14	Madam President, you have quite rightly held on to the speaking time of Members of Parliament. I note, however, that if the government ever says that it is five to twelve, we will still have a great deal of time. The ministers have exceeded their speaking time. Although it is a grey zone, I would like to show some understanding for it, but I would also like to ask that the same leniency be shown for Members of Parliament, who are at home here and who are questioning the government here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u15	Madam President, I spoke on this subject a few weeks ago. I believe that the same latitude should be possible. I can understand that the Minister of Health needs a little more time. Let's give parliamentarians two minutes of reply time and everything will be fine in the best of the worlds.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u16	We will stick to the Rules of Procedure, with a minute of reply time, without interrupting the second. I am aware of your ability to express yourself in the minute, that is all parliamentary art.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u17	Madam President, it seems to me that the Rules of Procedure state that the government has five minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u18	Madam President, we are reaching out to have a constructive debate. If you want to give the government more time, that's your right and I can understand it. For five years, we've been operating in a different way. The Members have the last word, and I would remind you that you are here to defend the interests of Members and not ministers. You're the president of the deputies, not the ministers. If you want to be a minister, this is another debate. You're here to defend our interests. For five years, when ministers took more time, MPs were also given more time. Why do you reject this constructive proposal? We have the last word!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u19	Since my arrival, we have been operating with an extremely wide timing. I was criticized by a majority of parliamentarians who felt that the question-and-answer sessions were too long. We have therefore decided to return to the timing set out in the Rules of Procedure, including for ministers! Remember, for the ministers, we had largely given ten minutes on several occasions. We stood here for five minutes. If you want to exercise parliamentary control, you also need an answer to the questions, which is why the timing has been exceeded today. The scope of the subject, the preliminary draft that is in our walls today and the concerns of the citizens require that we get answers to your questions. If you want me to cut the microphone after five minutes, I am quite able to do so, but I do not think that will guarantee democracy. Mr De Roover, I understand your point. Members of the government need to hear it, but I believe that exchange is crucial. Through questions and answers, we must be able to do our job.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u20	Prime Minister, you have called for Members to ensure the general interest. Let me tell you that, as an opposition party, we have been much more responsible than many parties of your majority, not playing, like them, at the overbidding of the deconfination race. Indeed, false hopes create despair. And today, the Belgians need hope. Yes, we are able to win against the covid-19. Yes, we are able to regain our freedoms, especially through vaccination. Minister of Health, it is your responsibility to deploy this weapon to 100% of its capabilities, quickly, massively and effectively. I asked you for a vaccination battle plan. You first announced a reset. Yesterday, you decided on a "reseteke", as they say in Brussels. I hope for the Belgians that this "reseteke" will suffice. But I can tell you I have some doubts. If every week I press you, it's because every day counts, because every dose counts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u21	Prime Minister, Minister, thank you, although you still do not respond to the need to finally include general practitioners and municipalities in the vaccination strategy. However, the issue, Minister, is far too important to continue to exclude them. The challenge is to get them involved because they are as close as possible to the citizens so that they can contact them and inform them. Prime Minister, you say that crisis exit management must be safe, reasonable and prudent. It is precisely for this reason that, unlike some parties in your majority, my party has never called for precise dates or untenable promises. However, DéFI has always advocated for months for strict health protocols developed in consultation with the sectors concerned. Indeed, the only sure prospect that can be given to these sectors today is their reopening, the day when vulnerable people can finally be vaccinated, provided they are ready! As we can see today, life has finally been able to regain its rights in the rest homes. I hope that you will ensure that life can also regain its rights everywhere else, as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u22	Madam President, Prime Minister, contrary to the consequences for policy makers who provide too little protection material and too few vaccines, employment consequences for those who do not want to be vaccinated are unacceptable. That's bread robberies. Mr Prime Minister, you missed an opportunity today, by failing to answer that question, to be very clear on the matter. The essential thing is to ensure that more vaccination is first applied. In this country, the total number of people who have already received a first shot is lower than the number of vaccines in the fridge in this country. It is of the same order of magnitude as the number of British vaccinated every day. It is already March and even the entire hospital staff in this country has not yet had a chance to get a shot. Make this a priority rather than threatening and punishing those who do not want a vaccine.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u23	Prime Minister, Minister, with the opening of schools, one of our first objectives in managing this crisis has always been to avoid the saturation of hospitals, not to have to make impossible choices and to continue the care of patients. Today, it is imperative that our eyes continue to look at the covid units, but not only. Indeed, child psychiatry units must also take our attention. Consultations are exploding, as are requests for beds. These units are close to saturation, reflecting the anxiety we have been receiving for months from the ill-being of young people and their sense of disarray and loneliness. Tomorrow, at this new concertation committee, your eyes will, as usual, have to look at the figures, but they will also have to brag about the repeated needs and alarms of our youth.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u24	Mr. Secretary, a Socialist gave me a small answer. I'm asking another question. I'm a 65-year-old. Can I hand over my vaccine to an Olympic athlete? If I find 150 others my age, can they give their vaccine to the Olympic athletes? I would like a clear answer. Why am I asking? In 2009, we ordered 12.7 million vaccines against the Mexican flu and paid EUR 108 million for it. When the Mexican flu was over, we destroyed 5 million vaccines and paid GlaxoSmithKline another 33 million euros for 4 million vaccines that were never used. And now we're gonna be stingy around here. Those people don't ask for preferential treatment. The care staff has been vaccinated and the residents of the residential care centres have been vaccinated. The Olympic athletes are once in a lifetime ambassadors of our country and you are so difficult about 150 shots that they could perform at the Olympic Games. The day they come home, you will be the first to receive them and take a picture with them. Then do something for them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u25	Prime Minister, Minister, I am pleased to hear you say that you want to offer a new perspective tomorrow. You do that on the basis of scientific insights. That's important. The vaccination campaign must also help us to move forward. You're right to stress that. Here's what I want to ask you. If we are going to be vaccinated on the basis of age, from old to young, then I would ask you for a clear timing. Now people of 25 years of age do not know whether they will be vaccinated at the beginning of June or at the end of September. That frustrates them. Clear communication can provide them with a perspective and an objective to sustain the measures further. Please ask your colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u26	Ministers, of course, we must not let it go right away. This must be gradual, but there must be clear perspectives. It is not a question of false promises but of clear and consistent perspectives. The distress of the population must be taken into account and, above all, not always focused on a mathematical model. We are human beings. To say, as I read this morning, that only teaching was a priority, is insufficient. We need to restore confidence. We must restore the hope that we will one day be able to regain our freedoms. I sincerely believe that this is how we will not lose the total support of the population.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u27	Minister Vandenbroucke, if the bar on European orders is low, you can indeed refer to the weak action of the European Union, but if the bar here is even lower than the best performing European countries, that is your responsibility. You must be called upon to do so. Prime Minister, you referred to the word recklessness. I don't think that's the choice. Anyone who walks the dog at 0.30 a.m. doesn't behave recklessly, but goes against the rules. Then we begin to question all the rules. If we reduce the external activities, they will take place inside, where we cannot control them, resulting in much greater health risks. If we don't pay attention, it may lead to a very bad exchange of public behavior that we don't want. Hence, away with the measures that affect well-being rather than the corona crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u28	Minister, I'm angry because last Friday you pointed to individual responsibility, but you're not talking about the fiasco that our health ministers are organizing. In this country, I'm sorry, but we don't learn from his mistakes. We're going from mistake to mistake. We have nine ministers walking on their feet, and instead of adding efficiency and coherence, you add chaos and it only gets bigger. As a result, people's confidence is diminished. I think it's really time to learn from your mistakes and change how to work.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u29	This concludes the theme of our first set of questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u30	The Kurds are losing their grip at the Al-Hol prison camp. You could read that in the paper. I was very recently allowed to experience this with the other questioner in person because we had to flee and were almost stoned. Just last week, an associate of Doctors Without Borders was murdered. This year there were already 30 murders in the camp Al-Hol, and the year has only just begun. I have already been given a political debriefing to many embassies, such as the United States and the Netherlands, but not to our own federal government. I decided to put a question to Mrs Wilmès on 14 December last year to remind you of the already precarious situation in those camps. Today we're 81 days later and I still haven't gotten an answer. I understand that somewhere, because the ice is very smooth for your majority. Under Michel-I, you said with us that the terrorists would be tried there. On 26 September 2019, as Deputy Prime Minister at the time, you repeated this to the Press Group. The terrorists would be tried there, in local courts, with our support. I could only welcome that at that time. There's even better news. You are no longer Deputy Prime Minister, but Prime Minister, and leader of this pack. The good news doesn't stop. Not so long ago, I was allowed to speak to the judges on the spot. They're ready to bring our terrorists to justice. They can't wait. They're waiting for an agreement framework and an appointment with our federal government. Prime Minister, what is the government's position on whether or not to return these terrorists, foreign terrorist fighters? Do you remain stable and steadfast in your vision of not so long ago, or do you take another turn, more or less under pressure from your coalition partners? I myself and many of our fellow countrymen are looking forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u31	Prime Minister Al-Hol, this refugee camp on the border between Iraq and Syria, has become the new capital of the Islamic State. I went there two months ago. Today it is an area where no one comes back, especially the Kurds, and where NGOs have fled. It is the law of the Islamic State that reigns there. Anyone who contravenes it is immediately murdered. It is an extremely dangerous jihadist cauldron for local populations, the region and our own security. Belgian women and their children are there, even if we do not know exactly how many of them, because we have not been able to find them, but they are probably half a dozen. However, the Belgian Government and the international community continue to put their heads in the sand and not to see the danger for these young children, but also for the international community and for us, which is an issue that is still unresolved. The Kurds call for help and ask for our help and cooperation. I had already conveyed to the previous government a message from the chief magistrate in charge of the on-site trial, who asked for judicial cooperation. However, we do not want them to be returned or to cooperate with the Kurds. It is therefore time to resolve this issue. For reasons of security and justice – because trials must take place – but also for reasons that look at the fragility of many of these children, beyond the danger of some others, the time has come for us to deal with this problem proactively. That is what I am asking you today, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u32	Prime Minister, you have the floor for four minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u33	Thank you for your questions. Let me begin with the absolute starting point of this government: national security. It is at the forefront and, of course, the principles of a democratic rule of law. But we must not be blind to reality. The reality is, as you have both pointed out, that the situation in the camps has deteriorated dramatically and that safety in these camps is also deteriorating very quickly, especially in the Al-Hol camp. If children are left there, in camps where ISIS is actually waving, those children are tomorrow's terrorists. We must not allow that to happen. In the general interest of our safety, but also for the well-being of children – who are Belgian children – we must do everything we can to get them out of there. Belgian children are often very young. The CNS confirmed yesterday the repatriation of children. On the advice of the security services, the age limit has been set at 12 years, an age that is included in many aspects of youth protection. It is clear that the situation of mothers is also very worrying. In the camps, where conditions are deteriorating, we are losing control of these mothers. For our country, there are thirteen women, nine of whom have been convicted and four are under an international arrest warrant. The National Security Council has decided to analyse the situation on a case-by-case basis for mothers. Here too, the central criterion remains our national security. Only after a safety analysis has conclusively established that they have completely abandoned and renounced IS ideology can it be considered that they should return with the children, either to serve their sentence here, or to continue to be prosecuted here. This is also what happens to all the women who have returned in recent years. They were arrested at the airport and immediately taken to prison to serve their sentence or presented to the investigating judge who placed them in pre-trial detention. This has also happened under the previous government with a total of 12 adults and 30 minors. Under the current government it was about 1 underage child. It is clear that Belgian justice must ensure its full responsibility. Many FTFs in Belgium have been sentenced by default and their nationality has been withdrawn. Those who have not been convicted are subject to international reporting. As I said, Mr Metsu, our national security must be at the forefront. This means that our security strategy must take account of the very deteriorating security situation in the camps, but let there be absolutely no doubt: terrorists, whether they are men or women, must be tried on the ground, in the region. In the European and multilateral context, our country has always been committed to trial on the ground, together with, for example, the Syrian Kurds, who are prepared to assume their responsibilities in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u34	Mr Prime Minister, this is how your turn has been used, which I feared and warned of a little earlier. You say that you will look at the situation of women on a case-by-case basis. That's completely new, that was never discussed under Michel I. You say that the women who are truly sorry can be brought back, but who is going to judge? In six years, these women have not been questioned by any Belgian interrogation team. No one's met them there. You speak of the women who are genuinely sorry, but we have experienced it ourselves, when we were allowed to speak to 11 women, there is something like takiyya. Please don't be fooled. Only yesterday our delegation had contact with the Kurdish government in Syria. She confirmed: "If the country of origin wishes to try the foreign terrorist fighters and their women there, this is accepted by the Kurdish government in Syria. The authorities will then ask for an agreement framework and financial support to partially cover the costs of detention." I'm very sorry to have to do that homework in your place. That's where they get a real punishment. That's where the evidence is, by the way. Better send a strong signal to the Kurds today and tell them you're willing to help them out there, not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u35	Prime Minister, I see a change in the government's position. What needs to be done in any case is to get these women and children out of Al-Hol immediately and put them in Roj, which is a camp organized differently under the management of the Kurds and not this chaos, this cauldron, this Al-Hol time bomb, which is now a factory of Islamists, jihadists. It's extremely dangerous. On the other hand, the Kurds are calling for our cooperation. You say that our citizens must be tried there in the region. All right. In any case, this is the Kurds' position today. They sent you a request for judicial cooperation more than a year ago. What they are asking is that they be helped to have proof of what these Belgian nationals have done here, that they are helped to organise trials, that they are helped to detain these Belgian nationals on the spot so that they are not dangerous for them or for us, and that at last there are security concepts (which has not been the case so far), notions of justice (the victims of the attacks are waiting for them) and humanitarian reasons, you are right, for the young children because they deserve to be brought out of there urgently. They are victims of this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u36	Minister, banking is not as simple as it used to be, because there are fewer counters now, fewer bank offices and fewer ATMs. The trend in the banking sector is certainly clear, namely paying more for less service. Less service actually amounts to a flat-rate saving operation. Digital banking is nice for anyone who wants to; I always do it myself. However, it is now becoming an obligation for those who cannot do so, and that is problematic. This is not a small group, because 1 family in 5 does not know how digital banking works. They therefore bear additional costs if they want to manage their own accounts. That's just the reality. Banks should not calm us to sleep with fine words such as service and service. If half of the offices are closed, then there is no provision of services, but savings. In the end, people pay more for less. People pay more to collect money, to look into their own accounts and to review the mortgage. We are not talking about a few exceptions here, a lot of people are confronted with this. If a couple dies and the man has always had little view of the bills, he has to pay hundreds of euros if he wants to see the bills a few years ago. That's an absurd situation. Minister, can't people who can't go along with the digital trend be double punished? After all, they have less access to banking services and also have to pay extra, because they have to deal with certain things physically. What steps can you take against excessive costs? How can you ensure that everyone has access to basic services?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u37	Madam President, Minister, 10% fewer banking agencies between 2019 and 2020, 1,300 fewer distributors since 2015, it is a bleed to many citizens, neighbourhoods, villages, seniors, but also many local businesses. The prospects are not encouraging. Behind a nice packaging, the project of the four large Belgian banks – Batopin – plans to divide the number of their distributors by four. Who can still believe in added value for citizens, especially since at the same time, the same banks are closing in large numbers in the densely populated outlying areas of cities? I am thinking of Sainte-Marguerite in Liège or Jambes in the Walloon capital. These banks also flee rural areas such as Spriont or Chièvres. But the examples are legion. According to this logic, do we have to fear, for tomorrow, the closure of the distributors of the city centres and villages to the benefit, for example, of the shopping centres often located in the periphery? There's a risk. Indeed, Minister, we have no guarantee for the future. On the other hand, a distributor that just allows you to withdraw or deposit money is not even a rustin compared to the closure of a bank agency. Various parliamentary initiatives are on the table today. They have one thing in common: not to let this debate be confiscated by the banks. Is it possible, Minister, to force banks to define, with the government, the way in which a universal banking service can be set up? With regard to distributors, their distribution and accessibility, is it possible to create, as in the Netherlands, a structure for integrating representatives of consumers, senior citizens, traders or local authorities into decision-making?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u38	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the number of contactless payments has increased enormously in 2020. Over the last five years, that number has even doubled. Not only has the consumer changed his behaviour; the market has also changed: while vending machines have shot down like mushrooms in the past, they are now melting like snow for the sun. That makes sense. Innovation and digitalisation in the banking sector are a fact, as is the case everywhere. Most consumers are also involved. There are performant payment solutions, such as bank cards, contactless calls and various smartphone applications. Digital banking is a success in banking. We, too, are keen to encourage this evolution. After all, everyone has to come. Digitisation is now and without doubt even more of the future. Cash money, however, is still a legal means of payment. Currently in Belgium there are 620 ATMs per 1 million inhabitants. In the Netherlands, there are 287. The public's fear of reducing it lies not so much in the number but in the distribution. Social developments must also involve social responsibilities. Every Belgian, from 10 to 100 years old, has to participate in digitalisation wherever he lives. However, the transition must be facilitated. The banks have a full role to play. They should not only take up the challenge of digitalisation, but also continue to connect if there are difficulties. The objective must really be a coherent landscape of various payment options, depending on how the citizens are affected by this evolution, so that no consumer can be excluded. This would be very bad for the economy, consumption and the free market. This still includes a network of cash facilities. What is your view on the pending legislative initiatives in the Chamber to address the issue of the availability of cash, such as bundled ATMs from Batopin and Jofico with the banks as partners, or the ATMs in and the cash money via the shops, being the cashback? What are your plans? [[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u39	Deputy Prime Minister, many seniors' associations are mobilizing to organise a campaign denouncing the difficulties faced by seniors in the digital banking world. They would like to see measures taken not to leave the elderly forgotten and to enable them to maintain their banking autonomy. Financial institutions must be aware of the risks of digital exclusion faced by some of their senior clients. It's a reality. Moreover, the digital divide is not limited to the access of older people to banking services, but affects other vulnerable audiences and also the entire economy, which is rightly more and more oriented towards digitalisation, digitalisation and digitalisation. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, have your departments already looked at the study and analysis of the development of services to accompany this specific audience of seniors towards digitalization? Will actions be taken to help and encourage the economic world, and in particular financial institutions, to mobilize such services? Do you have any discussions with the sector? If so, what does it show? The digital public writer's track was mentioned by our Secretary of State Mathieu Michel for public services. Could a similar initiative be encouraged in the banking world? In 2003, France created the Caisse nationale de solidarité pour l'autonomy (CNSA), as well as the law on the adaptation of society to ageing, known as the "ASV law", which for the first time included the fact that it belongs to society (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your various questions. The decline in the number of bank offices is a very clear trend in Belgium and Europe. Currently, ATMs are often connected to bank offices, resulting in a plethora of vending machines in some places and a deficit in others. Batopin, the new company set up at the initiative of the Belfius banks, BNP Paribas Fortis, ING and KBC, aims to set up and manage an independent joint network of ATMs in order to optimize access to cash. These banks have set themselves the objective of enabling 95% of the Belgian population to have access to a distributor within a maximum of 5 kilometres. These distributors will no longer be linked to a particular bank and will be placed outside the banking agencies. Batopin is developing its plan for the deployment and location of distributors, the first part of which is expected to be unveiled in this month of March. The selection of locations and distributors will be phased in. Batopin also announced that the first aircraft should be operational by mid-2021. Besides this project, there is also the creation of joint venture JoFiCo, which includes banks Crelan, bpost, Argenta, Axa and vdk bank. These banks will no longer have their own network of distributors. They have recently entered into a contract for the leasing of these distributors to a third party, which will also be responsible for the maintenance and placement of these distributors on the premises. The banks will determine the location of these distributors. It still seems a little early to judge whether or not the location of these distributors is sufficient. But I can tell you that ensuring sufficient coverage throughout the country is of crucial importance to me. I am this question with the utmost attention. I hear the request for consultation with local authorities and consumer associations. This is the message I myself addressed and passed to the Batopin and JoFiCo platforms. This consultation is essential and should take place in the coming weeks. These two initiatives are part of the solution to the problem of equal access to ATMs, but in themselves they are not enough to address the wider problem of digitalisation of banking services and the digital divide. My cabinet and the cabinets of my colleagues Eva De Bleeker and Vincent Van Peteghem are talking to Febelfin to find concrete and complementary solutions to the problem. The objective is to reach a good solution through negotiations with the sector in July 2021. Moreover, as you know, bpost has undertaken in its management contract to guarantee the presence of ticket distributors where this service is not offered by another financial institution. I am in regular contact with my excellent colleague Petra De Sutter. Mrs Gilson, my administration is currently conducting studies on the digital divide for older people but also for people with disabilities. A number of options are discussed in this context, including the establishment of a universal banking service. I have already had the opportunity to speak on this subject in this rostrum. Other avenues include the revision of the 2004 gentlemen's agreement or the conclusion of a protocol with the banking sector. This is what is being discussed between my firm, Eva De Bleeker, Vincent Van Peteghem and Febelfin at the moment. The aim is therefore to identify various measures that will benefit the most vulnerable consumers in the face of the digitalisation of banking services. In particular, with regard to the French example you mentioned, the Caisse nationale de solidarité pour l'autonomy (CNSA), there is no such project at the moment in Belgium. But as you know, a European directive on the accessibility of products and services for older people and people with disabilities must be transposed before 28 June 2022 in our country. This Directive, and therefore the resulting transposition, will include measures to ensure access to banking products and services for older persons and persons with disabilities. We will therefore have the opportunity to come back to it very soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u41	Thank you, Minister, and thank you in particular for your time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u42	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive answer. I notice that you are very concerned about the subject and that you want to work quickly on a number of issues. That is very important, because a lot of people have been affected by the phasing-out. OKRA speaks of a digidwang, in which the banks force people into digitisation by their savings logic, which is good, until they can no longer compete, have bad luck and then have to pay for the costs. It is therefore important that you do so. Taking things like money and looking into their own accounts shouldn't be so hard. I would also like to stress that we see banks as an essential service and an essential player in our country. We also entrust them with a very important task, namely to manage our money. As a society, we have shown our solidarity with them. That cost us millions of euros. It is therefore time for them to act as an essential service and guarantee it for us.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u43	Minister, thank you for your answers. You mentioned Batopin's commitment (Belgian ATM Optimization), that 95% of Belgians would have a distributor in the five kilometres around them. This criterion, if applied only according to the mathematical models used by the banks today, already makes it possible to sacrifice the neighbourhoods bordering the city centres and also part of the rural areas for the benefit, for example, of the shopping centres. Attention, danger! Why? Because this mathematical model does not necessarily integrate the fact that citizens are sometimes in difficulty because a region, a village or a city lacks public transport. This mathematical model excludes densely populated neighbourhoods. I am therefore pleased that you wanted to broaden this theme, to broaden the debate through various initiatives to involve users and citizens, wherever they live. Indeed, whether banks agree or disagree, our responsibility is to provide better banking services for all citizens throughout our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u44	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am as enthusiastic as you about the initiatives taken by the market itself, including the initiatives of the two banking clusters. However, the banks and their partners do not assume their responsibilities in the aspects in which they are not interested, in my opinion, unjustly. Maybe it doesn't match their pay model. I hope that other initiatives can be supported so that the distribution of cash points can be maintained, so that each consumer and related local market can be supported. People must not remain in the cold because of the lack of private initiatives.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u45	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. Of course, we can't stop progress. It's really part of the DNA of the human being. We support the digitalisation of public and private services. This can bring many positive things to our society but it is essential to provide support for all those, such as seniors or others, who do not have access to digital tools or who fail to handle them properly. I hear there are protocols in progress. I encourage you to pursue them. Banks must play an essential role in this support so that the transition to a digital world is made without leaving anyone at the edge of the road.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u46	Madam President, Minister, this morning you received a visit from the housekeepers to your cabinet. They have given you a black book with testimonies about the circumstances in which they have to work, especially during the corona crisis. I brought you some testimonies. Someone testified that her employer had to tell her that she was going to work with positively tested clients. Mieke, someone I know personally, told me that she has osteoarthritis in her hips from all that brushing and I should tell you that. Viviane finds it terrible that cleaning aid for this wage should put their health at risk. More pay and more respect, that's what they need. Minister, do you think it is normal that they should work in such working conditions for such a low wage? Take Mieke, for example. She earns 12.06 euros, while she has nine years of seniority. In addition, a lot of cleaning helpers explain that they get 0 euros when their customers cancel. Part-time jobs, poor working conditions, uncertain statutes and low wages. It is not just the housekeepers who are facing these problems. This is also the case for many women who have been in the front line since the start of the corona crisis. It is time to value these essential professions, which are mainly performed by women, by raising the minimum wage to 14 euros gross per hour. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. Do you agree? Do you also think that minimum wages should be increased to EUR 14 per hour? What steps will you take to ensure this? What will you do to guarantee the wages of the household assistants when a customer cancels?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u47	Madam President, Minister, the FGTB-supported household workers today gave you a black book that brings us back to the 18th century. It's 2021. And yet, to hear certain household helpers, it would be like the time of the good ones to do everything for which we have no consideration. Minister, on March 8, 2021, it is in a few days and these voices that are being heard show us that the road is still very long before all women see their rights respected. When I hear certain testimonies, it makes me sick. One explains to me that since the health crisis she has received two masks and a bottle of gel. Another explains to me that she has to slalom between the parents, the children and sometimes the guests present in the house in order to get the vacuum cleaner. The service title sector still does not have a social guide to define clear health protocols. The bosses obviously don't want rules that are too restrictive. I therefore invite them to follow their small domestic workers for a day to see the working conditions and to go to the bathrooms of contaminated homes. Minister, the theatres are kept closed and, in addition to this, companies are sending women, during the health crisis, without gel, mask or gloves. It's amazing! In addition, inspection controls are not effective enough, simply because they are not carried out in the workplace or in private homes. The only choice they have is very often their salary or their health. Minister, what will you do to support these workers? How do you intend to strengthen social inspection in companies and also in the workplace? Will you ask employers' organisations like Federgon to be constructive in social consultation? (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u48	Indeed, this morning I received a delegation of workers from the service cheque sector. The sector has given me this book:Blackbook............................................................................................................................................................................. The book contains some of the many testimonies of employees that the ABVV collected. These testimonies relate to the experiences of these workers and, above all, of these workers, during the crisis of the covid – but not only. Working and wage conditions and social cooperation have long been difficult and problematic in the sector. This was, of course, the case long before the crisis, and it became even more so during the crisis. The Black Book of Home Helpers, which was given to me this morning, is a veritable cry of alarm and even, sometimes, despair. As you know, I have taken several urgent measures which concern the sector. For example, there is the protection premium for workers who were temporarily unemployed for a long time in 2020. This premium will be re-granted in 2021. The government has agreed to this. I also weighed my weight so that a sectoral agreement could finally be reached on the rules to be applied to protect workers and their customers, whereas social consultation had been at a standstill for many months, it had been lacking during the first wave and no sectoral protocol was applicable to workers; in 98% of the cases, they were workers in the securities sector, domestic workers who went to the customers' homes. For them and for them, there was no protocol during the first wave. Today, there is one, even if it is improved – I am convinced of it. In order to enforce this protocol, more than 200 controls have been carried out in the service securities sector in recent weeks. Are they totally effective? No doubt not since, as you mentioned, we are in a particular context with a triangular relationship (employer, worker and client), which makes controls more complicated than in a company where all workers are located in the same place. In this sector, controls are actually a little more complicated than elsewhere. But they were necessary, they are still necessary today, and they will still be so tomorrow, especially in the light of the elements that I was able to get to know this morning, with examples of non-compliance with the totally unacceptable rules. How can an employer justify, for example, giving only three masks to a household worker who has more than 12 clients? This is totally unacceptable. Improvements are therefore needed. Beyond the particular situation in this context of the coronavirus crisis, I would like to work structurally to give more recognition to these workers who have important societal value. They have been taken up in the essential professions and are indeed essential for a large part of the population. Tomorrow, we will have to be consistent with the decisions made during this coronavirus crisis. Their working conditions and wage conditions need to be improved. Some employers simply refuse consultation, while urgent progress is needed for workers. That is unacceptable. It is high time that social dialogue was given the place it deserves.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u49	Minister, I'm a little disappointed. I asked you two questions. Do you think that minimum wages should be raised to EUR 14 per hour? I didn't hear. What will you do if the customer cancels, will the household helpers be better protected? I didn't hear. It is quite clear to us that minimum wages should be raised to a minimum of EUR 14 per hour. That is what you promised before the elections and I expect from you today butter from the fish. On March 8th is International Women's Day. This year, too, is marked by equality for men and women. I therefore call on everyone to take action for at least EUR 14 per hour. There can be no gender equality if there is no economic equality.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u50	Minister, these shadow workers have long been among the most vulnerable in the world of work. Of course, the situation is not new, but with the covid, the cup is full. They really deserve to be safe in their workplace and they also deserve to be respected. You have indicated – I would like to point out – that 200 checks have been carried out in recent weeks. You also discussed the recognition of workers, recalling that working conditions had to be improved, while social consultation had to regain its rightful place. I am counting on you, Minister, because you are a minister of speech and action.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u51	Madam President, Minister, 'corruption again, sp.a-Hasselt'. Those are not my words, Minister. It was a title in De Morgen. And don't worry, I won't ask you any questions about the investigation into the corruption at De Voorzorg, because that's not what they're doing about an ongoing investigation. But that there are a lot of questions to be asked about funding and money flows within the mutualities, that is not new. For example, in an audit in 2018, the Court of Auditors stated that there is a general lack of transparency about the flows of money within the sickness funds and that even the Court of Auditors does not see the use of the billion euros that it receives annually for operating costs, let alone that it would have a view on the patrimony or on the non-profit organisations that are used to channel things through. This has been mentioned many times in the past. It is a way of working which, of course, opens the door wide to abuse. It turns out that again today. You will probably have found the audit I am talking about when you took over Mrs De Block's cabinet. Underneath the thick layer of dust where it has been since 2018. I have the following questions for you. What do you intend to do with the audit of the Court of Auditors, which contains very clear recommendations? Do the health insurance authorities, for example the CDZ, have a look at the structures that are now emerging at De Voorzorg? What do you think of such structures, where health insurance funds work together with non-profit organisations that manage their own property? In particular, how will you ensure that money flows within the sickness funds are transparent? Because this is about money that, by definition, should end up with the citizen, or the sick person, and not in the pockets of the sickness funds, and certainly not in the pockets of their drivers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u52	Madam President, Mrs Van Peel, you are right to point out that you cannot debate a judicial inquiry here. That is absolutely correct and I would like to say straight away that I cannot make a statement on this. If it turns out that funds intended for health insurance have been averted, let alone fraudulently, then that is a very serious matter and totally unacceptable. We are, of course, waiting for the results of the investigation, just as we are also waiting for research by the RIZIV and the insurance supervisory services. I assume that the national federation concerned will also have to and will carry out internal investigations. Money for health insurance must indeed be used for health insurance, for the well-being of patients, for the good care they need, and not for anything else. I fully agree with that, if it is your starting point to hear it. I believe that transparency in all these money flows is also very important, including in the money flows through the mutualities. I shall shortly submit to the Chamber a draft law aimed at improving transparency, as well as the quality of management from that point of view. In doing so, I am actually implementing the future pact, to which you referred, closed between the previous government and the mutualities. Very soon, I will present this draft law, which aims to clearly increase the transparency and quality of management in the interests of the sickness funds themselves and in the interests of health insurance and everyone involved.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u53	Mr Minister, I am very curious about this, because you will have to change some sacred houses, and I do not have the impression that this government will do a lot of work on it. It is high time, because these audits date back years. Moreover, the Health Insurance Fund Pact did not adopt all the recommendations from those audits. If you are going to do that exercise, I hope that you will at least ensure transparency in the flow of money so that things such as those mentioned can no longer happen. However, I would also like you to have a key debate on what the sickness funds still have to do today. We have long argued in favour of an information and advisory role for sickness funds, while the constructions and parameter formulas, which have grown historically over the years for the financing of sickness funds, have to be abandoned. We need to look at what needs to be done, how much it costs, and how this can be done as transparently as possible with regard to the citizens. You still have a lot of work to do, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u54	Madam President, Minister, you are aware of the situation of health professionals. You also know that the listings of these professionals are very problematic. After others, physiotherapists are not spared. A year ago, while the country was confined, they did not have access to protective equipment. Since then, the federal platform has been activated to ensure access to the strategic stock of essential equipment and equipment (masks, overblouses, gloves, protective goggles). Yet information, which did not reach its destination, still poses serious problems. I asked you about that. You answered me positively. Taking into account the outdated data of the Public Health FPS and INAMI, you have decided to extend the time to access the equipment for almost three months until the end of March. But today, it doesn't work optimally. The platform blocks physiotherapists. The coumacs are gathering together. Positive announcements then collapse on operationality and psychological overload is enormous in the daily life of physiotherapists. Yet they are also on the front line to treat pathologies and to help covid-19 patients with respiratory impairment, and also to treat all non-covid-19 health problems. In the light of these findings, of course, the question of their vaccination arises. It begins, but many have not always received any information. Minister, what is the state of the strategic stock of protective equipment to date? Why is it not accessible on the platform, which does not respect your announced decision? How has this extension been communicated to physiotherapists through the platform box and to professional federations? How are physiotherapists invited to be vaccinated? What is the role and work of FPS Public Health and INAMI in managing IT and identification platforms?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u55	Madam President, Mrs Taquin, the healthcare professionals concerned have been informed of the distribution of this package by mail sent to their eHealthBox. Professional organizations have also communicated on this subject. At the beginning of February, a total of 11,881 physiotherapists have already applied for this package. Distribution was initially scheduled until the end of January and was extended for a limited period until the end of March. This means that it is always possible to request a package and remove it in Red Cross distribution centres that are open two days a month. The crisis has indeed shown that there is a lack of data on health professionals active in our country. The SPF and INAMI are working on a reference cadastre to provide better information in the future, which will allow better communication in such circumstances.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u56	Minister, thank you. You confirm that there is indeed a communication problem because if at the top, it is well sent, it does not always arrive at the bottom. According to the many testimonies we receive, the professionals in the front line are courageous, continue their work with very great involvement but their confidence in the authorities, when it still exists, is reduced as the skin of grief. Lessons have been learned in February, March and April 2020. This is undeniable, but it is clear that failures persist and are still accumulating. Between general practitioners who cannot vaccinate, pharmacists who cannot test, independent nurses and physiotherapists who lack information, stocks, listings and others which are just as essential in this crisis, there is reason to ask the question of consideration for the first line. If there have been failures, check the operation, extend the delay again and quickly correct this platform so that they have the stocks they don't have! Minister, put the package on vaccination for those who have really been at the front for more than a year!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u57	Mr Minister, unfortunately there is no vaccine against mental problems. For CD&V mental health is an absolute priority. I know that you also attach great importance to this. There are three major problems for us today. First of all, there's an undertreatment. One can see that from the long waiting lists with the psychologists. Three out of ten young people do not find help, while a quarter of the psychological problems occur before the age of 27. This early intervention is an important intervention that we absolutely must do. Secondly, there is also overtreatment. Ten percent of the aid provided is highly specialised and is not really necessary. So that's a waste. Thirdly, we sail a little blind in mental health. We're not going on data, we're going on a series of assumptions. The conclusion, which has already been made by several professors, is that more of the same today is not good enough. The mental health care itself is a little sick and needs a new infusion. You've been given an infusion of 200 million euros on an annual basis. It is noted that only EUR 2.5 million is spent on the reimbursement of first-line psychologists. That system doesn't seem to work. We have already established this in a resolution of CD&V, which was widely supported. The negotiations on a new convention are not getting off the ground. In the meantime, crisis relief is provided for other groups, such as the self-employed. Aren't those wipes before the bleeding? What progress has been made with the roll-out of the strongly supported resolution in Parliament for accessible and affordable mental health care? What is the EUR 200 million spent on? I read in De Standaard that you will deploy mobile crisis teams. How is crisis aid given to self-employed people? What share is this in the EUR 200 million? Where are we on the roll-out of the transversal agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u58	Madam President, in Belgium there is indeed a need for a huge catching-up movement in mental health care. You rightly pointed out that more of the same will not help us. The development of a truly innovative approach to psychological support close to the people, very accessible, well affordable, in the first line, is supported by a budgetary effort of EUR 112 million per year. That also requires a lot of consultation. It is precisely this transversal agreement committee to which you refer and which has been set up in the meantime that is in the process of consulting. If we want to do this very innovative approach well and not want the same thing anymore, then there must also be strong support in consultation with the sector, and also with the Länder. That runs, it takes time, but it is fundamentally important to do this right. Because that takes time, I have already taken some very small additional initiatives, including strengthening the mobile crisis intervention. This is very important for children and young people. A number of other initiatives will be discussed at the Ministerial Council tomorrow. I will not say much about this, but I do think it is important to strengthen mobile teams in the short term, both for children and young people, but also for the elderly. This cannot be done today, but older people can also find themselves in difficult difficulties in these circumstances. Helping the people, helping them at home or where they're staying can be important. I would like to take short-term measures to respond to the urgent needs that exist, and at the same time I would like to bring about a genuine overhaul of mental health care, close to the people, accessible, closely integrated into the first line, in line with what the sector wants, and also in line with what those responsible in the Länder want.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u59	Minister, mental health care indeed urgently needs a reset. You provide for a number of short-term measures for young people and the elderly, which will be adopted tomorrow at the Council of Ministers. In the meantime, crisis aid for the self-employed is also provided. Apparently, that is where a substantial budget of more than EUR 50 million goes. However, we are concerned that the reforms that are being implemented today in the short term would create expectations for the future and that they would be seen as an acquired right, which would remove resources that are actually needed for the reform of mental health care. Put the resources in the places where they are needed today, because there is an absolute revolution and a paradigm shift in mental health care and we support you in that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u60	Minister, the previous government worked out a scheme which did not require social contributions to be paid for the recruitment of the first member of staff. The aim was to create jobs by encouraging small businesses and entrepreneurs to recruit employees. With, for example, the barber, the baker or the IT guy who hesitated to hire someone, still gave that extra push in the back. However, the Court of Auditors' report shows that the measure largely fails to achieve its objective. A lot of expensive birds are also being subsidised. Large companies are supposedly setting up a number of new businesses where they put their most expensive employees on the payroll, after which they ask for a reduction in their contributions. For example, for a person with a gross monthly wager of EUR 3 million, a reduction has been made, which cost the taxpayer EUR 2 million per quarter. That is not the intention, of course. The measure costs us EUR 4 billion during this legislative period and I therefore believe that we should be critical and make an evaluation. Above all, we must ensure that the money is spent on creating new jobs, not on subsidising some expensive birds with top wages. An in-depth review with adjustments is therefore urgently needed. Minister, how will you adjust the measure? How will you prevent abuse? Can a flat-rate discount offer solace? This would have the most impact on low and medium wages. What other measures are you considering? When will you come to Parliament with your plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u61	Mrs Lanjri, the reduction in the target group for first-time employees, which is important for start-ups, has been extended with conviction. After all, it is important for companies to be able to start up and decide to recruit staff. The extension is already provided for by Royal Decree of 5 January 2021. At the same time, we must take a critical look at the proper use and impact of the measure. I already requested an evaluation of the measure from RSZ on 6 November 2020. Meanwhile, there is also the audit by the Court of Auditors, which we will take into account. I expect the evaluation of the measure by the end of March 2021. On the basis of the evaluation carried out by the RSZ Management Committee and the Court of Auditors' report, we will examine what is necessary to adapt the measure if necessary and to make it as effective as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u62	Minister, as I indicated, the measure will cost us EUR 4 billion in five years, which we are willing to invest in new jobs. Let's get that straight. So we have no problem with the fact that a lot of money needs to be invested in supporting small start-ups, which effectively create new jobs. Above all, however, it does not allow some to pay their most expensive employees with this aid and therefore to have little or no effect on employment. So you will find an ally in us to evaluate the measure and also to correct it thoroughly, so that in a few years' time we can say proudly that we have provided more jobs. The taxpayer also agrees that his tax money is going to more jobs effectively. This is good for the economy and for our country. He doesn't want his money to be spent on individuals with top wages.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u63	Mr. Secretary, the horrible murder of Julie Van Espen is still fresh in our minds. The report of the Supreme Court of Justice was devastating. Your predecessor, Minister Geens, then said it was time for reflection. He had to come to terms with his conscience. He referred to a detailed plan. He had already worked a lot and accented and he would lay many additional, new accents. What are we seeing today? I have an article here that says that two of the perpetrators will only be punished with delay for a double rape of a young woman in a toilet at the Ghent Overpoort. I read that the girl was drugged, double raped, and that this was filmed, and that the perpetrators also posted their misdeeds on the Internet. The prosecutor stated in the file that she could no longer stand on her own feet. The parquet was also very clear and stated that there was rape: she could no longer give her consent. Then why such ridiculous punishments? Isn't it in such a way that we're getting back together again? It is always by such a soft approach that we provoke worse facts. It is clear that the Justice Department does not want to learn from its mistakes. Such behaviour must be restricted. Stricter penalties must be imposed, and the Flemish interest has been calling for this for decades. Minister, what are you going to do to tackle sexual violence more harshly and to punish it more severely?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u64	Madam President, Mrs Bury, rape is, under all circumstances, a repulsive act of violence. I, like you, have taken note of the judgment of the correctional court of Ghent. However, it is not for the Minister of Justice to comment on a decision of an independent magistrate. I can't, I can't, and I don't want to. As Minister of Justice, I should respect the independence of the rule of law. That is a foundation of our democracy. By the way, what do you expect from me? That I'm here to rewrite single-handed sentences every Thursday? What I will do is push up the fight against sexual violence. Last year Amnesty International reported that no less than 1 in 5 Belgian women were victims of sexual violence. These figures are unacceptablely high. In my policy statement, I say very clearly what we will do. With its project Code 37 the Antwerp parquet has doubled the number of convictions for rape in Antwerp. We'll extend that to the whole country. In the care centers, we catch victims of sexual violence. We will ensure that there is such a centre in every province of our country. However, that is not enough. The penalties for these crimes are, indeed, still too low. That's why I've decided to reform sexual criminal law. The texts for this are ready and will now be discussed in the government. The main lines are as follows: firstly, consent becomes the central concept and the common thread through sexual criminal law; secondly, it is expressly provided that intoxication can test the consent; thirdly, the penalty will be increased. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the fight against sexual violence is an absolute priority for this government and for me.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u65	Minister, your predecessor also referred to a number of measures. The Care Centers after Sexual Violence are very important, but they have nothing to do with the punishment of the perpetrator. He also mentioned an observation center in St. Gillis' prison. That can't work if the unsub doesn't even have to sit there for one day. In practice, however, we see very severe penalties for violations of the corona measures. One month in prison when a barbecue is organized. I'm not against that, you know, that should be severely punished. But the Justice Department can't work with two sizes and two weights. I really hope that the sexual criminal law you want to reform will be firm so that we can really work on it. I hope it shouldn't be like Nietzsche said: the eternal return of the same. Time and again, beautiful promises, time and time again, see how sexual violence goes unpunished. What our young women and girls need is not empty promises, but deeds.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u66	Madam President, Minister, we have been sending the same message here for weeks. For weeks and even months, since the beginning of this legislature, we have been trying to make it clear that we do not need those 34 F-35 fighters, those war machines. The PVDA is the first and only party that has always called for that contract to be cancelled. More than that, we are even getting a push in the back of the Americans themselves, because last week an Air Force General of the US Air Force himself said that the F-35 actually became the problem of what it was supposed to solve. It's a very expensive plane. It's very advanced. It is a flying data center, but it is extremely expensive and also very unreliable. Those aren't our words, they're the words of the US Air Force. We also know that the plane has 875 faults, and if it's very bad weather, it can't fly. Madam Secretary, I think we should finally look at the purchase contract. This must also be made transparent. I think the people are entitled to that, too, because we actually bought a cat, an expensive cat, in a bag. We don't need those nuclear-loaded fighters either. Invest those billions in a revival package for the economy, in a support programme for the self-employed, the catering industry. Rather invest in the many social needs that this corona crisis must alleviate, instead of investing in fighter aircraft to bomb other countries. The Belgian people have the right to know what is in that contract. It also wants to know what will happen to the EUR 12.5 billion. Will we continue to invest in the social needs that exist today? Or are we going to continue to use these resources to invest in war machines that are not needed? [[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u67	Minister, a new government is also about managing legacy from the past, and not necessarily the easiest. One of these is certainly the order placed in 2018 by Belgium for new US F-35 bomber aircraft. It is no secret to anyone, my group has never been in favour of this purchase for many reasons, whether ethical, geopolitical or budgetary. Above all, we had fought against the opacity surrounding this market. For what was called the "market of the century", parliamentary control had been extremely difficult: the government of that time too often fell behind business secrecy and defence secrecy. We were also promised positive economic returns for Belgium but never objective them, which prevented a precise follow-up of these promises. Indeed, it is as a result of this controversial market that we have obtained from the new government greater transparency and involvement of parliamentarians in future military purchases and in the monitoring and monitoring of economic compensation. We were also able to agree that the Court of Auditors would receive supervisory powers during the procurement procedure. This represents significant and important progress in terms of transparency. Minister, over the past few weeks, it has been learned that the US Air Force is preparing to reduce its controls to focus on a new, simpler, fifth-generation aircraft. This would in any case be the will of the Chief of Staff of the American Air Force, General Charles Brown. This is still challenging in more than one way. Minister, what is your reaction to General Brown's statements? What impact can this have on our order? Can we still have confidence in the manufacturer and in the quality of its product in view of these elements on the potential non-reliability of the devices? Is there any possibility in the terms of the contract to review and adapt it? Finally, today, where are we in terms of economic compensation?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u68	Minister, bad news is accumulating for the F-35. I imagine you're reading military defense literature like me. There's not a week without bad news. Once it's the helmet, then it's the radars, the third time it's the engines. We were used to this "background noise" of bad news about the F-35; but there, it's still much more serious: it's the American administration's confidence in this plane that seems to be collapsing. They did not turn away completely from the F-35, but they still stated that they wanted to leave a blank page; that they did not want to buy so much F-35; that they wanted to drastically decrease their F-35 orders. The question again arises as to whether such a purchase by the Belgian Government is appropriate. You obviously have nothing to do with it; I think you were probably even opposed to these purchases when you were in the opposition. What I am asking you to do is to be consistent with your own conviction; it is to be able to ensure that there is a parliamentary debate on this purchase, in full transparency. I hear Mr Defossé looking forward to transparency; but no, we still do not have transparency on this contract. That's where you can put your finger. What are the clauses? What elements would eventually allow us to break such a contract? What would be the military, political and budgetary consequences of such a contract? I would prefer that we ask ourselves this question today rather than ten years from now. I would prefer that we say today that this contract of the century is perhaps the break of the century, and that we do not ask ourselves this question in ten years' time by realizing that it was absolutely not an opportune purchase.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u69	Madam President, Mr De Vuyst, there were long debates in the Chamber prior to the award of the F-35 purchase, which was during the previous legislature. It is, among other things, on the basis of the conclusions of these debates that the government approved the purchase at the time. The current government has no intention of putting an end to the contract. The communication of the US authorities may seem disturbing, especially if it is withdrawn from context. De stafchef van de US Air Force, generaal Brown, zei ook: "The Air Force remains committed to the F-35. It is the cornerstone of our fighter capability." In other words, the US Air Force retains confidence in the F-35. The cost you are talking about is the total cost for the capacity, for the period 2018-2058. We then talk about all the costs, investments and operation, both from the F-16 until it is withdrawn from circulation, and from successor F-35A. This also includes the indirect costs of the two basics, such as staff, equipment and infrastructure. Mr Defossé, every year the US authorities publish a report on the results of the operational evaluation of the various weapons systems under their responsibility. With regard to the F-35, there is first of all a need to distinguish the three versions (A, B and C) because certain shortcomings relate only to versions B and C which were not purchased by Belgium, since Belgium purchased version A, a conventional take-off and landing aircraft. According to U.S. Army reports on this version A, there are no deficiencies in flight safety. The number of non-compliances affecting the operations for version A decreased from 13 in 2019 to 8 in 2020, with, for each non-compliance, a systematic correction planned in the year 2021. By comparison, it is important to note that the F-16, despite more than 40 years of existence, also has a higher number of improvement points than the F-35. Mr. Dallemagne, the elements you are referring to have not been formally communicated to the Defence. To go back to General Brown's remarks, he spoke of a study that only concerns the U.S. military and covers more than 1,700 aircraft. The purpose of the study referred to by General Brown is not to acquire a new aircraft now but to look at how research and development resources must be invested in order to have as complete a range of options as possible for combat aircraft for the next 15 to 20 years. In conclusion, the F-35 is the aircraft model chosen by the previous government after a broad parliamentary debate. The file is now at a very advanced stage which no longer allows to reverse. Moreover, if I rely on military experts, the F-35 is one of the most technologically advanced fighter aircraft to date. I always analyze what has been done in the past with a critical but also responsible look. At present, returning to this contract would not be responsible. Today we are discussing its economic interest in Belgian industries. So, with my colleagues in Finance and the Economy, I have reached an important agreement for our businesses. It allows for technology transfer and long-term production capacity in the military and, potentially, in civil aviation. This will help strengthen our companies in the air sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u70	Thank you for your answer, Madam Secretary. I'm just finding that you've radically changed the gun's shoulder. When you were still in the opposition, you also took a hard line against that F-35, and now you're defending him with paint. I'm gonna write this down. Turns out we don't need the F-35. With an upgrade program, we can keep the F-16 deployable and make it operational until 2040. You are Secretary of Defense, not Secretary of War. What will these F-35s do when they're deployed? They're bombing countries. Perhaps you have forgotten the balance of Iraq, Syria or Libya? Those countries have been destroyed. This has not combated terrorism or terrorism, but has just caused more terrorism. I would therefore urge you once again to make the contract public and to cancel it on the basis of force majeure due to the corona crisis, and also on the basis of the many technological flaws. [[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u71	Minister, thank you for your answers. As I said, this government must manage a legacy and, in any case, take decisions that it has not taken. Some regret it, others don't, but that's how it is. In any case, I understand that it is not planned and that it would be unwise to reopen this contract. Similarly, the Defence maintains confidence in this device. However, the way in which this market has been conducted should not be forgotten, so as to draw lessons for the future. When we talk about amounts as high as $3.4 billion on purchases and over 200 million annual operating costs over 40 years, it is necessary to ensure all possible transparency. I repeat: this government is committed to future military purchases. Of course, we are going to execute this agreement and set beacons so that it doesn't happen again. This is an essential democratic and good management requirement. It is also a vital duty for the population, who hears about astronomical sums, both in times of budgetary austerity - as was the case in 2018 - and in times of economic and health crisis (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u72	Minister, thank you for your answer. Here we are at the beginning of 2021. These planes are expected at best by the end of 2023. For my part, I consider that it is still possible to review this contract to see if it is the plane we need. You know, the Americans didn't get embarrassed when the Turks bought Russian missiles S4-00: they broke the F-35 contract with them. They did, but we couldn't do the same? I don't understand why. Although they have invested $1 trillion in this program, they are turning the page. Of course, they do it gradually, but they reinvest in the F-16s. They told us these chains would be stopped, but they lied to us. Lockheed Martin came here to plead the outdated character of the F-16s. But they will use them massively. Even more so, they are building the sixth generation. Madam Minister, I would like to believe you on the floor, but I still prefer that we, as parliamentarians and as we have a Military Procurement Commission, can check whether we can do better than this contract, which is definitely like the break of the century.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u73	Madam Minister, like many others, I was shocked yesterday about the Pano reportage by the images and testimonies of excessive police violence, including against minors, who were even beaten in prison. That raises a lot of questions. The testimony of the Chief Constable, who recognizes the problem, was striking. He said that the rotten apples in the corps are often known, but that he, as a supervisor, is difficult to act against. The disciplinary procedure is clearly not satisfactory, and that is really problematic. Madam Minister, the government is committed to reforming the disciplinary procedure and wants to strengthen the police by recruiting massively, increasing diversity and pursuing a strengthened integrity policy. These are all good measures, but we do not have the luxury of waiting for them. It is today that the people need to know and see that the government is going to be effective for zero tolerance against abuse of violence by the police, that it is effectively tackling the culture of silence and that it considers the confidence of citizens in the police as a valuable social asset in which to invest. Madam Secretary, what signal will you give in response to these abuses? What concrete actions will you take in the short term? For example, will you invest in bodycams or will you take other steps, because it is clear that excessive police violence damages citizens' confidence in the police, just at a time when we are asking a lot of policemen in the corona crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u74	Congratulations on your maiden speech, Mrs. Platteau. [[Applause]] )
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u75	Madam Secretary, our police are only effective if our society trusts her too. Neighborhood fathers, neighbors and young people always see it first when something's wrong. Their signal functions and declarations should therefore not be lost. The reputation of our police is therefore essential. Does it make sense to go to the police, is it safe and the police react reasonably or do I endanger other citizens? That last question is bizarre, because of course it must be safe to go to a police officer. After all, if one can no longer trust the agent, then who can? In our corps, a mass of police officers are doing their utmost to make our society as safe as possible. However, that alone is not enough. Smartphones, social media and sad news items make the impact of police violence even greater, and rightly so, because incidents such as unauthorized police violence deserve the light that is now shining on them and need to be addressed. How do we deal with such incidents without losing confidence? That is the key question. Agents should appeal to each other, their superiors should not tolerate violence and the legal system should treat everyone equally before the law. That shouldn't be more than normal. The cops are asking for that, too. However, apparently a small part of the agents still think that excessive violence can simply be tolerated. Bad enough those cops get right too. The government advocates a zero tolerance for violence against the police, but zero tolerance must go both ways, including zero tolerance for unjustified police violence. Madam Secretary, what concrete steps will you take to give the leadership the opportunity to intervene effectively?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u76	Colleagues, the reportage of the VRT to which you refer confirmed three findings I made earlier. The testimony of the policeman from Anderlecht sums up what a lot of policemen say: 'ça, c'est notre métier'. Many police officers on the ground do their utmost day after day to manage incidents, avoid potential conflicts and act without violence, often in the most difficult circumstances, especially in corona times. In addition, the reportage indicated that a limited number of police officers find it very difficult to assess the proportionality of their approach. It goes without saying that I don't approve of excessive police violence. The consequences of this can be particularly profound, especially when we talk about young people. It is not for nothing that the policy statement mentions the absolute choice of zero tolerance, zero tolerance for police violence and, of course, zero tolerance for the abuse of violence against the police. Finally, the call to renew disciplinary law and police training clicks loud, sincere and clear, also in that reportage. Without being able to make a final assessment of the facts, I could be angry, indignant and disillusioned about it. However, I believe that we must stick to the positive signals we are hearing today. After all, many police officers indicate that they find excessive violence unacceptable, also because it is an attack on the professionalism and maturity of the organisation and on the serenity with which services are to be provided to our citizens, in order to ensure the safety of many people. Together with those policemen, who are working day in, day out on the ground to ensure security, we must not be discouraged. So we are not looking the other way, but we are taking a number of initiatives. By the way, the first stones have already been laid. Two weeks ago, I announced at a meeting with the trade unions that we should look at the reform of disciplinary law. This must be done now, because too often it has been shown that this right of disciplinary action is too complex, with many different procedural periods and disciplinary authorities. It dates back to 1999, and we really need to sit around the table without taboos to review the disciplinary procedure so that a swift and adequate disciplinary procedure can be created. The goal is to radiate the culture and the values we see within the police force from the corps. In addition, I believe that training plays a key role in this type of incident. We must dare to ask ourselves whether the many challenges facing police officers, both in terms of communication and psychology and techniques of violence control and other techniques, can all be addressed in one year's training and whether all candidates have sufficient skills afterwards. It is my firm belief that the accelerated recruitment we are facing must not lead to compromises in terms of quality of training and selection. I also want to see lifelong training. Training at the school banks is one thing, but after that they also learn on the ground. The leaders must also be kept in mind that we must embrace and protect this culture and those values from unjustified violence. I visited a police school in Limburg this week, where I found that quality is being pursued with great enthusiasm. We will also have to make greater efforts in terms of diversity in the corps and proximity. That's what the policy statement said. I'm a very big believer in the proximity police. Policemen need to know the neighborhood and know the parents and the young. That can help narrow the distance between young people and police. I would very much like to put my shoulders on initiatives that can improve the relationship between young people and the police. However, that does not rule out the need to consider other means, such as the bodycams, because it remains important to focus on imaging and evidence collection. Finally, I call for any form of violence to be reported. There must be no culture of silence. Policemen must feel free to report incidents of violence so that the necessary investigations can be carried out by the General Inspection, the P Committee and the Public Prosecutor. Trust comes on foot and goes on horseback. We've taken the first steps and we're moving on. We owe that to all those policemen who perform their job with a lot of surrender, enthusiasm and integrity. We also owe this to society, which can expect us to guarantee security.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u77	Thank you, Minister, for your reply, which sets out your vision. It is good that you acknowledge the problem and that you reject excessive police violence. Our group Ecolo-Green also encourages you to focus more on community-oriented police work. We have to choose fully for police who create confidence with knowledge of the field. Of course, sometimes repression is necessary. But the binding approach is also really necessary in the long term. I would point out to certain members of the right that this binding approach is not soft at all, but that it works and is effective and that we need to focus more on it. I am also very pleased that you will keep police training under review. Indeed, the great need for new agents must not lead to too low a bar or to poor training. We therefore urge you to work urgently on the reform of police training. Ethics and social skills are extremely important. Both aspects should be an integral part of this training.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u78	Madam Secretary, thank you. I am pleased to hear that you too condemn excessive violence and that you will tackle disciplinary law. However, if a Chief Constable in De Aangel has to explain that he does not have sufficient resources to effectively remove the rotten apples, that is a very serious fact and a very serious story. He wants to, but he can't do enough. We as well as you should be the ally of anyone who wants to tackle criminal behavior. Be an ally of all the agents who ask for that approach. Let us also move quickly towards an initiative and roll out the measures needed to strengthen confidence in the police.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u79	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u80	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 3 March 2021, you have received an amended agenda for today's meeting. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 3 March 2021, you have received an amended agenda for today's meeting. Is there any comment on this? Are there any comments on this? Accordingly, the agenda was adopted. The agenda has therefore been adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u81	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mr. De Maegd, informed me that he wanted to refer to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u82	Madam President, our group has looked at the reports of the various committees which have been asked for an opinion. We still agree with the remarks made at the time by Mr Senesael of the PS, who in the Committee on Mobility stated that the cooperation agreement substantially undermines Belgian sovereignty and the protection of Belgian citizens. We do not believe, at all, that the recommendations of the Council of State on parliamentary control and judicial supervision should be integrated into this draft law, and also into the Treaty itself. The risk of abuse is simply too great. Contrary to what is often customary with the PS, objections to a draft law do manifest in our voting behaviour. The Labour Party still stands for the protection of democratic freedoms and human rights against mass databases, passenger registers and digital fingerprints. We also want to strengthen these fundamental rights in Europe and oppose this mass storage and sharing of data. There is no doubt that cross-border crime must be combated. That's kicking in an open door. There are already many agreements and means for this. In addition, this draft law did not seek advice from the control body on police information. The argument that in an agreement limited to the Benelux countries less guarantees are needed is actually nullified by the fact that the Benelux Treaty is explicitly put forward as a crowbar to introduce the same, unlimited data sharing across the European Union. That is why we will be voting against this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u83	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u84	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1440/3) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1440/3) The bill has three articles. The draft law has 3 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u85	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u86	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mrs Samyn, who refers to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u87	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, during the first discussion of this draft law in the Committee on External Relations, the sp.a rightly objected to the number and nature of the data that this new protocol throws out without much restriction. We are somewhat surprised that the sp.a subsequently dropped those objections in the Committee on Mobility, to which this draft opinion was referred. In the end, the sp.a voted in favour of this bill. This could, of course, be due to the fact that the sp.a had eventually traded the opposition banks for participation in the government. In any case, we have a number of reservations about this bill. Not only about the content, but also about the substance, about the Prüm Treaty on which this cooperation is based, and about the undemocratic way in which this has been achieved. We cannot allow the Belgian citizen's data to be opened up for use by foreign police services without adequate protection. Once again, we believe, of course, that cross-border crime must be combated, but many agreements already exist. In particular, it is dangerous for the general meeting of the Member States of the Treaty to be able to increase the number and type of data shared and to undermine judicial and democratic control over the exchange in the field. Moreover, this draft law has not been requested from the Data Protection Authority, which is required by law. That is why we will vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u88	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u89	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1479/3) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1479/3) The bill has three articles. The draft law has 3 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u90	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u91	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Laurence Zanchetta, Malik Ben Achour, Jean-Marc Delizée, Mélissa Hanus.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u92	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mrs Kim Buyst. She refers to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u93	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a law that we are putting to the vote today seeks, on the one hand, to solve simply a very concrete problem encountered on our roads by the police services and, on the other hand, to establish legislative coherence, in the light of previous reforms. Today, crossing the C23 sign by drivers of vehicles intended or used for the transport of things is a first-degree offence. This means that it is punished by a fine of EUR 58 in case of immediate collection, a significant amount but apparently insufficient for some road charterers. Indeed, it seems that many prefer to pay the fine and take the risk, for the driver, but also for the local population, of using inappropriate routes for such vehicles, mainly to save time. By increasing the amount of the fine, therefore, the competitive advantage of committing this type of offence is eliminated. This bill is part of the logical continuation of a law passed under the previous legislature for the same reasons, but for sign C21. So here we are only ensuring the consistency of the road penal system. Finally, I would like to take this rostrum to point out that the illegal crossing of sign C23 is no less serious than that of sign C21. These two panels concern different risks, but the consequences of their non-compliance are nevertheless serious. If the C21 panel is concerned with risks related to the vehicle's weight, the C23 panel is concerned with risks related to the vehicle's volume, regardless of its load. For example, a C21 sign will be used to prohibit the crossing of a bridge, whereas a C23 sign will be used for a narrow or winding road or a dangerous descent. In either case, these behaviours directly endanger the safety of people, as has already been seen in extremely serious accidents. They must therefore be considered third-degree offences. Colleagues, I won't be longer. I hope I can count on your support to make our streets and especially our roads safer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u94	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u95	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (39/3) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (39/3) The bill has 3 articles. The bill has 3 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u96	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u97	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u98	Madam President, I will report briefly on the position of my group. The present draft law extends for the first and second quarters of 2021 the measure already taken not to apply sanctions when an employer cannot pay his social security advances due to corona or when a friendly pay-off plan is concluded. A difference with the previous measure is that a pay-off plan would also be possible if the annual holiday contribution, which is usually paid during April, could not be paid because of difficulties caused by corona. In the committee, which met on 24 February, all the political groups were able to support the draft law. They indicated that it gives the necessary breathing space to self-employed and companies suffering from corona. Some groups did have a number of questions, including the budgetary impact. On this point, the Minister replied that the number of employers using a pay-off plan is not so different from the previous one, but that the amount is larger. For the precise figures, I should like to refer to the written report. In addition, a number of political groups also asked for perspective in the aid measures, to which the Minister referred the aid package which has just been approved by the government and which extends the aid until the end of June. In conclusion, I would also like to say that our group can support this draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u99	Of course, there is no doubt that the corona crisis has hit our companies hard. It is therefore more than necessary that companies receive maximum support. Many companies were faced with losses and need support measures that can provide them with oxygen to get through this difficult period. The companies are deemed to pay their advance payments for the RSZ contributions in good time and, in normal circumstances, a fine is due in the event of late payment. In 2020, it was decided not to provide for sanctions for the first and second quarters by means of a power of attorney decision. This was also applied through the law of 24 November 2020 for the third and fourth quarters. In addition, there is the possibility of concluding a payment plan so that these expenditures can be distributed. This is, of course, also necessary. A September study by Graydon commissioned by the VBO has also shown that around 66,000 intrinsically viable companies have come into financial difficulties as a result of the corona crisis. They face significant liquidity problems. The continued need for security measures has not made it easier for some companies either. Especially for the smaller and younger companies, these are very difficult times. The comprehensive package of support measures, including those of the Länder, was and is therefore more than necessary. The fact that RSZ contributions can be repaid through a pay-off plan is very important to address some of those liquidity problems. We have a vision of a better future and a recovery of the economy, but we are far from there. The support measures, but also the preparation of a recovery plan, are absolutely necessary. We therefore fully support this measure in the interests of our companies and in anticipation of better times.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u100	Mr President, I shall be brief. Our group will support these measures. It gives the necessary breathing space to the companies and self-employed who have been very badly affected during this crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u101	Mr President, this draft law is an extension of the existing measures whereby employers can spread and postpone social contributions without paying premiums or fines for the current and next quarter. This is a measure which welcomes the Flemish interest. It is, of course, a good thing that we want to give the necessary financial space to companies that employ staff and suffer from the corona crisis. In fact, the RSZ contributions to wages entail heavy costs for the companies. If the companies cannot pay this directly, they can agree on a payment plan and will not be fined or charged any costs, both on the actual payments and on the advances that many companies have to cover. That is, of course, only deferment of execution because the actual payments are not forgiven. The invoice follows and it is only to what extent the relay will enable the companies to settle the debt and at what time. However, this law does not determine how long a payment plan may last. It will also depend on the goodwill of the official concerned by the RSZ. The Minister promised uniform guidelines in this area. We hope that they will also be followed up, so that the equal treatment of the various employers is ensured. However, some comments were made in the opinion of the Council of State. This venerable institution has often protected us from stupidity. That is why we often follow their advice. The technical comments were addressed. However, no advice was sought, as required by law, from the management committee of the RSZ or from the NAR. Moreover, the urgency of the matter was not called for in order not to seek such an opinion. I have already asked the Minister twice in committee why this was not done. I will repeat my question a third time. Why wasn't that advice asked? Or, as the Council of State pointed out, this is likely to cause problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u102	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u103	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1773/3) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1773/3) The bill has four articles. The draft law has 4 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u104	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled, the articles that have been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u105	Not related Without report
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u106	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u107	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1799/1) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1799/1) The bill has three articles. The draft law has 3 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u108	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u109	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 27 January 2021, I propose that Mrs Catherine De Bruecker be awarded the honorary title of Federal Ombudsman. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 27 January 2021, I propose that Mrs Catherine De Bruecker be given the title of the Federal Ombudsman. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u110	At the request of the authors, I propose that the following bill be referred to the Committee on the Interior, Security, Migration and Administrative Matters: - proposal for a law criminalising membership or collaboration with a group that advocates discrimination or segregation, No. 450/1. At the request of the proposers, I propose that you refer the following bill to the Committee on Home Affairs, Security, Migration and Administrative Affairs: - legislative proposal to criminalise membership or cooperation with a group in favour of discrimination or segregation, No. 450/1. This bill had previously been sent to the Justice Committee. This bill was previously sent to the Justice Commission. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u111	The government called for urgency pursuant to section 51 of the Regulations when the bill amending the Coordinated Hospitals and Other Care Facilities Act of July 10, 2008, was introduced with respect to the application of pre-control of concentrations for clinical networking between hospitals, No. 1817/1. The Government requested the urgency statement, pursuant to Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure, when submitting the draft law amending the co-ordinated law of 10 July 2008 on hospitals and other care establishments, as regards the application of the prior control of concentrations of clinical networking between hospitals, No. 1817/1. I give the floor to the government to develop the emergency request. I give the floor to the Government to explain the urgency question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u112	Mr President, the reasons for urgency are as follows. In general, legal certainty must be provided to the various players as soon as possible, whether they are hospitals or the Belgian Competition Authority. As is well known, hospitals and hospital networks are already under severe pressure. They are caught by two legal obligations: firstly, the establishment of the hospital networks by 1 January 2020, subject to prior control by the Belgian Competition Authority; secondly, the obligation to notify each concentration to the Belgian Competition Authority and the prohibition, on penalty of a fine, of carrying out that operation before obtaining prior consent from the BMA. The request for urgency is intended to put an end to that conflicting situation as soon as possible. Moreover, the aim is to implement as soon as possible the law of 28 February 2019 establishing the local networks of clinical hospitals and thus also the legislation or draft laws whose implementation depends on the speedy adoption of the draft law for which urgent treatment is now requested.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u113	Thank you, Mrs Kitir. I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u114	You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. If there are no comments on this subject, I consider that these proposals have been taken into account. I refer the proposals to the committees responsible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If there is no objection, I consider the consideration of these proposals to be adopted. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be forwarded to the committees responsible. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. I also propose that you take into account and refer to the committee responsible: - the motion for a resolution (Mr André Flahaut, Mrs Laurence Zanchetta and Mr M. Malik Ben Achour, Patrick Prévot, Christophe Lacroix and Hervé Rigot) to make the VOCID-19 vaccine a global public good, No. 1815/1. I also propose that you consider and send to the committee responsible: - the motion for a resolution (Mr André Flahaut, Mrs Laurence Zanchetta and Mr Malik Ben Accour, Patrick Prévot, Christophe Lacroix and Hervé Rigot) requesting that the COOVID-19 vaccine be made available to a global public, No. 1815/1. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u115	Mr Hedebouw, you are asking for the urgency of the proposal for a special law reducing by half the allocations and subsidies granted to political parties, No. 1828/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u116	Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, this debate has once again re-emerged following the El Kaouakibi dossier, which has covered the chronicle for the last two weeks. It is clear to us that it is time to reduce the contributions of the political parties. We will have a debate in the future on the keys we can use. Here, however, it is intended to carry out a linear reduction of all donations. Colleagues, that is why it is a special law, because there are also dotations in Flanders. You know that the large lasagna in Belgium is also a large lasagna of party subsidies. We therefore hope, of course, that the urgency of our proposal will be approved.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u117	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u118	I thank Mr Piedboeuf for presiding for a few moments.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u119	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Commission on Mobility, Public Enterprises and Federal Institutions on 23 February 2021. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Commission for Mobility, Public Enterprises and Federal Institutions of 23 February 2021. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 102/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Frank Troosters; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr. Nicolas Parent. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 102/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Frank Tusters; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Nicolas Parent. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u120	Colleagues, in its policy statement, the federal government has indicated that it wants to encourage people to take the train more often, that it wants to increase the supply of rail sensitively and that it wants to improve the connection with foreign rail networks. In the light of these objectives, it is incomprehensible and even unacceptable that Flanders, more specifically Limburg, does not have any direct rail links on the eastern side to the Netherlands and the economically important German Roer region. Neither does Flanders have a direct connection to the internationally important three-country route, a railway link connecting the German Aachen with the Dutch Maastricht and the Belgian station Liège. However, the infrastructure needed for a rail link between Hasselt and Maastricht is largely available. Railway line 20 is already being driven electric from Hasselt to Bilzen. From the rest to Maastricht, the bed is largely intact. A study, made by an expert team of former railway company employees, Remembrance Committee Line 20, shows that the reactivation of the rail section that is no longer being ridden at the moment should be possible for a relatively limited cost. Outside this House, the Flemish Parliament is now desperately stuck in the implementation of the Spartacus file line 1, a rapid tram link between Hasselt and Maastricht. One is confronted with an out of the pan swinging cost picture, limp potential studies that touch neither side nor shore, and a connection between two cities that does not reach the station in either city. It is therefore crucial that a possible Dutch plan to issue a permit for the demolition of the Maasbrug by the provincial government of Nederlands Limburg is not carried out. The destruction of this strategically important bridge would make future train traffic to Maastricht via railway line 20 permanently impossible and cause permanent economic damage and mobility damage to Flanders. We therefore call on the government to immediately initiate the necessary consultation with the provincial government of Dutch Limburg in order to prevent the destruction of the Maasbrug, and to take the necessary steps to re-activate and operate railway line 20, so that train traffic between Hasselt and Maastricht can be restored.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u121	Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Vote result / Uitslag van de steming.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u122	Yes 75 Yes No. [[25]] No Abstentions 21 Abstensions Total 121 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u123	These inquiries were developed in the National Defence Commission on February 24, 2021. These interviews were held in the Committee for Defence of 24 February 2021. Three motions were tabled (MOT No. 80/1): - a first motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Annick Ponthier; - a second motion of recommendation was tabled by Messrs. Theo Francken and Peter Buysrogge and Mrs Darya Safai; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr. André Flahaut. Three motions were tabled (MOT No. 80/1): - a first motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Annick Ponthier; - a second motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Theo Francken and Mr Peter Buysrogge and Mrs Darya Safai; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr André Flahaut. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u124	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the file on the C-130 machines which, after 50 years of loyal service, have been replaced by a successor, has given rise to quite a stir in our committee over the last few months. The reason for this was, of course, the decision that Minister Dedonder made with regard to the storage of the last aircraft, the CH-13. The military summit's advice on this matter has been withheld for more than six weeks, despite repeated pressure, through all sorts of channels. Afterwards, of course, it became clear why. The army top, as well as the local government of Steenokkerzeel, the non-profit organisation Dakota in Melsbroek: they all put Melsbroek first as a preferred scenario. They did so on the basis of sound arguments. However, unlike all these opinions of bodies and people, Minister Dedonder decided at the last minute not to follow this advice and to move to storage in the 1st Wing in Bevekom. Not by chance in the backyard of a former defence minister, present here, who seems more and more to take up the role of shadow minister and who seems to pursue other interests. The reason to store the last aircraft in Melsbroek, however, is based on well-founded arguments in terms of budget, not least in terms of maintenance, expertise, visibility, public access, storage in an existing hangar, etc. However, it was not to be of any benefit to the Minister and she pushed her will one-sidedly. So it became a symbolic dossier, a symbol of ill-thought-out and ill-founded decisions and falsehoods too, and also a symbol of a dedain for Parliament, and a symbol of the old political culture, the un-know-it-your-own politics, which we had hoped this new young guard would get rid of. That turned out to be vain hope. The Flemish Interest always puts the priority on good and sound governance. For this reason, our motion of recommendation calls for common sense to prevail and for the storage of the last C130 device to be allocated to the site of Melsbroek.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u125	Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Résultat du vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u126	Yes 79 Yes No. 51 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 130 Total The simple motion was adopted. As a result, motions for recommendation are overturned. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motions of recommendation lapse.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u127	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u128	Yes 121 Yes No. [[12]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 133 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1440/4) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1440/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u129	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u130	Yes 122 Yes No. [[12]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 134 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1479/4) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1479/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u131	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u132	Yes 112 Yes No. [[25]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 137 Total Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent. (39/4) Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (39/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u133	Vote on Amendment No 1 by Catherine Fonck to Article 2. (1773/4) Vote on Amendment No 1 by Catherine Fonck on article 2. (1773/4) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u134	Yes 34 Yes No. 102 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. (Mr Servais Verherstraeten, like his group, voted)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u135	Vote on Amendment No 2 by Catherine Fonck to Article 3. (1773/4) Vote on Amendment No 2 by Catherine Fonck on article 3. (1773/4) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for that vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u136	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u137	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u138	Yes 138 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 138 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1773/5) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1773/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u139	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u140	Yes 139 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 139 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1799/4) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1799/4) (Mr Servais Verherstraeten, like his group, voted)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-04-definitief-55-plenair-ip090x.u141	We must approve the agenda for next week's sitting. We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for next week's sitting. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, March 11, 2021 at 2.15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 11 March 2021 at 2.15 p.m.
