ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u1	Minister, a retroactive plastic tax will be introduced in 2023 from 2021. The proceeds of this new tax will be used to finance the European budget, as a result of the new own resources decision adopted here. This is also reflected in the first report of the Supreme Court of Finance that we were allowed to receive in July 2021. The own resources decision provides for a flat-rate reduction for countries whose per capita gross national income is below the average of the European Union. Neither Belgium nor our neighbouring countries are expected to receive a reduction in their contribution. What's the logic of that? What is the argument behind this arrangement? Is it true that the purpose of this measure is to reduce non-recycled plastic waste? Then why is the flat-rate reduction in the plastic contribution based on GNI and not, for example, on the level of non-recyclable packaging waste in a Member State? The European budget for 2021 does not report a concrete amount for this plastic tax. We also have no estimates of the Belgian administration. The Netherlands has already done their homework. In the meantime, we have received these figures. The Dutch government budget estimates the plastic contribution for 2021 at EUR 216 million, which would amount to EUR 232 million in financial year 2025. Mr Minister, can you give the corresponding estimate of the plastic tax for Belgium for 2021 to 2025? What is the estimate for the part to be borne by Flanders? This plastic tax can only be paid for the Belgian Treasury if it is decided to charge more than EUR 0.8 per kilogram for non-recycled plastic in this country. Is this an option that is being considered in the context of the so-called broad fiscal reform? Will this tax also contribute effectively to reducing the circulation of plastic? This will be approved with retroactive effect for 2021. For this year, it seems to be a purely financial contribution without an impact on plastic waste. What will happen to this payment section if it is successfully recycled and there are fewer kilos of plastic on the market? Are the payments being increased or will the amount per kilo of waste be increased so that the European budget can count on the same tax revenue?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u2	The own resources decision, which was adopted after consultation between the European institutions and the Member States, has now been adopted by all Member States. The plastic contribution is part of the greening of the European Union's own resources. By recycling more plastic packaging, Member States can see some of their contribution to the functioning of the European institutions fall, while the rest of the Member States' contribution to the functioning of the European institutions are subject to more classic mechanisms. The flat-rate reduction according to gross national income should be situated within this framework. For 2021, the non-recycled plastic packaging waste is estimated at 188,765,8 tonnes, corresponding to an amount of EUR 151 million. For 2022, the non-recycled plastic packaging waste is estimated at 191,746,9 tonnes, amounting to EUR 153 million. The estimates are based on the 2018 figures and are therefore very conditional. For example, they do not take into account the new, stricter calculation method for recycling figures, which will be applied from 2020. Reporting shall take place in 2022. They do not take into account the higher levels of plastic recycling resulting from the use of the new pmd bag as of 2019 and the increased recycling of commercial packaging waste, also since 2019. Moreover, given the uncertain recycling figures, no estimate is made for the period after 2022. I also note that the plastic contribution is a financing mechanism for the European Union and is not intended directly for the financing of the Member States' treasuries. You ask whether it is envisaged to charge more than EUR 0.8 per kilo for non-recycled plastic waste, but waste and waste taxation are not federal competences.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u3	Minister, these are remarkable figures, 151 million in 2021, an estimate of 153 million in 2022, a little over 300 million in two years. In your analysis and answer, I think you are rather light about that. It is not so much a pragmatic instrument of its own, but rather an ideological position of the European Commission. Despite this plastic tax, the European Commission is getting more political ground, because it can make its own policy with this own means. Again and again, there is a new step in which the European Union intervenes in the taxation of the Member States. When the European Union will soon need money, it will be enough to increase that base, the price per kilo, with a draw for more money, and that is something we absolutely want to avoid. The federal European Union is more and more within reach, actually a Belgium in size. In the end, we give tax powers, tax control to Europe, something we deeply regret.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u4	Madam President, Minister, the Ghent Court of Appeal has given a successful case to a company by recognizing the tax deductibility of the criminal transaction that it had concluded on the basis of Article 216bis of the Code of Criminal Investigation. At first instance, however, the court found the transaction to be non-deductible. This is particularly disturbing because, in class justice, which allows large financial offenders to buy back their trial, would add class taxation, since, under section 53(6) of the Income Tax Code, a simple plumber, for example, cannot deduct the fine that he would have received for improper parking at a customer. On the other hand, someone who has committed major tax fraud and who, in order to avoid a trial, has entered into a criminal transaction can deduct it taxably. This kind of judicial decision is totally incomprehensible and also contradictory between the Court of Appeal and the Court of First Instance. On the other hand, by admitting that the Ghent Court of Appeal has rightly admitted the deduction of the criminal transaction, the question is whether such deductibility remains in force after two laws after the transaction was decided: the Act of 25 December 2017, which extended the scope of Article 53, 6°, CIR 92, and the Act of 18 March 2018, which amended Article 216bis of the Code of Criminal Investigation. The doctrine seems divided on the issue. Thus, in a recent article, counsel for the complainant in question argues that these legislative amendments do not invalidate the "practical" tax deductibility of criminal transactions. Minister, do you confirm that, as stated in the press, the SPF Finances has brought an appeal against the judgment of the Ghent Court of Appeal? What is your position on the deductibility of criminal transactions, before and after the legislative amendments of 2017 and 2018? Are there other cases of a criminal transaction deducted by tax? How much? If some of these cases have been the subject of a judicial dispute, what have been the outcomes? Are you considering amending the law to prevent any deduction of criminal transactions?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u5	Minister, in October 2020, the fifth court of appeal in Ghent was seized on a 2015 dispute that had its own origin in a tax fraud committed from 2010 to 2012. An agreement had been reached in 2014: the company had paid the evaded tax as well as a transactional sum equal to 65% of the tax to be paid, subject to the abandonment of the prosecution by the Public Prosecutor's Office. However, the company wished to deduct this amount paid in respect of professional expenses. Under the sixth paragraph of Article 53 of the CIR92, which provides that fines are not deductible, the tax authorities are logically opposed to this claim for tax deductibility. This position was confirmed by the Bruges Court, which did indeed consider the sum to be criminal. More recently, in July, the Ghent Court of Appeal handed down a judgment that ran counter to the positions of the tax authorities and the Bruges Court. For the latter, the transaction was not imposed by a judge under a criminal law, so it is not a "penalty" and therefore the amounts paid in this criminal transaction can therefore be regarded as professional expenses and be tax deductible. From my point of view, it cannot be considered that this is a normal operation of a company. This court decision makes it clear that the issue is contentious and that interpretation is possible since court decisions are rendered in different directions. Minister, what is your view of this situation? Do you confirm that the State has indeed brought an appeal in cassation in this case? Are you aware of any other cases of criminal transactions that have been taxed or for which a court dispute exists or has existed?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u6	Mrs Cornet, with regard to this issue, my administration is not aware of a judgment of the Ghent Court of Appeal dated July. An appeal in cassation was lodged against the judgement of the Ghent Court of Appeal of 13 October 2020. The laws of 25 December 2017 and 18 March 2018 have not changed the scope of the 6th paragraph of Articles 49 and 53 of the Income Tax Code, according to which criminal transactions are not deductible as professional expenses. In the light of Articles 49 and 53, all fines are excluded from the classification of professional expenses, regardless of their criminal nature. The tax deductibility of transactions has, on the other hand, been accepted by the Ghent Court of Appeal, although this is in contradiction with the logic of the transaction as referred to in Article 216bis of the Code of Criminal Investigation. Consideration is currently being given to whether it is necessary to clarify the current legislation in order to confirm the exclusion as a professional expense of sums of money paid as referred to in Article 216bis of the Code of Criminal Investigation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u7	Minister, one sentence of your answer calls on me. You said it was necessary to clarify the law. But a court of appeal made a decision on the basis of that law. His interpretation of this law seems contrary to the one you seem to be defending because, if I understand correctly, you feel that criminal transactions cannot be taxed. You're saying we're looking at the question of whether it's necessary to clarify things. It seems obvious to me that clarification is necessary, given that a court of appeal has made a decision to that effect. I wonder even if a legislative amendment would not be necessary for clarification. Anyway, your answer surprises me! I expected a little more voluntarism to prevent this kind of situation from happening again.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u8	Minister, thank you for your answer. I am concerned by the fact that the lawyers said that this was quite pleadable. This is the very definition of tax evasion. Indeed, there is a question of avoiding a tax in a completely legal way. In any case, one court ruled that it was legal, the other not. This is a context in which it is legitimate and normal to combat all forms of escape and fraud. It is normal that everyone should be able to contribute in good faith and proportionately to the community. In this context, I believe that we need to make it clear that the amounts of criminal transactions are not tax deductible. I feel a certain indignation about this question. This indignation is at the height of the need to send a clear message, Minister. I tabled a text to that effect yesterday in order to clarify the legislation, since there does indeed seem to be something that falls within the scope of interpretation. In my view, clarifying the law means reducing everyone's ability to do tax evasion, which is good for the community. I therefore hope that we will have the pleasure of working together on this clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u9	Mr Minister, first of all I would like to thank you for the excellent results you have achieved in the negotiations with the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, in particular on the fund for the municipalities in which frontier workers reside. Indeed, all the mayors in the province of Luxembourg shared the same fear. If this fund undergoes a major change and is no longer paid out to the municipal budgets by the current mechanism, we will no longer be able to make a financial contribution in our communes. So you have a great success on your part. You also extended the telework agreement until 31 December 2021. Thank you, too. You also managed to add another ten days to telework – 34 it seems to me. However, it was expected that up to 48 days of telework would be possible without the border being imposed in Belgium. Why is it not possible to go further? I imagine that this limitation is not even political because, if I understood correctly, the Grand Duchy wants workers to actually be able to work more days in telework. Why can't we end up in the 48 days almost promised so far to workers by some of your predecessors in previous years? For the rest, know that we are very grateful to you in the province of Luxembourg for the good negotiation with the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, in particular with this "luxembourgeophone" community of Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u10	Thank you, Mr. Arens. I think, of course, that a good agreement has really been reached with the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. To answer your questions, in 2019, former Prime Minister Charles Michel and his Luxembourg counterpart Xavier Bettel made a commitment to start negotiations to revise the 24-day rule. These negotiations took place this summer and agreement was reached: the extension of the tolerance rule to 34 days, not 48 days. These negotiations also dealt with the budgetary aspect of the dossier. A new amendment providing for the extension of the tolerance rule to 34 days was already signed in Luxembourg on 31 August. The new rule will apply from the 2022 taxable period. The big difference between the agreements of 2019 and those of 2021 is that the first was a political commitment, while the current agreement has already been translated into a signed amendment. Of course, the latter will have to be approved by Parliament. With regard to your last question, I can confirm that the covid-19 agreement was extended until the end of the year.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u11	Thank you, Minister. Of course, you understand that border workers want us to move even further. And I know, like everyone else, that telework will be part of the landscape of the future of our society. It also makes it possible, let us be clear, to have quite a different mobility. To Luxembourg today, mobility is becoming increasingly difficult from Belgium. Thank you very much, Minister, for this negotiation. I suggest you continue in this direction, since you are really on the right track. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u12	When it's good, you have to say it. Every time, we'll get it out. It'll be a gimmick.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u13	Madam President, Minister, I would also like to be able to congratulate you one day with so much warmth on the subject we are going to address now. I have no doubt that this will be the case. My question concerns a rather serious subject, namely the floods that hit Wallonia hard on 14 and 15 July, and even more heavily the Vesdre basin. These floods have multiple consequences in a wide range of areas. Living in Verviers, I have been able to check it on the ground in the last few weeks, following my meetings and the interrogations that were addressed to me. On the tax side, I found that the issue of cadastral income was a regular topic. I know that a procedure exists when a property is damaged to the point of suffering a "definitive" loss of value. In this case, the owner must apply to the Administration for a re-evaluation of the FPS Finance Measures and Evaluations. This possibility therefore exists for the victims. However, it does not evacuate all the questions that arise. What will happen, for example, to declarations 43B (end of renovation work) filed before the disaster for developments that often no longer exist? These owners live in fear of a revision of the cadastral income coming to tax upgrade their property, even though they have lost everything. This leads me to seek your opinion on the following two avenues of solution. On the one hand, should we not consider, in the affected areas, provisional freezing of certain procedures initiated just prior to the July events such as those resulting from the filing of a Form 43B? On the other hand, why not start a reflection on a possible revision, and according to well-established criteria, of the cadastre of these regions?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u14	Madam President, Minister, as you may know, Mr. Ben Achour and I come from the same area. It is therefore normal for us to question you on common issues related to the sad floods that took place this summer. Like Mr. Ben Achour, myself a resident of Theux, was arrested by many people in this disaster zone on the tax issue of cadastral income. It is quite legitimate for them to question this question. Some have entered a renovation file or documents to certify the completion of this work. However, some works in progress or barely finished are finally completely destroyed. Minister, I will ask you two questions. Are you aware of this problem? Are you considering a reflection on the revision of cadastral income for the affected regions, according to criteria to be defined? I think that, in the end, we could even suspend some of the files that were introduced just before the floods as part of a request for renovation. The current situation is indeed problematic and it would be inappropriate to come with revised cadastral incomes while the citizens have been heavily affected by this disaster. Thank you already for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, I am well aware of the impact of the floods of mid-July on all buildings in the affected area. This disaster affects 209 communes in the five Walloon provinces. My administration is closely following this situation in collaboration with the municipalities. Pursuant to Article 1473 of the CIR, it is necessary for the citizen to voluntarily declare changes to his or her property. In a number of cases, therefore, a declaration will be required. Given the extraordinary circumstances, my administration will show flexibility and administrative tolerance with respect to those who do not comply with this formality or who do so outside the deadlines. In addition, a consultation is currently under way with the Union of Towns and Municipalities of Wallonia, with a view to accompanying the citizen in carrying out these formalities. At the moment, my services place priority on the follow-up of these declarations. On the basis of the taxpayer's returns, the treatment of tax situations is carried out for each individual immovable in a situation on 1 January of each year. For all property that has suffered flood damage this year - for the tax situation as of January 1, 2022 - two cases may arise depending on whether the property is significantly altered, i.e. severely damaged, or not. In the event of a significant change, a modification of the cadastral income will be made. Otherwise, there will be no reassessment. In both cases, a request for a reduction of the property discount may be submitted to the Walloon authorities responsible for this tax. My administration's letters to taxpayers have been adapted to meet their expectations. Furthermore, I would point out that Article 490 of the Income Tax Code gives the mayors the right to request an extraordinary revision of cadastral income.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u16	Thank you for these answers, which indeed provide relatively concrete avenues for a solution; I thank you for that. I have particularly noted the possibility, offered to the mayors, of requesting a general revision of the cadastral income. The message will of course be transmitted. As far as the more individual cases are concerned, I understand that there are also avenues for solutions that will be exploited. I don't doubt it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u17	Thank you, Minister, for your clarification and for all the attention you pay to this issue. Thank you for letting us know the possibility that exists for the mayors to review in an extraordinary way. I will not fail to question my mayor about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u18	Minister, the non-profit organisation Over the Clouds recently came into financial difficulties due to corona and their dependence on the proceeds of De Warmest Week. The fact that the non-profit association is not recognised by the FPS Finance is an important factor in the financial difficulties, as donations to this non-profit association do not enjoy a tax advantage. The non-profit association had no chance of being recognised because its activity falls outside the categories that determine whether a non-profit organisation can be recognised. Minister, why does the law only provide for a limited number of categories of activities that determine whether a non-profit organisation can be recognised? Why not work with recognitions based on effective social added value? Shouldn't there at least be a procedure to give non-existent non-profit organisations a chance of recognition? The law also provides for different recognition conditions depending on the type of activities the non-profit organisation carries out. For example, an organisation such as Kaira vzw, which aims at sustainable development, should be subsidised by the State to be eligible, while there is no such condition for non-profit organisations managing an animal shelter or providing assistance to developing countries. How do you explain these differences? Recently, the issue of the dual recognition of Flemish and French-speaking cultural institutions in Parliament was also raised. In view of all these cases, will you take steps to change the terms and categories of recognition? Are there any progress or prospects in this dossier?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u19	The recognition of an institution that can receive tax-deductible gifts is a favor that the government provides with taxpayers' money. It is a burden on the budget and therefore something that must always be well motivated and based on a law. We have an ideal instrument for this, namely the exhaustive listing in the Income Tax Code. Recognition based on effective social added value certainly doesn't sound illogical, but does open the door to arbitrariness, because of the vagueness of the concept. No application file has currently been submitted to the competent department for the non-profit organisation Boven de Wolken. It has therefore not been officially examined whether this non-profit association is entitled to recognition. In order to obtain recognition as an institution engaged in sustainable development, the conditions of the Law of 5 May 1997 on the coordination of federal policies on sustainable development must be met. Sustainable development is very broadly defined in that law. This allows a wide range of activities to be covered by this definition, which increases the risk of abuse of tax relief for gifts. What these specific institutions are dealing with is not always easy to control for the administration. If they meet the conditions of the above-mentioned law, they will also receive federal subsidies. You cited a number of examples, such as the management of an animal shelter or development aid to third world countries. Since it is a specific definition of a specific purpose, it is easier to control it. I suspect that, with your question on double recognition, you are referring to the socio-cultural institutions recognized by the Communities. Despite the fact that it is the Communities which grant the recognition, my administration must check file by file and apply its own legislation. I am well aware that we must pay attention to the problem and hence I am consulting with the Communities on how to deal with it from now on.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u20	Minister, I understand your argument that we are opening the door with vague wording as social added value. On the other hand, conditions work very restrictively and do not always take immediate account of social developments. I worked in cybersecurity for a while and there was the motto: keep the bad guys out. That has now evolved to a motto let the good guys in. In other words, we check to see if there are any bad guys that we're gonna pull over. I am convinced that we need to work in the same way: we need to ensure that organisations with social added value get access to the system as easily as possible and certainly eliminate outdated contradictions in the conditions. I'll take note of your willingness to consider logical relaxations. I'd be happy to work with you on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u21	Minister, the Swiss bank UBS has helped Belgian taxpayers fraud the tax, and has even outsourced customers in this direction. This fraud and incitement to fraud would have lasted several years. The operation was as follows: Swiss employees of UBS contacted wealthy Belgians to convince them to open a bank account in Switzerland, the amounts of which were not disclosed to the Belgian tax authorities, via front companies located in tax havens. The amounts are colossal and would amount to more than €4 billion in 2016. This is not a first for UBS since it was the subject of a similar investigation in the United States and also in France and Germany in 2012. In Belgium, this case was entrusted to Judge Claise. At the beginning of 2016, he found that he had sufficient evidence to also charge UBS Switzerland for the alleged offences. At the end of June, UBS entered into a 50 million criminal transaction with the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office. If I look forward to seeing this money go back to the state coffers, I am surprised at the low amount of this criminal transaction. In 2019, the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office had concluded a friendly settlement in a similar case involving HSBC, amounting to €294.4 million, or six times more. In France, UBS Bank was fined €3.7 billion in first instance, in addition to €800 million in damages paid to the French State. Minister, has the Chamber of Council validated this transaction? In your opinion, is this criminal transaction consistent with the intensity of fraud? Is it sufficiently dissuasive? The tax criminal transaction requires, according to Article 116a of the ICC, that the taxpayer also pays the full tax in addition to the transaction, and that the administration therefore expresses its agreement. Is an amount added to the 50 million or is it considered that the 50 million will cover not only the transaction but also the tax evaded? Thank you for your answers to my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u22	Dear colleague, on a preliminary basis, it should be pointed out that the conclusion of a criminal transaction under the Code of Criminal Investigation does not entail the recognition of guilt. I therefore draw your attention to the fact that the factual elements that you refer to in the first paragraph of your question, which you seem to consider established, do not necessarily correspond to a judicial truth. The transactional amount paid by UBS bank is the facts that were charged with it and that you refer to in your question. The determination of this sum falls within the exclusive jurisdiction of the King's prosecutor. The Code of Criminal Investigation to which you refer concerns the assumption that the person to whom a criminal transaction is proposed is liable for tax in relation to the facts concerned. In this case, as far as we know, the foreign bank was not in this case. The tax debt is, in fact, the loss of profits due to taxes evaded by Belgian customers and the foreign bank who used the services offered by the bank to remove their assets from the control of the tax administration. The tax administration continues to recover these amounts through proceedings against these taxpayers, only part of which can be identified on the basis of available banking data. The transaction amount therefore does not cover taxes evaded by the bank's customers. With regard to the question of whether the Chamber of Council has validated these transactions, I invite you to address the relevant Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u23	Madam President, Minister, thank you for the clarifications you have given me. I acknowledge that I failed to indicate that this was fraud or alleged guilt. Having said that, I understand that the administration continues to claim the taxes evaded from the persons concerned, but also that not all are known. Some of these taxes will probably never return to the State funds. On the other hand, in our previous hearings on regularisations, we have heard that the OECD's pyramid is encouraging us to make the most persistent fraudsters pay more and to impose really dissuasive sanctions. In this case, given the role played by this bank and the duration of the alleged fraud, 50 million seems to be a very small amount. I really hope that all the taxpayers who have cheated will be able to be found by the administration and that the money that has been cheated will be able to return to the coffers of the state and serve the community. Everyone must, in fact, contribute fairly and proportionately according to their abilities.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u24	Minister, last week we discussed in this committee the draft law on the tax and social greening of mobility. Of course, there are still a lot of questions left after that first reading. With this bill, the government wants to encourage the installation of charging stations by tax. The draft law itself speaks of some 700,000 commercial vehicles, but in 2026, of course, electric private cars will also be driving on the road. The experts now estimate that for one million electric cars more than one million charging stations will be required, but a public charging point is also needed for every ten electric cars. That means, like, 100,000 public loading posts. One in two Belgians, Flemings or Walen, does not have the space to place its own loading post and will therefore have to charge his car in the office or in a public place. The Ghent company Optimile estimates that some 100,000 new publicly accessible loading posts will be needed to make electrification work effectively. Can you agree with that assessment? How many additional loading posts do you consider necessary to achieve electrification of the company car park by 2026? How many additional charging posts do you want to achieve annually with the specific tax advantage? How many, in total, by 2026? Is the full electrification of the company car fleet therefore feasible and realistic? May I be free to add another question to that? In the meantime, do you have your calculations in order? When will you share them with Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u25	The introduction of an increased deduction for companies and a tax reduction for individuals is intended to boost the installation of semi-public charging stations and home loading posts. In order to qualify for grants from the European Recovery Fund, the duration of this measure is limited to the end of August 2024. For an answer to the question of how many charging stations will be needed by 2026 to complete electrification of the company car fleet, and whether Optimile's assessment is correct, please refer to my colleague responsible for Energy. Your last question has arrived. We will undoubtedly discuss it next week at the second reading of the draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u26	Thank you, Minister. We're actually reasoning in circles all the time. We ask questions about your bill that you submit. You're giving the tax advantage. Surely we can ask what your targets are for this tax advantage and what objectives do you intend to achieve with it? You say you are referring to your colleague in Energy, but you have the final responsibility for the tax advantage. It therefore seems logical to me that we should ask you for the targets and targets for the loading posts. It is logical that we ask you not only how many loading posts will be needed, but also how many loading posts you consider fiscally desirable with this bill. I actually come to the same conclusion as last week, and that is why we asked for the second reading: our questions are again not answered. These are very clear, concrete questions that deserve an answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u27	You asked how many additional loading posts the Minister wants to realize each year. I said that we are introducing this measure in order to boost it, and I think an answer has been given to that. That is to give a boost, because we know that a budget has been allocated today to finance that boost. Secondly, you ask whether it is feasible and realistic, and I refer to my colleague responsible for energy. I think that's a logical answer to the questions you're asking.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u28	Minister, with all due respect, I would like to ask you the number of loading posts, to which you will answer that you will give a boost. Of course, that's not a number you mention. How many do you want to realize every year? If we are to achieve 100 000, we need a speedy pace. If it's about five years from now, I'd say it's 20,000 loading posts a year. Are you going to realize that 20,000 a year if that figure of 100,000 is correct? But you don't want to confirm that either. So we're constantly reasoning in circles. You are clearly refusing to answer very specific questions and to give figures to Parliament on a rather important draft law which we agree on.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u29	Mr Vermeersch, perhaps you should ask Tinne Van der Straeten a question?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u30	I asked you last week, I tabled oral questions, and I have tabled a dozen written questions in the meantime. In the meantime, we have also sent a letter to the President of the Chamber to obtain those figures. We are going to do everything in our parliamentary capacity to get the figures effectively on this bill, because until today we have not received a single figure, except for the figure of 700,000 commercial cars which are likely to have to be electrified in 2026. ...:...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u31	Mr. Minister, in De Groene Amsterdammer, Dirk Schoenmaker, professor at Erasmus University, recently made an extensive analysis of the state of the Dutch real estate market. Of course, there are important differences between the Dutch and Belgian real estate markets, but his conclusion transcends the Dutch context. That conclusion is that the problem of rising real estate prices is the large amount of money on the real estate market and not a lack of supply of housing. The addition of housing will not solve the problem in the Netherlands. Rather than building houses, Professor Schoenmaker said that all monetary support measures should be stopped. The policy should aim to enable people to live where they want to live and not to make real estate attractive as an investment product. His warning is clear. If the Dutch government does not self-check the Dutch real estate market, the situation will lead to an uncontrolled fall in prices. Before this tragedy takes place, more and more people will be denied access to the real estate market. Professor Schoenmaker's analysis and warning are clear, which is why I have the following questions for you. What do you think of Professor Schoenmaker's analysis? To what extent do you agree that housing is considered too strong as an investment product and that we should step away from it? Do you believe, like the National Bank, that it is good for financial stability if we abolish measures such as the federal housing bonus and thus limit the influx of money into the real estate market? How do you estimate the risks of our heated housing market? Do you plan to cool it down in the medium term and in what way? How many properties are there in Belgium today? What is the evolution of the number of homes per inhabitant over the past 50 years? Does De Nederlandsche Bank's conclusion that house prices are only limited in relation to housing shortages also apply to Belgium? Finally, how many properties are sold in Belgium above the asking price? What is the evolution of this share over the past five years?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u32	Mr Vanbesien, having a home is indeed an important pillar in strengthening the capital of many households. Houses will therefore never be exclusively financial investments. That does not alter the fact that they are an important part of their assets for many Belgians. The real estate market is therefore closely monitored. In 2020, real estate prices in Belgium increased by 5.8 % compared to the previous year and initial estimates for early 2021 indicate a continuation of this trend. The housing offer has recently increased and is not a determining factor to explain the recent increase in real estate prices. Housing stock and supply have increased faster than households since 1992: 30% increase in housing stock compared to 23% of households. That has not always been the case. In particular, during the first decade of 2010, the ratio between homes and households decreased continuously. As regards your question on financial stability, I would refer you to the opinion of the National Bank of 24 August as requested by the Committee on Finance and Budget in the context of the examination of the 1838 bill. That opinion, which will be submitted to the Registrar of the Chamber, states, inter alia, that the abolition of the tax advantage in question and the reduction in the capital repayments for the non-resident house will make the financing through a credit for the purchase of rental houses less attractive. In view of financial stability and the maintenance of sound real estate and credit markets, some macro-prudential measures have already been taken in the past. The supervisory expectations of the National Bank, which have been in force since 1 January 2020, have proved to be an effective measure in reducing the high rates of new mortgage loans and thus also in reducing the risks to financial stability. For the purposes of that financial stability, in addition to this measure, a capital requirement applies to banks to ensure that, even in the event of a shock on the real estate market, they can absorb potential credit losses and continue to support the real economy. Finally, the General Administration of Patrimonium works on the basis of the prices realised, as stated in the notarial acts. We therefore have no information about the number of properties sold above the asking price.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u33	Minister, the prices I referred to will be distributed to the measure, but not today. In any case, thank you for your answers. The National Bank has been warning us about overheating the real estate market for years. It is therefore a good thing that we are considering a number of logical measures, such as the abolition of the housing bonus. This is included in the 1838 bill that I know pretty well. However, we will also have to consider whether, in the medium term, we can come up with other additional measures to ensure that the market is kept under control. In this way we can avoid unpleasant surprises in the future. We will be able to think about this together later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u34	Madam President, the previous issue is worth a hearing or a more in-depth discussion in the Finance and Budget Committee. We can discuss this in the next order of business. After all, the housing market will remain a theme throughout the legislative period. This question concerns the AAPD, the General Administration of the Patrimonium Documentation, better known as the Land Registry. The land register has a newsletter on which you can register on the internet. Information is then sent, which is available in Dutch, French, German or English. I am reminded that something special is going on. When one asks for information in German or English, it is not always there. If there is no answer, the answer is automatically given in French. If you do not make a language choice, the answer is also automatically in French. The register apparently uses French as a preferred language, but it should be based on the equivalence of the languages in that country. What is your position?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u35	Madam President, Mr Loones, you are referring to the announcement of a newsletter from the central department of my administration, giving the reader a chance to subscribe. This newsletter will be available in Dutch, French and German in accordance with the coordinated laws on the use of languages in administrative matters (Article 40, second paragraph). Due to a technical limitation in the purchased software, the default choice cannot be disabled. Since the reader has the choice to indicate the country language of her or his preference, language legislation is respected. The reader therefore receives the newsletter in the chosen language of the country.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u36	Madam President, Minister, I understand that it is a computer problem and that a default choice must be made. Then I assume that language may as well be Dutch, yet the language spoken by the majority of people in this country. I trust that the other Members of this House will be able to agree with this and that you will take action in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u37	I refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u38	An adjustment or abolition of the tax reduction may be discussed during the forthcoming budgetary negotiations. I don't want to anticipate that. However, I would like to stress that any legislative amendment may only apply to new loans. The elimination of benefits from current agreements cannot be justified in the light of the principle of public confidence vis-à-vis citizens and the principles of good governance. If the measure comes into effect, it will therefore only apply to new contracts.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u39	I thank the Minister for his clear answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u40	The CO2 emission is, it is true, lower for CNG cars than for diesel and petrol cars, but still exists, even if the so-called green CNG is used. Maintaining tax deductibility for CNG cars in the future would therefore lead to an unjustifiable situation, where a type of car with CO2 emissions would continue to be tax deductible, while other types would not. This would also run counter to the simplicity of the current project and the choice to fully engage in the irreversible evolution towards carbon-free cars. I am therefore not in favour of the inclusion in the draft reform of the tax system of company cars of an exception relating to CNG cars or the maintenance of tax deductibility for CNG cars in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u41	Thank you, Minister. That's clear. The question has been suggested to me in particular by an intercommunal who deploys CNG pumps in the territory and who used this type of car for the benefit of his employees. So she's gonna have to review her plans. As I said, minister, this question was before last week. The incident is closed, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u42	Dear colleague, the Legal Security Administration is trying to issue mortgage certificate applications within eight business days for urgent applications and within twenty business days for non-emergency applications. Currently, 21 of the 48 Legal Security offices are facing delays in processing urgent applications. This mainly concerns offices that have an increased influx due to the natural disaster of last summer. Here, the influx of urgent requests to some offices has increased by more than 40% compared to previous years. In view of the increase during the summer holidays, the administration also notes the impact of the leave taken by employees. In addition, in the summer of 2021, this was an additional leave because of the accumulated and often coronavirus-related leave. In addition to the impact of the natural disaster, the Administration also notes a greater influx into all offices within the Administration and due to the increase in real estate activity following the health crisis. In order to support offices that are lagging behind in the processing of mortgage certificates, a number of measures have been taken. First, additional support from staff in regional mobile teams. Secondly, additional aid from offices which are not late in their own work. Third, the decision to enter into first-time contracts for the specific purpose of assisting in the processing of mortgage certificates. The Legal Security Offices apply the principle of "first entry, first exit" when issuing mortgage certificates in order to avoid any discrimination.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u43	Minister, thank you for that answer. I note that you are taking steps to address these delays. Indeed, they are explained, but sometimes they exceed the acceptable limits: we sometimes talk about three months for a real estate certificate! Thank you for paying attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u44	Minister, it is always good to ensure that there are no looming errors in the regressors. One of the looming errors is that the prime minister is not from the largest party, but from a smaller party. There are also other looming errors. This is seen, for example, when Secretary of State is added to ministers. For example, it would be logical for Secretary of State Dermine, who is responsible for investment policy, to have been added to you. You are responsible for investment policy, but it does not appear to have happened. During the last night's negotiations, Mr Dermine was apparently added to his PS colleague, Minister Dermagne, who is not working on this issue. That is a special situation. I wonder if that is workable and sustainable. Last week Mr Dermine proposed a new investment fund. I wonder if that was discussed with you in advance. You are, after all, the Minister responsible for this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u45	Minister, in Wallonia, we are voting for the creation of a solidarity fund of EUR 1.2 billion to restore crucial infrastructure. Half, 600 million euros, would be on the federal government's account. The fund should help rebuild critical infrastructure such as waterways, bridges, energy and telecommunications facilities, hospitals and schools. These are therefore mainly regional powers. Mr Dermine even dared to label the billions of transfers from Flanders to Wallonia as non-generous and not enough during the entire debate on the EUR 600 million. That's unlikely. Minister, you are responsible for federal participation. In the meantime, was the proposal discussed in the government's lap? If so, what was the outcome? Are the government and you willing to participate in this solidarity fund, whether through the Federal Participation and Investment Society, the FPIM? In the spirit of the coalition agreement, this investment fund is proposed as a form of asymmetric policy. However, the Walloon budget has been coloring blood red for years. Here comes the billion-dollar bill of the corona crisis and the billion-dollar bill of the floods. In reality, isn't the fund mainly a way of telling the Walloon billion bill at the federal level, and so on the Flemings if we're honest? Can you agree with the view that the Walloon Region should be made aware of its regional competence and responsibility and that the Walloon Region should be financially and economically responsive?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u46	First of all, let me stress that the federal government will support the affected areas with targeted measures. We have already done this in the past period with a number of decisions, including in the concrete implementation, and we will continue to do so in the future. We will not abandon our countrymen. Solidarity remains a core principle on which the federal state is built, and when I hear the September statements of last Monday, that is also a principle that applies in other states. The concrete proposal you are referring to will, of course, be examined in depth within the government. It is, of course, important that, if we get such a proposal, it should initially be legally and technically feasible. We also need to look at the budgetary impact and the budgetary adaptability of the proposal and analyse it. Moreover, it is also at that time that possible links can be established with other relay routes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u47	Thank you, Minister. This morning we had a detailed exchange of views with Mr Dermine, in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. Moreover, it appears that he is abandoning the concrete proposals of his plan and, above all, aiming at the objective of an aid mechanism to be established. We agree on this, people who are struggling must be helped, especially when we see the disastrous consequences of the floods. What interests me here is the more fundamental debate about the functioning of the government, because it is a debate that will repeat itself. Mr Dermine's reply this morning showed that there are now five working groups in your government. There is, among other things, a working group on investment, and Mr Dermine says he is chairing it, together with the Prime Minister. My first thought was: why, as Minister of Finance, are you not in the chair of that working group? That is, after all, at the heart of your competence. If we want to pursue effective policies, if we want to ensure that investments are productive, and since they are all in line with the European and international commitments that we are taking, meetings where you are sitting at the table and not Mr Dermine, then it is important that that line is closed and that contacts are close. I have the impression that Mr Dermine is driving in front of a PS audience and therefore remains in close contact with Pierre-Yves Dermagne, but it would be a good thing to coordinate investment policies. Perhaps it might be a suggestion to speak through your team and perhaps claim a place on that chair. In any case, I would like you to take the chair of that working group with you. I think that would encourage the most serious of the discussions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u48	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your reply. Of course we, Flemings, want to show solidarity with the victims of the flood in Wallonia. There is no discussion about that. The Flemings have also shown great solidarity. Of course, Mr Dermine's proposal has nothing to do with solidarity. He even believes that the transfers of EUR 7 billion are not really generous. On the other side of the language border there is no need to keep one's own cash in order or to carry out any reform. That has been the problem for years, even before the corona crisis and also before the water crisis, which has been there today. For years, Wallonia has been in the same budgetary crisis as Greece, for example. The IMF has therefore acted and, for example, did not just deposit money. It has also set conditions. That's important. The Flemish interest therefore fully agrees with the Ghent economist Stijn Baert, who states that the attitude of the French speakers prevents any reform and strengthening of the region. The reforms are necessary. Wallonia needs to reform so that it can cope with emergencies itself, without having to ask for money from others. Mr Dermine clearly thinks otherwise. The PS also feels differently about this. Although at least seven billion euros flow from Flanders to Wallonia every year, it is apparently not enough for the PS. We regret that. Not only do we believe that the political responsibility should be determined for the flood. What just went wrong? Conditions must also be laid down before only one federal cent flows into Wallonia.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u49	There are currently no plans to reduce the VAT rate on glasses and lenses to 6%. No consultation with the Minister of Health has yet taken place on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u50	Your answer is particularly short, minister. You have decided quite recently and rightly a reduction for medical capillary prostheses. That's a good idea. I would like to draw your attention to the weight of the cost of glasses and lenses for adults and children alike. You know that visual disability is problematic, whether in terms of school learning, daily life or job integration. This represents important issues. The financial burden for families is particularly high. I would also like to say that in Belgium, the cost of glasses and lenses is among the highest in Europe. The first one, which can be achieved by reducing VAT from 21 % to 6 %, represents a possible margin of reduction. Europe makes this very clear through its 2006 directive, which makes direct reference to medical equipment, auxiliary equipment and other devices designed to relieve and treat disabilities. This is obviously the case with eyeglasses and lenses for a visual disability. Let me plead for progress in this area. If your initiative is suitable for cancer patients, it is also particularly vital on the part of the government to be attentive to the reality of all these young people and young people who need to be equipped with their visual impairment. At the time, I had an estimate made of the cost. Maybe we'll have an opportunity to discuss it again. The cost of this decrease is relatively reasonable in relation to its very positive consequences, including on the State. In terms of school and vocational integration, the issue is particularly beneficial. I hope we have an opportunity to talk about it again. I plead for the government to move this forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u51	Mr Minister, as you know, professional footballers currently pay virtually no contributions to the ONSS, i.e. to social security. A system for reducing social contributions had been developed in the 1970s, which set an annual social contribution ceiling of 861 euros for players earning 330 thousand euros per year in the first division. For example, for the 2020-2021 season, Het Nieuwsblad calculated last April that the first 18 Pro League teams (first division) received a total tax gift of over EUR 199 million in the last season. This amount is based on significant tax reductions (94 million) and social security (105 million). In practical terms, in order to pay a net football player of EUR 100 000, for example, a football club must only provide a budget of EUR 120 000, whereas in other sectors this budget would rather be around EUR 250 000 if all social security contributions were taken into account. These sums are obviously very large and constitute discrimination in relation to other occupational sectors and other workers who do not benefit from such benefits. Since then, another system has been added. This is tax support to enable clubs to retain 80% of the professional discount for Belgian taxation. We wish to continue to support clubs and sports infrastructure and, in particular, the smallest of them. On the other hand, we believe that the system of tax advantages in relation to the salaries of professional athletes in general must be clearly reviewed, as it is, in its present form, profoundly unfair. In society, this debate is very lively – rightly when comparing different sectors. What are the avenues currently being discussed within government to reform this unfair system, and thus reduce these tax benefits?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u52	I have already said that I am currently preparing a reform. As soon as the project is ready, we will present it to the government. I hope to do so as soon as possible. You understand that it is currently premature to explain it in detail. This reform must be prepared jointly with the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u53	Minister, thank you for this short answer. We will not discuss the details today and I understand that of course. Given the importance of the subject, it seemed to us normal and healthy to question you. We'll get back to it. I wish you great courage and you have the support of our group on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u54	Madam President, I refer to the question tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u55	The covid crisis has greatly increased the vulnerability of poor high-debt countries. If a debt crisis in the poorest countries would also infect the economically-economically important growth countries, the impact on Belgium, including through international trade and geographically distributed production chains, would be many times greater. On 23 August, an overall allocation of special drawing rights was made by the IMF to help, among other things, low-income countries. These STRs are managed in Belgium by the National Bank and are part of the international reserves. Belgium, like other industrialised economies, has committed itself to exploring how to channel some of the allocated STRs further to poor and vulnerable countries. The debate took place within the IMF and Belgium participated actively and constructively in the development of this framework. This is also the subject of cooperation at European level. For example, on 10 September, I discussed the use of STRs with my European colleagues and the governors of the central banks at the informal ECOFIN meeting in Slovenia. There are currently three possible avenues for channeling at the IMF. To be feasible, these slopes must always respect the reserve status of the STRs and avoid monetary financing. That is why I believe that the channeling of the STRs to the Poverty Reduction and Growth Trust, an existing trust that supports the poorest countries, is the best track. After all, this trust has already proved its effectiveness and can also be used quickly and quickly in the short term. It is structured in such a way that the reserve status of the contributed STRs is maintained. Belgium is therefore prepared to make an additional contribution to the Poverty Reduction and Growth Trust. The IMF is also thinking of creating a new trust, the Resilience and Sustainability Trust, to which the STRs could be channeled. This new trust would help poor and vulnerable countries to address key long-term challenges, including climate issues and healthcare. If this new trust becomes effective and its design meets the requirements to safeguard reserve status and avoid monetary financing, then Belgium is also willing to take its international responsibility and consider contributing to this trust. A third track, to channel STRs to multilateral development banks, first and foremost the World Bank Group, is being examined, but is much more difficult, because it is a very great challenge in this risk to safeguard reserve status and avoid monetary financing. Solutions are being sought, but it is not certain whether they will be found. In relative terms, it seems that the channeling via the Poverty Reduction and Growth Trust, and possibly the other track, option 2, through a possible new Resilience and Sustainability Trust, are the most feasible options. We are looking at them further.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u56	Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensive answer. I am also convinced that in all circumstances we will benefit from taking other countries into account and that there is sufficient aid, including financial aid, to ensure that they are not pushed into a debt crisis. That is not just out of charity, but also because such a crisis will have serious consequences for us and our society. So let us not lose sight of these countries. I'm glad you're in favour of that, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u57	Minister, the size and impact of the chemicals that 3M has continued to discharge into our country for a long time are still being studied. In the meantime, there is no doubt that both our governments and 3M are responsible for the impact on public health. While further examining who bears the individual responsibility, we need to think federally about how we can change our regulations and mentality so that such abuses are a thing of the past. The policy of granting subsidies and tax incentives to companies should be evaluated. As was also possible during the corona crisis, subsidies and tax benefits should be more closely linked to conditions that serve the general interest, both socially and ecologically. The fact that 3M has established itself on Belgian territory may have resulted in jobs, but it is highly unlikely that this will ever compensate for the costs the PFAS will incur. Minister, the FPS Finance is responsible for granting the investment deduction. Is this tax favor granted to 3M? Have these measures been used over the last 20 years and for what amounts? On the basis of non-compliance with what criteria can these benefits be deprived? The FPS Finance is also responsible for granting the tax credit for investment in research and development, if the investment deduction for patents is not used. Is this tax credit granted to 3M? If so, what amounts have 3M been granted tax relief over the past 20 years? When could this benefit be taken away from us? Did you or your predecessors grant or support 3M over the past 20 years? For what amounts? What conditions were attached to this aid? Do you intend to evaluate the aid measures 3M enjoys? Do you believe, in the light of the PFAS case, that the policy on conditionality of aid should be reviewed?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u58	Mr Vanbesien, your question concerns a specific taxable person. My administration cannot therefore give you an answer because it is bound by professional secrecy. With regard to the support measures for research and development mentioned by you, several evaluations are under way to create a more legal and equitable framework that will benefit both the institutions and businesses concerned and the public authorities. The PFAS case is not directly related to the mentioned aid measures for research and development. These are based on general, objective conditions which have a general scope with the aim of encouraging Belgian companies to conduct scientific research and technical innovation. Other aid measures also contain specific conditions for achieving the objective pursued. A balance must always be made between the objective of the aid and how the conditions can contribute to it. Conditionality of aid measures currently applies only to schemes where an undertaking can only assess the extent to which it fulfils the conditions imposed in a later taxable period. This is the case, for example, with the temporary exemption for innovation income and the temporarily exempted reserve to strengthen solvency and equity as a result of the covid pandemic. However, many of the aid measures contain the conditions which can be verified by the taxable company during the tax period. Effective compliance with these conditions may later form part of administrative control and therefore aid unduly received can be recovered. For this reason, the introduction of a temporary exemption is not necessary to ensure that the objectives of the aid measures mentioned by you are met and would not be conducive to legal certainty. Moreover, this would increase the control tasks of the administration. A review of the conditionality of these aid measures is therefore not currently under consideration.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u59	I personally believe, Minister, that the conditions attached to this kind of aid should be assessed. I believe that more binding conditions can be attached to support measures for companies. Too often afterwards, it appears that companies that eagerly use public funds do not comply with the rules of decency. This is not just the case with 3M, because in the recent past we have known other companies that did not comply with the rules of decency. At such a time it should be possible to recover post factum subsidies. I therefore believe that an evaluation of the conditions is necessary. Besides, it is not just those crooked companies that are involved, this is also to protect all the other companies that work properly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u60	The European Tax Observatory published an interesting study on 6 September, while perhaps the introduction of a minimum tax on multinationals is in sight. It confirms that many banks take advantage of tax havens to reduce their taxes, which is not a scoop. The research body integrated into the Paris School of Economics analysed how 36 European banking institutions — including the Belgian KBC — affected their results in 17 countries defined as tax havens for the banking sector. It turns out that these companies earn 20 billion euros each year, or 14% of their total profits, in these territories, a percentage that has remained stable since 2014. The Observatory has also calculated that with a minimum tax rate of 15%, as currently planned, these institutions are expected to pay between €3 and €5 billion more per year and even between €10 and €13 billion at a rate of 25%. This illustrates once again, not only the need to succeed in this matter, but above all to increase our ambition on this subject. Have you read this study? What analysis do you make of this, particularly with regard to the case of KBC? Are its conclusions such as to encourage the European Union to reconsider its ambitions — supposedly to revise them upwards? Will you plead that in fact? Finally, at the OECD level, how are the technical work to be completed in October progressing?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u61	Madam Chair, I have a similar question, but I will wait for my turn, I do not understand why they were not joined.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u62	I had seen it, but if you don't mind, thank you for waiting for your turn so that everyone will be filled in his or her legitimate rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u63	The study by the European Tax Observatory is very interesting. It also demonstrates once again the added value of the international exchange of information, and in particular the country-by-country reports. The bank you mention is present in some jurisdictions that do not raise taxes or have a low tax rate. This presence logically explains some of the benefits. Compared to other banks, the bank is located in the platoon. At the same time, its profit share decreased over the period studied from 15.1% in 2014-2016 to 12.7% in 2016-2018. The Government supports international developments aimed at increasing transparency. This includes OECD technical work on minimum taxation of multinationals. They are expected to last until the end of this year. In October, the OECD and G20 inclusive framework will release a revised version of its statement of July 1. This revised version will include more details on a series of key points of the project.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u64	Madam Chair, Minister, thank you for your rather short answer. Unfortunately, you have not answered my question about the ambition that should be ours, which is supported by the figures I have quoted. We will soon have the opportunity to come back to the subject, since the following question is more or less about the same subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u65	Madam President, Minister, we were talking about this right now. At the beginning of July, an agreement was reached between 132 countries within the OECD on the minimum taxation of multinationals. This is a step forward, but one that still requires some clarification. As often when it comes to international taxation, the devil hides himself in the details. Thus, the adopted text includes a provision, known as "carve-out", which significantly reduces the impact of the measures that would be adopted. This provision allows multinationals to reduce profits subject to this tax by 5% of the value of the assets and the wage bill they own in each individual country. A 7.5% decrease would even be envisaged for the first five years. The perverse effect obviously jumps to the eye! If they maintain a sufficient presence of assets and employees in tax havens, these companies would see their submission to this levy very severely limited. The European Tax Observatory has carried out a study on this subject. What are his conclusions? In the European Union, this reduction would reduce revenue by 15 to 30 % compared to a carve-out mechanism, the impact of which will of course vary depending on the carve-out rate and the tax rate. One example of this report is an exemption of 7.5 per cent applied at a minimum rate of 15 per cent. For Belgium, under these conditions, the authors also estimate the decrease in revenue to 7.5% compared to what would be expected if the exemption did not exist. You will agree with me, minister, that this subtlety of the agreement is an issue. So I have a few questions to ask you. Have you been aware of this provision and the conclusions of the European Monitoring Centre on Taxation? Have your services conducted their own assessment of our country? If so, does it confirm the figures put forward by the Observatory? What is Belgium's position on this point in the discussions on the implementation of the joint declaration ratified in July?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u66	I obviously read the study with great interest. FPS Finance's study services are working on a model to best estimate the impact of the second pillar reform. The parameters such as the minimum tax rate and the carve-out can be adjusted in this model. However, it is not yet operational because some important details of the reform are not yet known. Belgium's position is to support the principle of this carve-out, which will make it possible to distinguish between actual economic activities and installations motivated by purely fiscal reasons. By excluding from the taxable basis of the new minimum tax an amount corresponding to a certain percentage of the depreciable value of tangible assets and of the wage bill, greater importance is given to the sufficient substance of enterprises. This measure implements the government agreement to preserve the competitiveness of certain important sectors of the economy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u67	Mr Minister, I am not sorry, but I am necessarily a little disappointed by this reply confirming Belgium's support for this mechanism, which is a mechanism capable of ruining or at least reducing the scale of the July announcement and the measures to be taken as a result. It's a serious problem. The taxation of multinationals is an absolutely major issue. Everyone had pretended to be aware of it. It is a historic fiscal turning point that cannot be missed, especially after this health crisis which is still present and the need to refinance health care, but also other sectors of our society such as education. We need resources. This carve-out provision is a provision that will simply deprive us of revenue. And it's a problem that seems pretty serious to me. Multinationals are again at risk of escaping the fair tax they have to pay as SMEs and workers fall under the weight of tax and bear the burden on themselves. This is a serious concern and I invite you, Minister, to plead for another option.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u68	Based on the press, the nuclear cabinet would have met for the first time this afternoon on the 2022 budget. Many proposals have already been put forward in the press in recent days and weeks. For example, as a budgetary exercise, Mrs De Bleeker proposed a restructuring of EUR 3 billion, with on the one hand a firm effort of 0.2 percent of GDP, i.e. around EUR 1 billion, and on the other hand a variable effort of 0.4% or about EUR 2 billion. Mrs De Sutter then said last weekend in The Seventh Day that the savings should not exceed 1 billion. It did not go beyond the fixed effort of 0.2 % of GDP. You, Minister, made another proposal the week before in the Seventh Day: you referred to EUR 2.5 billion, with the fixed effort of 0.2 percent, i.e. 1 billion, and a variable effort of 0.3 % or about 1.5 billion. Hopefully, this time you have passed on your proposal and want to share it with Parliament. The overall budgetary effort, in line with the government agreement, will be divided into 1/3 expenditure, 1/3 revenue and 1/3 'differents', i.e. three EUR 833 million, together with 2.5 billion. What expenditure do you intend to make an effort of 833 million? On what revenue? What "others"? How will you ensure that the towering tax burden in this country does not increase further? For that, we count on you as the competent minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u69	You will not be surprised that the debate on the effort to be made and the corresponding measures will initially take place within the government. Over the past period, our economy has shown resilience and prospects are brighter, or at least brighter than the past period. This is not, of course, a reason for losing sight of the health of our public finances in the medium term. It is therefore still important to stabilise debt and further reduce the deficit, without slowing down economic growth. Therefore, it is important to carry out a credible fiscal exercise, with structural measures and sufficient attention to reforms, as included in the government agreement. , As you point out, an important fiscal aspect is also part of the discussion that we are going to have and of the reforms that need to be carried out in the coming period. I am sure that we will have interesting discussions and debates here in the coming period.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u70	Thank you, Minister. We will make an effort to make good debates about it. On the basis of your answer, I have the impression once again that if I had asked you in this House the question of what budgetary effort you want to achieve, you would never have answered when you did reply in the press. That is, of course, the problem: you and your colleagues put things in the press, but here in Parliament it never becomes concrete. The press gets much more information than we do. You are also going no further than a number of generalities today: we need to ensure that everything remains structurally in order, that public debt remains under control... Everyone knows that by now, at least everyone north of the language border. I have heard of you, and I find that disturbing because of a Minister of Finance.................................................................................................................................................................................................... However, that is what my question was about. We can see that over the past period this government has introduced a lot of direct taxes, such as the securities tax, or the cover-up, but rather the non-indexation of a number of deduction items......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The tax burden has gone only one way over this period of government, namely upwards. I had hoped to get a guarantee from you, but I note that you clearly do not give any guarantees in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u71	This question relates to what was discussed here yesterday, so I regretted that my question was not added to those other questions. It's about the alternative forms of remuneration. A Belgian supermarket chain and a software company are launching a formula whereby companies can encourage their employees to buy healthy products that are tax-friendly. They give a certain discount, which I will not specify here, but it is in my question. The plans of a power supplier and some social secretariats that were also discussed here yesterday to make employers pay for the electricity bill of their employees have already come up against opposition from you as Minister of Finance. You said: 'We are now looking together with the administration to see how we can put a stop to this as quickly as possible.' That is why I have a number of questions. What is the position of the Minister of Finance on the alternative remuneration through the supermarket invoice? Can the Minister reaffirm his position on alternative remuneration through the electricity bill here in Parliament? According to the Minister of Finance's spokesman, the cabinet and the administration are working on a way to counter this type of tax optimisation techniques. How's this going? How will that actually work? Is there going to be a ban? And to what extent will we, as a Parliament, be involved in this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u72	Thank you very much, Mr Vermeersch. As far as I am aware, this concerns the specific case of a reduction granted by a third party to the employees of a specific undertaking and which does not constitute the equivalent of a benefit provided to the employer. The employer therefore offers this possibility collectively to the staff for a social purpose. The staff member shall decide whether he wishes to make use of this discount. The amount of the discount that the employee can obtain effectively is rather limited and therefore also depends on his spending pattern. I also note that this is not a new system, but that similar systems have been in place for a long time with different employers, both in the private and in the public sector. That formula is not comparable to the formula we talked about yesterday, about tax optimisation via the electricity bill. With regard to this formula, I stand by the position I gave yesterday. Tax optimisation via the electricity bill goes directly against the intention of our comprehensive fiscal reform, also aiming at the gradual shift of alternative forms of remuneration towards remuneration in euros. We are currently analysing the various options to discourage such types of tax optimisation techniques, which I also said yesterday. With regard to the tax optimisation you mentioned via the electricity invoice, this may be possible in the short term by adjusting the relevant article in the Royal Decree implementing the Income Tax Code. If legislative changes are needed, then it seems logical to me that we should follow all the constitutional procedures. Parliament must also be involved in this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u73	Minister, I believe that this is a clear answer. We are pleased to note that you make a clear distinction between a kind of alternative remuneration via the supermarket invoice and an alternative remuneration via the electricity bill. More generally, however, I must stress that the extra-legal benefits are extremely important for SMEs and their employees. With these advantages, SMEs can attract and retain these employees. They are not only beneficial to employees, but they are also very interesting to companies. In this way they can profile themselves as an attractive employer. As I said earlier, Belgium has a huge tax burden. As long as this fundamental problem is not addressed, employers and employees will continue to seek a way out through alternative rewards. At that time, we will return to your so-called broad fiscal reform. We are in favour of retaining these alternative rewards as long as no solution has been found to this enormous tax burden. After all, these alternative remunerations optimise the remuneration and strengthen purchasing power. Moreover, for SMEs, it is an interesting alternative to a wage increase. It's also a way to motivate the staff and win their loyalty. Very important in these times of scarcity in the labour market is also the fact that it is a way to preserve the greatest talents.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u74	Minister, during the lockdown, tax rules in the bilateral agreements and European social security rules were neutralized because frontier workers would otherwise be affected if they worked more than a certain percentage of telework in their own country. For social security, neutralization ends at the end of December. I assumed that the neutralization of the tax rules would end at the end of September. However, teleworking is also increasingly used in the border region. This, of course, has consequences for border workers. On the one hand, they can be excluded from teleworking because they can only do so once every two weeks under the normal rules. On the other hand, this can also have major consequences in terms of division of wages and taxes in different countries. This can have major financial consequences, especially when mortgage loans are introduced and, of course, social security. Minister, will fiscal neutrality be extended until the end of December, as is the case with social security rules? I would also like to call on you to examine bilaterally whether the rules can be adapted to the new way of working, whereby teleworking becomes the norm several days a week. Can we therefore consider better harmonisation of the rules? This could simplify the existing complexity.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u75	Mrs Vanrobaeys, the application of the COOVID-19 agreements on teleworking with Luxembourg, the Netherlands, France and Germany was indeed extended until 31 December 2021. With Luxembourg on 31 August we concluded an avenant which amends the so-called 24-day rule contained in the Belgian-Luxembourg double taxation treaty. This avenant will allow workers to work for up to 34 days outside the usual state of work from 2022 onwards and will remain taxable there. This avenant will, moreover, be submitted to Parliament for approval. For the other neighbouring countries, the usual rules, which are in line with the OECD Model Convention, will continue to apply. In these cases, workers are in principle taxable in the country where they work. In the case of homework, income is therefore taxable in the state of residence of the worker. You refer in your introduction to a 10% rule, but I do not know it in that context. A frontier worker who works from home will pay tax in two different states: in the usual state of work for the days he works there, and in the state of residence for the days of homework. There is no double taxation, since income is taxed for a given day either in one state or in the other. The administration does not have simulations to map the impact of homework, but it does examine possible new homework arrangements carried out by border workers in the post-COVID-19 era. These can only be introduced after an preferably uniform adaptation of the double taxation treaties, which should be agreed with neighbouring countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u76	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I note in particular your willingness to adapt the double taxation treaties with neighbouring countries to a new work organisation with more telework. I am pleased that this will be neutralized until the end of December and will therefore follow the same path as with social security. It could certainly be a first step towards extending the agreement with Luxembourg to the other neighbouring countries. I am getting a lot of signals from employees that the split pay in telework has fiscal consequences, not only for employees but also for employers. For example, employers in West Flanders, for example, who are more often employed by French border workers, face more red tape if they want their employees to telework, while such workers just meet the demand for more labour mobility. From our side, we can contribute to this by adapting the rules to the new times.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u77	Madam President, Minister, this is an umpteenth tax scandal. Revealed in the press in September 2018, the Dubai Papers refer to a flight of 200,000 documents relating to a laundering system operated from the United Arab Emirates and organized through the Helin group, led by Belgian prince Henri de Croÿ. Three years later, in September 2021, a first conviction fell into this case. Two company managers were sentenced to nine months' suspended imprisonment and a fine of 80,000 euros for money laundering of tax fraud. These convictions took place in France and not in Belgium. However, our country is primarily concerned with this matter. France is making clear progress on this issue, but what about Belgium? Minister, how many tax controls have been introduced for Dubai Papers-related cases? Can you disaggregate this number by ISI Regional Directorate? How many cases have been closed to date, with what amounts of basic taxable supplement and taxes enrolled? Have any files been sent to the Flemish tax administration for fraud of inheritance rights? If so, how many? In criminal matters, the Dubai Papers case is dealt with by the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office, and the proceedings on the fixations are due to take place in early December 2021. Does your administration intend to file a civil action? The former Minister of Justice, Koen Geens, indicated in his reply to my question of April 2020 that 61 Belgian residents, clients of the Helin and/or Jawer groups, had been identified, 15 of whom benefited from tax regularisation. Have these 15 tax regularization files been forwarded to the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office? When? With regard to these 15 regularization requests, can you specify the amount of income and the amount of capital, distinguishing between prescribed and non-prescribed capital?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u78	Mr Van Hees, the ISI launched 44 tax checks, 24 in Brussels and 20 in Namur. Five cases in Namur have already been completed: €35.1 million in taxes are claimed. The above-mentioned tax controls have not yet resulted in a transfer. My administration has not yet been informed of the closure of the judicial file. It is therefore premature to decide on the possibility of a civil suit. Public servants and staff active at the point of contact are bound by professional secrecy provided for in section 458 of the Criminal Code. I cannot therefore give any information on any regularisations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u79	Minister, I take note of your answers. That's 44 tax checks! This may seem little compared to 200,000 documents, which does not mean 200,000 customers! I hear that some of these files, some of these controls are progressing, others may be less. You haven't received any information from the justice system. That seems surprising to me. Indeed, the federal prosecutor indicated that things would start in December. With regard to tax regularizations, one can see the problem posed by these amnesties: the cases cannot be referred to the courts, whereas in the case we are concerned it would be necessary. These amnesties are clearly a problem. They're coming to an end. We hope it will be.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u80	Madam President, Minister, in a judgment delivered on 16 September 2021, the Court of Justice of the European Union confirmed that the Excess profit rules constituted a state aid scheme, as the European Commission has been supporting since the beginning. It is a camouflet for the Belgian government involved in this dispute to defend a totally illegitimate advantage offered to the multinationals concerned. Indeed, this system allows the head of a Belgian subsidiary of a multinational company to detax, under the pretext of applying transfer pricing rules, hundreds of millions of euros not taxed within a foreign subsidiary. In other words, we make a tax transfer that only works in one direction. There is no taxation in Belgium, nor is there any taxation pending abroad. This system is therefore clearly a huge gift to multinationals with, in addition, a state aid scheme. While ruling on the fact that it is a state aid scheme, the Court refers the case back to the Court of First Instance to decide the fund of the dispute. So it's not over. And if Belgium were condemned by the Tribunal, it could still appeal, re-launching this endless carousel. Mr Minister, will the Belgian government continue this judicial battle against the European Commission? Is the continuation of this procedure debated within the government or are you alone taking this decision? Why is it that the Belgian state has been strenuous to defend a shameful tax advantage offered to a few dozen multinationals, while the workers of our country are heavily taxed? Given our country's difficult fiscal situation, why is the government fighting to lose an amount close to EUR 1 billion? It's like playing who loses wins. Indeed, if the Belgian government were to win, it would lose a billion and vice versa. Since you were Minister of Finance, have you had any contact with representatives of multinationals involved in this dispute?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u81	Madam President, Minister, as you know, the Belgian system of Excess profit rules has been definitively recognised as a state aid scheme by the Court of Justice of the Union. This therefore closes a winding-up case which has lasted since 2016, when the European Commission had called the profit-profit rules state aid and ordered the recovery of the amounts at issue thus granted for several hundred million euros. This was followed by a legal battle with the Commission's appeal to the Court of Justice, which therefore decided. Minister, I have two questions. I would like to know what this judgment will bring and what its implications for our State? As you know, it is not a secret, for my group, that the State's various remedies against the Commission's decision in 2016 were absolutely not useful: not only could companies themselves bring actions, but the Commission's arguments were quite clear in favour of State aid. Let's move on! The government of the time nevertheless decided to instigate all the actions we know. Could you then communicate to us all the costs of justice and lawyers incurred by these decisions of the previous government?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u82	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on 16 September 2021 the Court of Justice of the European Union delivered a judgment of annulment. The Court annulled the judgment delivered on 14 February 2019 by the Court of First Instance, which wrongly considered, according to the Court, that the excess profit rules did not constitute an unlawful state aid scheme on the basis of the first two pleas relied on by the Belgian State. The Court therefore referred the case to the Tribunal for further examination. The examination in question concerns pleas 3 to 5 relied on by the Belgian State and certain branches of the second plea. Those pleas had not yet been raised by the Court of First Instance when the action brought by the Belgian State had been declared admissible and based solely on the first plea in law and the first two parts of the second plea in law. Accordingly, the case is referred to the Court of First Instance for examination on the merits of the other pleas relied on in support of the Belgian State's appeal against the Commission's final decision of 11 January 2016. Therefore, I would like to point out to you that at this stage of the proceedings, no res judicata of a court decision has been rendered stating for right that excess profit rules constitute unlawful State aid and contrary to the internal market. As regards legal fees and lawyers, the choice of lawyers was the subject of a public procurement procedure launched at the time of the previous government following a restricted tendering procedure without publicity. The costs of counsel for counsel and assistance, not for representation of the Belgian State, can be broken down as follows: as regards the appeal procedure brought by the Belgian State before the Court of First Instance to set aside the Commission's decision of 11 January 2016, the costs of lawyers amount to approximately EUR 370 000 HVAT. As regards the second appeal procedure brought before the Court by the Commission against the judgment of the Court of First Instance of 14 February 2019, the costs of lawyers amount to approximately EUR 130 000 HVAT. Before the European courts, the Belgian State is represented by its Government in the person of its Minister for Foreign Affairs at the intervention of foreign affairs agents accredited to the European courts. As I have just explained, the judgment in annulment of the Court of 16 September 2021 has the legal effect of referring the case to the Court of First Instance, which resumes the proceedings at the stage at which it was before the judgment of 14 February 2019. These are the remedies that have not yet been examined by the Tribunal. Accordingly, the Court of First Instance can perfectly decide that a reopening of the proceedings is not necessary and decide again on the pleas raised by the applicants which it had not yet examined before annulling the decision of the European Commission of 11 January 2016. The Court of First Instance may also decide to reopen the proceedings and invite the parties to make their comments on the judgment of the Court of 16 September 2021, fix a new hearing of pleadings and ask the parties written questions before the hearing or orally during the hearing before closing the proceedings again and deciding the matter. At this stage, we do not yet know what the Court of First Instance will decide in furtherance of the proceedings. In any event, no new plea in law may be invoked before the Court of First Instance following the judgment of 16 September 2021. In conclusion, I would point out that it is my administration and not my office that is in charge of this matter. A task forceExcess profit rules (EPR) has been set up since 2015 and brings together officials from the various general administrations concerned. This task force manages the EPR procedure independently. The contacts between the officials of the EPR Task Force and the 39 companies concerned are those usually maintained by the parties called upon to defend their interests in the same contentious case subject to trial.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u83	Minister, thank you for your answers. You confirm what I said, that the procedure is not over. That was my question. Do you find that the Belgian authorities must continue this procedure, which has already cost half a million euros in legal fees, but which, above all, if Belgium were to win, would cost public finances nearly one billion euros? Within this government, forces – and you are – say that we will have to make efforts, that we will have to return to austerity because public finances are in a catastrophic state. And here you fight to lose a billion euros! It's quite incomprehensible!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u84	Minister, thank you. Indeed, the procedure has not been completed. We can always stick around, but why don't we stick around? You may win, but it's still a fair tax that will escape the state's coffers. Frankly, I do not understand why multinationals should not pay taxes when all citizens in Belgium pay taxes. In addition, I do not know if you realize the amounts you have just announced: 605,000 euros of attorney's fees! Even if we were to recover the evaded taxes, we've already lost 605,000 euros for nothing. This is outrageous! It is now time to put an end to all these costly procedures.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u85	Mr Minister, according to L-Echo, I quote, "the Brussels Labour Auditorate has opened several cases against the delivery service Uber Eats, on the status of its couriers. Their future will depend on the Deliveroo trial scheduled for the end of October". What is at stake here is the status of delivery agents, which is actually a disguised employee contract. CCS lawyer Sophie Remuchamps explains in the same newspaper that "when you go to the shoemaker, you don't tell him how to fix shoes. At Deliveroo, everything is organized, from A to Z. The couriers do not choose the races, they are detailed, fragmented, controlled, geolocalized performances". It's paid work because it's the real or the fake boss who says exactly how to prestrate. At the tax level, this situation also raises questions. The "Law of Croo" of 1 July 2016 taxes very advantageously the collaborative economy. In 2018 and 2019, however, the FPS Finances advised the Deliveroo and Uber Eats platforms that they could not use this scheme because the platform must be a simple intermediary and there must be an agreement between the provider and the customer, which does not exist since the delivery provider does not know the customer he delivers. They are deliverers whose underpaid benefits do not give them any social security rights. It is our responsibility that these two companies, Deliveroo and Uber Eats, have made intense lobbying. Strangely, as of September 2019, the FPS Finances changed its shoulder rifle. While he prohibited them from doing so, he suddenly allowed them to use this regime. It also generates a great deal of fraud, as a result of the separate taxation of these revenues. One of these frauds is the "lease of accounts". The account is taken by an intermediary who rents it or sells it to someone who performs the services. Minister, by what magic did Deliveroo and Uber, after the ban on using the collaborative economy regime, suddenly get permission to do so from the FPS Finances and retroactively regularize all 2018 and 2019 amounts? Secondly, how do you justify the discordance between this new complacency on the part of the FPS Finances and the action of the labour auditorate, which, on the other hand, attacks these platforms and considers their practices illegal. Thirdly, do you not find it problematic that a tax system intended to allow small services between citizens is ultimately used by more than 80% by two multinationals? These are figures from the FPS Finances. Fourthly, what actions have you taken against the massive fraud generated by the tax system of the collaborative economy?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u86	Mr Van Hees, your question relates to the 2018-2019 period when certain platforms, although approved as collaborative economy platforms, did not meet the other conditions that would have allowed their couriers to benefit from the tax regime of the collaborative economy. My administration has granted administrative tolerance because it believes that the couriers concerned do not have to suffer from this situation. The couriers, including many students, had indeed engaged in this activity in order to be able to benefit from this favourable regime. This administrative tolerance is granted under certain conditions to the revenues received by couriers in 20018 and 2019. Platforms were asked to be in order with tax legislation for the future. The issue of the status of couriers goes beyond the tax framework of the collaborative economy regime. My administration is therefore following closely the developments of the work of the Labour Auditorate on the issue of the status of couriers. The FPS Finances is not aware of a massive fraud generated by the collaborative economy's tax system and currently controls the limits of revenue earned by couriers. In this context of tax controls, it will sanction any behaviour considered fraudulent, such as the leasing of accounts, as it does in other sectors of activity.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u87	Minister, you seem to say that there has been a fundamental difference between the 2018-2019 period and the current situation. I understand that there has been an administrative tolerance towards couriers who must not, of course, suffer from the malfeasance of those who employ them. But, on the other hand, it seems to be said between the lines that the two firms in question, Deliveroo and Uber Eats, have complied with the conditions since then. It is not said as such, but your answer is not very clear. What I find positive in your answer, however, is that you are following closely what is happening at the level of the work auditorate. Indeed, it would be incomprehensible that fiscal and social policies are not the same in this case. Obviously, the auditorate is quite firm on this issue. I hope that the tolerance found in the head of the FPS Finances will come to an end. I am not talking about tolerance towards the couriers who are the crugs of history. No, I'm talking more about the change in the shoulder rifle and the tolerance to Deliveroo and Uber. You say you don't know about fraud. I invite you, however, to ask your administration to look into the matter because the echoes from the field speak of massive fraud.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u88	Madam President, Minister, in the spring, 43 international banks were committed, under the leadership of the United Nations, to achieving carbon neutrality by 2050. Today, a report by the British Share Action Association indicates that at European level, the policy pursued by the institutions does not correspond to this promise. Anyway, not for now. And that's where the bastard hurts. The sector lacks intermediate objectives. Of the 25 largest plants in the Union, only 3 claim to want to double their emissions by 2030, which may be an essential step towards zero carbon by 2050, and 8 have taken clear steps to reduce their financing of the two highly polluting activities of energy production and fossil energy extraction. As far as coal is concerned, half of these companies have disengagement ambitions which are not compatible with the demands of the Paris Agreement. Finally, it would appear that they integrate only customers to whom they lend money directly into their carbon footprint, regardless of the transactions they carry out in the capital market. All these elements therefore corroborate those of a previous study, published earlier this year at the initiative of the grouping of NGOs Banking on climate chaos, which taught us that the 60 largest banks on the planet had, between 2016 and 2020, injected $3,800 billion into fossil industries. Minister, have you read the Share Action report? What analysis do you make of this, especially with regard to companies active in our territory? Have you had contact with the Belgian officials of these companies? Do your services have any other data on Belgian banking practices in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u89	Mr Ben Achour, I have indeed read the report of the NGO Share Action and I welcome such analyses as they contribute to the necessary transition to a more sustainable economy and encourage the various actors to fulfil their commitments in this area. The banking sector has, it is true, a very important role to play in supporting and financing this transition. This role is different depending on the strategy and size of the financial institution, but it is not surprising that sustainability is one of the four strategic pillars of the Febelfin sectoral federation. This is reflected in initiatives such as the introduction of the Towards Sustainability label for financial products or the Charter of Leasing and Circular Economy. With its Sustainable Finance Strategy and Action Plan, the European Commission has also already taken several initiatives to promote the financing of the ecological transition, such as the Regulation on the publication of information under which financial and non-financial enterprises will, in the future, have to report on how they contribute to a sustainable economy. A taxonomy is also being developed to define sustainable activities in Europe in a uniform manner. The international platform on sustainable finance, which has 17 members in the European Union, China and the United Kingdom, aims to harmonise this definition at international level. In addition, a European standard on green bonds, a European ecolabel for financial products and various climatic benchmarks are being developed. With regard to the prudential plan, the National Bank of Belgium is actively working on the development of additional regulations on reporting, risk management and governance. It is also examined whether the capital requirements to be held by banks need to be adjusted to take account of climate and environmental risks. It is very important to note that capital requirements – prudential regulation in general – must remain risk-based at all times. There are no plans to prohibit the financing of certain activities at this stage. However, it should be made clear that support for transition will contribute to mitigating future climate risks. With regard to the specific risks of financial institutions, account must also be taken of the fact that different stakeholders are increasingly expecting a certain transition from the financial sector to sustainability through commitments such as the total absence of emissions by 2050. Failure to meet these expectations can have an impact on the economic model and future benefits of a financial institution. Both the Belgian banking sector and the supervisory authorities, the National Bank and the international authorities are working to identify and manage climate-related risks. Because of the high uncertainty associated with these risks, the different transmission channels and direct and indirect effects, scenario analyses and resistance tests are a preferred way to assess these risks. The first scenario analyses and resistance tests are under way. On 22 September, the European Central Bank (ECB) published the results of the euro area banking sector-wide stress tests, which show that the impact would not be negligible in the event of too late a transition. In 2022, the ECB will carry out additional resistance tests, this time on an individual basis, for the main banks in the euro area.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u90	Minister, thank you for your answer. I understand that action is being taken in addition to the attention given to this problem. Transition is everyone's business, including banking institutions. I therefore call on you, of course, to amplify this initiative and to make it sustainable, so that we can achieve the goal we set ourselves of zero carbon by 2050.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u91	Minister, when we see questions and doubts in the real estate sector, and especially when there seems to be a real estate bubble in the making, we all get a little nervous. This brings back memories of the financial and subsequent financial and economic crisis that we have experienced since 2008. What do we see in China now? There's something worrying going on there with the debacle around Evergrande. There are intermediate agreements to repay interest rates, but everyone can see that the problem is not over yet. That is why I have a number of questions, in the hope that we have learned lessons from the past. What about the interconnectedness between our economy and our financial system, and the system in China? What steps are being taken to reduce this risk and ensure that it does not harm us? I fear that this is a dossier that we will be discussing more often in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u92	Mr Loones, the prudential data for the Belgian banking and insurance sector show a limited exposure, on the asset side of the balance sheet, to the Chinese economy and to the Chinese real estate sector in particular. Belgian insurers have an exposure of less than €300 million, i.e. 0.1 % of the investment portfolio, and €1.2 million respectively. In the Belgian banking sector, exposure is equivalent to 1.1 billion euros, or 0.1 % of total assets, respectively, and less than 1 million euros. The link with the Chinese real estate sector is therefore very limited. The situation is closely monitored, including the impact of second- and third-round effects: these are a possible further cooling down of the real estate market and a slowdown in the Chinese economy. The problems at Evergrande put the spotlight on possible imbalances that have arisen in the Chinese real estate market. The problems at Evergrande and possibly other real estate companies in China will be accompanied by losses for the predominantly Chinese creditors of the company, and may also contribute to a cooling down of the real estate market and the slowdown of the Chinese economy, as I mentioned earlier. Some of these first, second and third round effects will also be felt outside China, but are of a different order given the preponderance of domestic creditors in the company. Evergrande's foreign financing through the issuance of foreign currency bonds is estimated at around EUR 20 billion, a relatively limited fraction of the company's total debt of around 300 billion. Evergrande is indirectly only to a limited extent intertwined with the global financial system. This is a big difference from the 2008 crisis when the widespread spread in the global and financial system of structured products exposed to the US mortgage market and the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers triggered a strong cascade of losses throughout the entire global financial system. Since the previous financial crisis, the financial system has, of course, been strengthened to mitigate cascade effects of this kind. Today, through reforms and stricter capital and liquidity rules, the financial sector is also better equipped to cope with unexpected shocks and losses. The competent national and international institutions will, of course, monitor the situation closely to detect any problems at an early stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u93	I am satisfied with your whole answer and, above all, with the last sentence. You and your services will continue to follow it closely. It's good to hear those reassuring signals, too. We shouldn't cause unnecessary panic. If that intertwinedness is the way it is and if it is limited, let us monitor it carefully and ensure that we keep it under control. You are talking about second- and third-round effects, which are then mainly economically framed. If there is any growth slowdown in China, we will feel the same in short terms. There are also the cascade and possible domino effects when something happens. Our banks do not have a direct connection with financial institutions in China, but perhaps indirectly. I understand that you wish to follow this closely. That seems to be an excellent thing. It does prove that we still have work on the European shelf, particularly with regard to the banking union. Measures have been taken to strengthen our financial institutions, but that project has not yet been fully completed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u94	Minister, with regard to the Flemish Interest, we have good contacts with the figures professions in this country and especially in the Flemish part of the country. There are a lot of concerns from the sector that we want to raise. Traditionally, the accountants, accountants and fiscalists take their hairs out of their head during this period of the year. You know that agents such as accountants or tax experts have until October to submit their customers' tax returns via MyMinfin (Tax-on-web). Those accountants and fiscalists are already pulling the alarm, including in the press. Either it is impossible to log in, or certain parts of the web application are inaccessible, or the agents cannot access their customers' files. That is an annual phenomenon, let us be honest about it. More generally, the irregular availability of Tax-on-web, its erratic operation and the deaf ears in the administration are considered particularly problematic. That is why I have a number of questions. How many hours has MyMinfin (Tax-on-web) been unavailable in the past month? How many hours has the web application been incompletely available or has there been technical problems? What measures will the Minister take to improve availability and accessibility in the short term? Does the Minister intend today to extend the deadline for this request? And what measures will the Minister take to finally resolve and improve these problems in the long term?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u95	Mr President, it is true that accountants and tax advisers have apparently experienced problems with the FPS Finance e-services in recent weeks. I would like to clarify a number of points. Your question also refers to this. On 14 September there was indeed a technical intervention that was totally unpredictable. There were problems between 15 and 15.30 hours, but without complete interruption. This month there are problems with role management and logging in on behalf of a mandater. The problem is that the application of role management, managed by the FOD BOSA, does not pass on any or incomplete information about roles and mandates to the FOD Finance applications. This makes it difficult or impossible for managers, especially from larger offices, to log in to the applications of the federal government. That problem existed since September 2nd and has been solved since September 22nd at 11:41 a.m. In the week from 13 to 19 September we noticed some limited performance problems for Tax-on-web. Due to a database problem at the opening of Tax-on-web tax non-residents, there were problems on 15 September from 10 a.m. to 10.30 a.m. and from 11.30 a.m. to 12 noon. Our statistics show that the number of declarations submitted was only lower than expected for a number of hours. However, the statistics show that the stability and availability of application over the last five years have improved significantly. In the short term, the processes are continuously improved so that the technical problems that may arise are better dealt with, thus limiting the time in which Tax-on-web is not available or accessible. Statistics from the past five years show that the duration of the technical breakdowns of Tax-on-web has been reduced. Tax-on-web availability has increased. In 2017, the figure was 97.98 %, in 2018 it was 98.76 %, in 2019 it was 99.38 % and in 2020 it was 99.99 %. The last year there was an availability of 99,61 %. In the long term, a new project is planned to complete the renewal of the application Tax-on-web.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u96	Minister, we must not underestimate this problem. The percentages are very clear, but we must not underestimate the breakdowns. Indeed, the numbers professions are wasting a great deal of time on these technical problems. You will no doubt know that fiscalists and accountants already have a lot of extra work this year, because it was a corona year with a lot of details, such as the right of bridging and corona unemployment. That creates a lot of extra burden for those bookkeepers and fiscalists. It is therefore important to improve the availability and accessibility of the system. This government is full of digitization. Well, then, let us bet on a flawless system that will enable the tax returns to be filed efficiently. Our group will certainly not hesitate to put this item back on the agenda for 21 October if it turns out that availability and accessibility are insufficient. We will not hesitate to ask for a postponement of these declarations and to postpone the deadline of 21 October. I hope, Minister, that you will be open to any delay if the technical circumstances so require.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u97	Mr Minister, I have already asked you in plenary last week about the explosion in energy prices. The most effective way to act quickly to reduce the energy bill is to reduce VAT from 21 % to 6 %. This is what Spain has done in the context of the various measures it has taken, but it is also the case of the European Commission and, in particular, the European Commissioner for Energy, Kadri Simson, who said that long-term measures are needed, but that there is an urgent need and that the fastest way to act is to lower the VAT on energy. Minister, my question is simple. The European Commission suggests reducing VAT on energy. Generally, when it imposes austerity or other policies on us, we always follow her finger on the sewing of pants. Today, it suggests that we lower the VAT on energy. What do you think, Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u98	Thank you very much, Mr Van Hees. You referred to it yourself, and I did indeed reply to a question from your colleague, Mr Colebunders, last week and said that I am not in favour of a rapid reduction in VAT in response to current energy prices. I raised a number of arguments at the time. I will repeat it for you today, but I will, of course, not change my mind on that at a week's notice. A general reduction in the rate of VAT on electricity is first and foremost a general and costly measure which also grants a rebate to people who do not need it financially at all. This reduction also does not encourage energy-efficient living and it also considerably prolongs the period of recovery of energy saving investments. Secondly, there is no guarantee that the VAT reduction is already fully beneficial to the customers of the energy suppliers. It cannot be excluded that a VAT reduction is used to increase margins. It is not something we see specifically in this sector, but when a VAT reduction is introduced we often see that it benefits the producer more than the consumer, especially if it applies for a long period of time. Thirdly, it should also be borne in mind that a reduction in the value added tax on electricity will delay the adjustment of wages to lifespan. Finally, I would like to point out that a 15% reduction in the rate of VAT on electricity has a significant budgetary impact. Such expenditure cannot and should not be treated lightly. The government is currently looking at ways to keep the electricity bill affordable. I can also tell you that the government is working on a reform of the offshore payment. The aim is to move away from the existing offshore surcharge, whereby the costs of the green electricity certificates for the production of offshore electricity are automatically passed on to the electricity bill. Instead, we would work with the ways and means of the state and an adaptation of the excise legislation. In the framework of this consultation, the possibility of reforming the federal electricity levy in a similar way is also being examined. For the moment, I do not want to give more details, but as soon as a proposal is drawn up within the government, it will of course be submitted to Parliament. Apparently, there has been some confusion about an explanation I have given earlier. In the context of this reform, I would like to clarify that the current offshore payment relates to about 6% of the average energy bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u99	Minister, you are telling me that you have already answered this question. No, the question I'm asking you here is specific. The European Commissioner and the European Commission generally suggest that countries do this because it is the fastest way to act on the energy bill. What do you think, you who generally apply everything the European Commission says? Here, for once it's social, you don't do it. That was the meaning of my question. Instead of answering that, you take back your reply from last Thursday. Excuse me, but that wasn't my question. In any case, your answers each time pose the same problem. You don't take the emergency into account. You say "we're going to do this one day" and you don't take into account that it affects the lowest income. They are the most affected by this energy increase. For example, on the issue of the index, even if there was a delay in the index-pivot, the lowest incomes would be won with a decrease in the VAT on energy. The same applies to the various points raised. Finally, I am looking at the fundamental position of the CD&V in relation to this. The CD&V was part of a government that reduced VAT to 6% on energy and was part of a government that increased it to 21%. One government in two, you're in favour and one government in two, you're against it. Is that it? I'm trying to follow logic.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u100	If you look at the statements of our party's ministers on these measures, you will see what our party's position is.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u101	If the president agrees, I will move on to the next question. This is the one that could have been attached to that of my PS colleague, since it also concerns the presence of European banks in tax havens.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u102	Mr Minister, my question, which could have been attached to that of my PS colleague, refers to the study by the European Tax Observatory, which shows that European banks have not significantly reduced their presence in tax havens in recent years. The study reviews the data published by 36 financial institutions over the period 2014-2020. It notes that the main European banks account for €20 billion, or 14% of their total profits, each year in 17 particularly favourable tax territories, including the Bahamas, the British Virgin Islands, the Cayman Islands, Jersey and Guernsey, Gibraltar, Hong Kong, Macao, etc. This percentage has remained stable since 2014. Profits recorded in tax havens are particularly high: €238,000 per employee, compared with €65,000 in other countries. The European Tax Observatory has calculated that additional income for the European States could be very important. KBC is ranked ninth in the ranking with 12.7% of its pre-tax profits recorded in tax havens. The G20 agreement on the minimum taxation of multinationals will not put an end to this tax evasion because the minimum rate of 15% remains well below the corporate tax rate in many countries. Minister, what initiatives are you going to take to effectively combat tax evasion by banks through tax havens?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u103	Mr Van Hees, I can tell you that particular attention is being paid to this issue at both international and national level. Contrary to what you say, I believe that the introduction of a minimum tax on the profits of multinational companies will have an effect on the tax practices mentioned in the report of the European Tax Observatory. Jurisdictions that currently do not levy taxes or apply only a low effective tax rate will face the possibility for the state in which the head office of the multinational company is located to impose lower or lower profits in those jurisdictions. For those jurisdictions that remain outside the scope of pillar 2 measures, I refer to the communication published by the European Commission on 18 May, stating, among other things, that they want to go further than the OECD and the G20 in the fight against international tax evasion. One of the points of action of this plan is the fight against the use of companies which do not have or very few substances or have very few economic activities, known as front companies. As you know, Belgium supports the Commission's intention to do so. At national level, I would first like to point out that the obligation to declare payments to tax havens has recently been extended. As from 1 January 2021, payments made to states mentioned in the European list of non-cooperative jurisdictions will also be included. In addition, within the framework of the first action plan of the College for the fight against tax and social fraud, it has been decided that the International Constructions Unit within the ISI will take initiatives to strengthen the operational coordination of the control of the use of international private constructions intended to escape tax or other obligations. A report will also be prepared for possible new administrative or legislative proposals. In addition, the College for Combating Tax and Social Fraud will soon develop a second action plan targeting international matters.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u104	Minister, I did not say that this G20 agreement on minimum tax would have no impact. I am a supporter of this agreement. I simply think that the rate of 15% is clearly insufficient. I've already had the opportunity to tell you. This is also the view of the European Tax Observatory. As far as tax havens are concerned, the problem is always the same: that of the list or lists of tax havens which are insufficient and that of measures or non-measures taken. I am pleased to hear that the European list will be added to the Belgian list of tax havens. But here it is: two deficient lists, if added together, it is better than one deficient list, but it is still deficient. In particular, there is a notable lack of European states that are among the most formidable tax havens for public finances and the most significant for multinationals using these tax havens. In addition to the problem of the list, there is the problem of the absence of genuine retaliatory measures against companies using tax havens. I cited KBC's case. She's still using tax havens and we're not doing anything. No action is taken to change this state of affairs. There are reporting obligations, certain RTD limitations, otherwise there is no retaliatory measure against companies using tax havens. Therefore, the situation will continue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u105	The newspaper "Echo" told us that the government was preparing a "start-up and transition" plan for the end of September. It's soon: we're 29! Five working groups have therefore been set up and you are chairing the working group which deals with the strategy for stimulating growth, entrepreneurship and job creation. The fact that the themes of stimulating growth and public investment are dealt with in two separate working groups is not necessarily a good signal. In addition, entrusting the chair of the growth stimulation working group to the Minister of Finance opens the door to tax gifts to businesses without consideration. This government, like the previous ones, has already practiced it. Consider, for example, the dispensation of payment of the professional discount, which must be the subject of a spending review: there is little to be said about it. The results were expected for the week of 20 September, this week. Can you elaborate on the measures proposed by the working group you are chairing to stimulate growth? Can you guarantee that the working group you chair does not offer tax gifts without consideration to businesses? Does the working group propose that companies should be granted new exemptions from the payment of the occupational allowance or that existing exemptions should be strengthened? Does the working group propose that further tax benefits be granted to businesses? Finally, do you assign specific, concrete and measurable objectives to each measure?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u106	The government is working on a reboot and transition plan. Five working groups have been set up for this purpose, each of which will develop a series of concrete proposals, namely: objectives of an inclusive and participatory society with strong social cohesion; a more digital society with a particular emphasis on administrative simplification; a strong dynamic that stimulates growth, entrepreneurship and job creation; a sustainable country that will achieve the transition to climate neutrality by 2050; and a modernisation and sustainability of our economy through additional investments. My strategic unit is leading the cluster on growth, entrepreneurship and job creation, but I can't give any details about it right now, these issues still need to be discussed further within the government and will be announced in due course.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u107	Thank you for your non-response, Minister. I understand that you have, in your answer, given all the elements that I myself had explained in my question since there was no question that followed. I'll take note of that. The government must first validate your secret proposals and we will see what happens.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u108	Minister, this question was addressed to the Secretary of State for the Budget, Ms De Bleeker, but it was sent back to you. I had asked this question because, in the debate that took place on the greening of company cars and on the charging stations, I had found that your answers were not very clear or very detailed about the budgetary impact of the installation of these charging stations. I thought I was going to ask Mrs. De Bleeker the question, but she sent us back to you. The government has introduced a bill to stimulate the installation of charging stations for electric cars through support to companies that install terminals and through a tax reduction for individuals who install a charging station at home. I thank you for all the details on this measure. I come directly to my questions. What will be the annual budgetary impact of each of these measures for the years 2021 to 2024? What assumptions have been used in the calculation of the budgetary impact? Are these assumptions based on scientific studies? I guess so. Will these measures be subject to a spending review process?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u109	The total cost of the increased deduction for companies installing a semi-public charging station is estimated at EUR 13.1 million. For personal charging stations, the cost can be estimated at EUR 14.8 million. These estimates were made on the basis of available data and realistic assumptions about the evolution of the electric car market. The actual cost can be determined on the basis of the data contained in the personal and corporate tax returns respectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u110	To close this working afternoon in beauty, I give the floor to the inescapable, the exceptional Benoît Piedboeuf.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u111	Madam President, I would like to take this opportunity to point out to my colleague Van Hees the full strength of democracy, since there are at least eight people present for his one-man-show.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u112	Mr. Piedboeuf, Mr. Van Hees doesn't just say nonsense! I'm listening carefully.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic585x.u113	Mr. Piedboef, a professional discount exemption is granted to universities and colleges that pay or contribute to the remuneration of assistant researchers. This concept is not defined in the tax text. In the case of university hospitals, such exemption may be granted if they have been recognised as approved scientific institutions or as private companies having registered their research project with BELSPO. Contacts have indeed taken place with the French Community concerning higher education. The administration recalled the basic principles, namely that, in order to be able to benefit from the exemption from occupational discount payment, the upper school must be a true employer, liable for the occupational discount, and all the tax and social obligations relating to employers must be fulfilled in its own name. The granting of the exemption always depends on compliance with the specific conditions of application. At present, some universities and colleges have filed claims to benefit from this exemption. These files are being processed by operational services.
