ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip119x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip119x.u2	Madam President, is there any news from the Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip119x.u3	Madam President, it may seem less suspicious to say that I have been in contact with the Prime Minister and that he is prepared to respond to Mr De Roover's interview tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip119x.u4	It is hardly suspicious that the President of the Chamber, after I have asked, says that she has been in contact with the Prime Minister. All I see are suspicious maneuvers where they are. That's not so spectacular news. There is an interplay on the agenda. Of course he's coming. If you say the opposite, it was news. That's not news. I asked to be kept informed in order to keep that interplay sound. I can absolutely live with him giving us the answers in writing today. Then he doesn't have to move for me. He's already on the agenda for tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip119x.u5	Mr De Roover, I would like to say that on Monday he also completely rearranged his agenda in order to be present in committee as long as possible. That is obvious to you, but the arrangements will have to be overtaken. Those involved must also be treated with respect, as must you. The debate should not be held three times. That's what this is about. There is no point in once again asking questions on the same subject today and tomorrow. The Prime Minister will take the necessary time for you tomorrow and answer your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip119x.u6	Madam President, the relevance of the question is being lightened. We had a chance last Monday, but he left prematurely. I understand that there are agenda reasons, but there is - and you will agree with me here - the importance of parliamentary control. He had to leave prematurely, the debate was not exhausted. There are also new elements, I repeat. These new elements are, among other things, the result of statements by the Prime Minister at the time, following the request of several colleagues for a timeline. In the meantime, this timeline has become even more important, because in the meantime, documents have been leaked in the media. As a result, the decent time frame that was mentioned on Monday, but still with some unclear time indications, has been widened. It is an interesting matter, it is about notes of state security. I wouldn't trivialize all that. We want to know exactly what happened. The Prime Minister could have given that on Monday. It's not that we don't have patience. Last Monday, that question was asked to him. I can absolutely live with the fact that this is being delivered in writing and that we will be able to discuss it in the interplay tomorrow. This interplay will not take place very early in the day, ladies and gentlemen, because there is still a lot of work to be done here. Each Member of Parliament is, of course, free to fully fulfil his or her role. Apart from the fact that the Prime Minister does not need to be physically present, I continue to insist that he respond today to the questions asked. That may be written, but I can live perfectly with it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip119x.u7	Mr De Roover, the answer I received from the Prime Minister is that, according to him, the agenda is clear. Tomorrow all questions can be asked during the interviews and he will then answer them, including the elements you asked for.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip119x.u8	That is fine, Madam President, but I would like to ask for the application of Rule 50 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip119x.u9	Okay, then we'll have to vote on your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip119x.u10	A motion was tabled by Mr Peter De Roover and reads as follows: "Requested the presence of the Prime Minister, Art. Art. 100 GW and Art. 100 GW and Art. 100 GW and Art. 100 GW and Art. 100 GW and Art. 100 GW and Art. 100 GW and Art. 100 GW and Art. 100 GW and Art. 100 GW and Art. 100 GW and Art. Since the Prime Minister made a statement on Monday in the Health Committee on the investigation of State security under the former Government Commissioner for the Institute for Gender Equality and the communication of research to the Minister of Justice's Office; since the Prime Minister has not made available to Parliament the timeline requested by several members of the Chamber (State Security/communications to Cabinets) and substantive knowledge in the said committee; since Monday, information on the investigation of State Security and the communication of the Administrator-General of State Security to the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Justice has been published in the press; Since the information published in the press may not be consistent with the Prime Minister's statements in Parliament, the Member of the Government should be brought forward without delay in order to clarify the timeline previously requested. At least, supported by supporting documents, it shall indicate: - when the said note of State Security was drawn up when it was delivered by the Security of the State (day and hour) to the Justice Office or another cabinet; - when (day and hour) they were delivered to the Prime Minister and the Secretary of State for Gender Equality, Equal Opportunities and Various Opportunities and by whom; - to which other members of the government they were delivered, by whom and when (day and hour).' A motion was tabled by Mr. Peter De Roover and reads as follows: "Claiming the presence of the Prime Minister – Art. In addition, the Constitution of the Republic of Lithuania and the Constitution of the Republic of Lithuania (art. 50 of the Regulation In view of the Prime Minister's statements this Monday in the Health Committee on the State Security Investigation into the former Government Commissioner for the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men and the transmission to the Office of the Minister of Justice of the results thereof; having regard to the fact that, at the time of the above-mentioned committee, the Prime Minister did not make available to Parliament the time line (inquiry of the State Security/communication to the cabinet(s) and knowledge of the content of the note) requested by several members of the House; having regard to the publication in the press since Monday of information relating to the investigation of the State Security and the communication of the deputy head of State Security to the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Justice; Given the possible discrepancy between the information published in the press and the Prime Minister's statements in Parliament, the presence of the member of the government must be required without delay, in order to provide explanations about the time line previously requested. It shall, as a minimum, specify in a documented manner: - the time at which the State Security Note was drafted, was transmitted (date and time) to the law firm or any other law firm; - the time (date and time) at which and by whom the said note was transmitted to the Prime Minister and the Secretary of State for Gender Equality, Equal Opportunities and Diversity; - the other members of the government who received the note, who gave it to them and at what time (date and time)." I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip119x.u11	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Daniel Senesael, Eric Thiébaut, Jean-Marc Delizée, Hervé Rigot.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip119x.u12	The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1809/4) The text adopted by the Committee is the basis for the discussion (Rgt 85, 4) (1809/4) The discussion is open. The meeting's open. The rapporteur is Mrs Ingels, who refers to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip119x.u13	Madam President, I see that Mr Senesael has been eager for a few hours. First of all, I would like to thank him very warmly for the good proposal for a resolution, which was also adopted unanimously in committee. I am a frontier resident myself, so the content of the motion for a resolution is very close to my heart. I just want to make a few points out of the proposal, which I personally consider to be very important. A first point is the improvement of the right of opinion and the authorisation of cross-border pursuit. In 2018, Belgium concluded an agreement with the Benelux countries to do so, so it is urgent that France follow. We fully support you in this. Another thing that is very close to my heart is the real-time sharing of information. In the meantime, I have not been a government commissioner for ASTRID for almost three years, but I can assure you that at the time, we have also tried to make structural improvements to interconnectivity with France. However, we were constantly bumping into a njet from the French government. I've informed you of the situation. I'm quoting from the text I got.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip119x.u14	"If a Belgian user crosses the border, he or she may no longer have coverage of his or her Tetra network and then he or she will need a Tetrapol radio to continue communicating." I dare say that in 2021 it is quite unacceptable that our policemen should be confronted with this and that they should simply exchange radios at the border. Meanwhile, ASTRID has embarked on a modernisation process to operate via the regular mobile network. It's gonna be a couple of years before that's done. So we really have a problem there. Finally, I quote the organisation of exercises and joint training courses. It's especially important that people get to know each other. People from the border police area especially notice a great deal of indifference among their French colleagues. It seems as if the border and border crime are no longer a priority for the French. Perhaps it might be helpful for these people to get to know each other by taking common exercises and training courses. That is how the indifference should be reduced. The N-VA will fully support this resolution and we will also watch over its further follow-up.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip119x.u15	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mrs Ingels, for the work she has done and the words she has given me. As you know, ladies and gentlemen, many forms of regional, national and international crime are regularly observed on both sides of the Franco-Belgian border. I am talking about crimes of home abuse, robberies in homes and cars, car theft, illicit trafficking in narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances. These forms of crime are facilitated by the presence of the border, which often benefits cross-border criminals. It is in no way binding on them, while it often presents itself as an obstacle to border police officers. Agreements on cross-border police cooperation were concluded between Belgium and France in 2001 and 2013, known as the Tournai I and II Agreements. These agreements have, it is true, made a number of decisive, if not significant, advances. But it must be noted that many problems remain and that a process of structural improvement must be initiated. These elements were highlighted in particular by a monitoring survey by Committee P, published in 2020. This survey is entitled Cross-border cooperation between Belgium and France for police areas in the provinces of Hainaut and West Flanders. Our colleague Mrs Ingels referred to it a moment ago. On the basis of this investigation and contacts with several members of border police areas and representatives of the French police – to whom we wish a good holiday – we have tabled a motion for a resolution aimed, on the one hand, at the effective implementation of some of the measures of the Tournai II agreement and, on the other hand, at the implementation of initiatives complementary to the measures of the Tournai II agreement, initiatives consisting in the facilitation of cross-border prosecutions, the improvement of communication between the Belgian and French services, and, on the other hand, at the obligation to take appropriate training for any police officer arriving in the border area. I would point out, of course, that these initiatives will only be possible in negotiations with the French Government, a necessity mentioned in our requests. Shortly after the presentation of the text in committee we received the written opinions of the Directorate of International Police Cooperation (CGI) and of the Minister of the Interior on this subject, which enriched our reflection and motivated the drafting of several amendments to the initial requests. I would also like to thank the CGI and the Minister for their enlightening texts and the valuable information they provide. Allow me also to thank my colleagues in the Committee on the Interior who have approved this proposal and its amendments. Finally, I would like to point out, being from Estaimpuis, a border commune of 23 kilometres with France, of which I have the honour of being the mayor for 27 years now, that cross-border criminal phenomena directly impact the lives of our border fellow citizens. I will therefore try to pay particular attention – and I have no doubt for a moment that my colleague Yngvild Ingels will also be – to the follow-up that will be given to the demands of this resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip119x.u16	Madam President, Mr Senesael, first of all I would like to congratulate you. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not hold my speech too long in view of the progress made today and the many discussions that have yet to take place. As mentioned by previous speakers, we are increasingly finding that several forms of regional, national and even international crime occur on both sides of the French-Belgian border. Because the Belgian and French police forces and the courts are still different, it becomes almost interesting for a number of people with bad intentions to cross state boundaries and commit criminal offences. It can even be said that the restrictions that apply to Belgian and French police forces today are likely to facilitate the development of this form of crime. This has an impact not only on the work of police officers in the border area, but also, of course, on many citizens who are afraid of being in the border area. On the basis of a report by the P Committee, the present resolution calls for negotiations to be launched, to provide effective solutions to the problems raised, to effectively implement the provisions of the Tournai Agreement and to supplement the agreement with a view to a structural improvement in Belgian-French police cooperation. When I first saw the resolution, I had the first reaction to the question of, for example, the Netherlands and how things were arranged there. Border crime is not just between Belgium and France. As a Limburger, I am well aware of the fact that this also raises the necessary problems, including the drug criminality between Dutch and Belgian Limburg. However, the Convention of 8 July 2004 between the Benelux countries on cross-border police action provides the necessary tools in this respect. I am somewhat reassured by the fact that a new draft law is being drafted today, which allowed me to concentrate further on the resolution before us. In summary, international cooperation is a necessary part of preventing and combating organised crime and terrorism. Initiatives to improve cross-border police cooperation are always positive, but of course they must always respect the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens. In conclusion, I will only say that my group will, of course, support this resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip119x.u17	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled. The vote on the proposal will take place at a later stage. The vote on the proposal will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip119x.u18	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mrs Van Bossuyt, she refers to her written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip119x.u19	Madam President, I would like to intervene briefly as chairman of the interparliamentary union between Belgium and Serbia. Since 2017 I have been able to follow up on this collaboration behind the scenes. We may disagree, as has happened today on the first item on the agenda, but fortunately we can also agree with each other. There is also a strong text for this today, initiated in 2017. Mrs Van Bossuyt has already said in committee that we will fully support this. I must also pass on the congratulations of the ambassador of Serbia to this House and to the Minister, but you know that too, because you are in close contact. We will certainly support this strong text.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip119x.u20	The Minister for Foreign Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip119x.u21	Madam President, I would like to thank my colleague for his support, and I do not have much else to add.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip119x.u22	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip119x.u23	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2015/1) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2015/1) The bill has two articles. The draft law has two articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip119x.u24	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip119x.u25	I propose that you devote one general discussion to these two bills. I propose that a single general discussion be devoted to these two draft laws. [[Assent]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip119x.u26	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip119x.u27	Madam Chair, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip119x.u28	Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip119x.u29	We shall now proceed to the discussion of the articles of Bill No. 2048. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2048/1) We shall begin by discussing the articles of Bill No. 2048. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2048/1) The bill has three articles. The draft law has 3 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip119x.u30	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. We shall now proceed to the discussion of the articles of Bill No. 2051. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2051/1) We shall begin by discussing the articles of Bill No. 2051. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2051/1) The bill has two articles. The draft law has two articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip119x.u31	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip119x.u32	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Georges Dallemagne, Koen Metsu, François De Smet, Malik Ben Accour, Michel De Maegd, Samuel Cogolati, Els Van Hoof, Goedele Liekens, Vicky Reynaert, Wouter De Vriendt.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip119x.u33	The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1766/7) The text adopted by the Committee is the basis for the discussion (Rgt 85, 4) (1766/7) The European Union and its Member States reaffirm their commitment to respect for human rights and respect for human rights and the rule of law and the rule of law. The inscription in Dutch was changed by the committee to "proposal of resolution on the recognition and prosecution of the genocide crimes committed against the Jezidis and on aid to the Jezid people." The discussion is open. The meeting's open. The rapporteur is Mr Cogolati. He refers to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip119x.u34	Madam President, you say that Mr Cogolati refers to his written report, but there is no written report. An oral report would be presented here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip119x.u35	I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip119x.u36	Madam President, there are so many days when a politician can make a success of himself. Sometimes, however, there are also frustrating setbacks. Today, fortunately, we are talking about the first. Seven months ago, Mr Dallemagne and I were there. We were allowed to meet the Jezidi community and their spiritual leader Baba Sheikh in Dohuk. We have experienced, heard, experienced and seen improbable things in Syria and Iraq. In some back room we made a promise to Baba Sheikh. We told him that their story had crawled under our skin, that we would not let go of it and that we would work hard to first of all recognise the genocide on the Jezidis. After all, this is very important in order to be able to feel valuable and valued again. By the way, we'd be trying to go even further. We have worked on a text for six months, which is quite far-reaching. It is not just the recognition of genocide. Commission President Els Van Hoof has been so willing to organise very interesting hearings. Whoever hasn't been to Dohuk and hasn't heard the stories has heard them here. Any colleague can agree that what the Jezidis have been through is heavenly. We are allies and partners in the fight against ISIS. They have proven that they are proud to protect us from this Islamist monster. Now we can do something in return. I would also like to thank the President of the Chamber for having received Mrs Bachar with the necessary respect. She was also allowed to write in the book. I think she felt absolutely appreciated by the reception of the President of the Chamber. This resolution was initiated by the opposition and by Mr Dallemagne and I sometimes wondered what would happen. Could we continue with this text? I would like to thank the members of the Committee on External Relations for playing it very fair and collegially. They have enriched our text with the necessary amendments that we have been delighted to support. That gives me some confidence in politics again. Of course, this resolution does not solve the whole problem because there are still 2,500 Jezidi women and children in Daesh's hands. To adopt a resolution, hopefully unanimously, is one thing, but of course we also expect the government to come up with a ready-made response and an adapted plan very soon. The Jezidis also said that they are a bit of a forgotten people. Nadia Murad, the Nobel Prize winner of 2018, also confirmed that during the hearing. She has the impression that the only friends of the Jezidis are the mountains, with which she refers to the Sinjar Mountains. We have now made it clear that we are also allies of the Jezidis. Yesterday, I was allowed to have a Zoom conversation with the Armenian President of the Jezidis. Our resolution does not fall on a cold stone, it does not fall on deaf ears. On the contrary, its impact on the community is enormous. Witnessing this are all the statements of support that are coming and the fact that the Netherlands, on the basis of our resolution, also said a few weeks later that it will recognise the genocide. In the Netherlands, the recognition is still purely a matter of recognition. Maybe they will go further later, but I am rather proud that we managed to do that together. Of course we still have to wait for tomorrow's vote. I am a little premature, but the vote in committee was very encouraging. Allow me also to thank you, Madam Secretary, for your cabinet was certainly more than willing. You have also supported us to adapt certain things. However, our greatest thanks go to Mr Dallemagne of the cdH, who has partly opened my eyes over there, because in the field the best sense is how the fork is on the handle. Then one can also generate correct texts and act as it should. Mr Dallemagne, we have come to a very strong text together and I would like to thank you very much for the excellent cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip119x.u37	I would like to join Mr Metsu's thanks and congratulations. I do believe that the way in which we have worked here on a common text, regardless of the political parties, and that we are from the majority or the opposition, following two days of hearings, with quality work and direct listening to the victims - Nadia Murad and Lamiya Aji Bashar, who were here in the Chamber to talk about these atrocities, is a force of respect. As a young parliamentarian with only two years of experience, I sincerely hope that we can renew this experience. I really think it's positive. It is true that after the capture of Mosul by the Islamic State and the proclamation of the Caliphate at the end of June 2014, the Yezidian minority in the Sinjar region in northern Iraq had been targeted. The men had been massacred. Women and children had been subjected to sexual slavery. Indeed, in the 21st century, women and children were captured, sold, used, exploited as slaves. They were raped and ill-treated. We have heard these atrocious crimes over two days of hearing, with particularly moving testimony. Of course, from the survivors who fled the Islamic State's claws, we have heard testimony of executions, abductions, slavery, forced conversions, forced recruitments suffered by thousands of members of this Yezidi community, especially women who have suffered the serious crimes. These crimes bear a name in international law. Several academics had already done their job several years ago. We have also read the reports of Human Rights Watch and Amnesty International. More recently, we have heard the unequivocal conclusions of the United Nations Special Adviser, Karim Khan, who has been a prosecutor of the International Criminal Court in The Hague for the past few weeks. He spoke very clearly before the United Nations Security Council. He spoke of clear and convincing evidence that a genocide was committed by the Islamic State against the Yezidis as a religious group. He also spoke of crimes against humanity and serious war crimes. Our answer, ladies and gentlemen, is not to stand idly by, but to recognize these atrocities not only as crimes against humanity, but also as genocide – I would like once again to thank our colleague Georges Dallemagne for his initiative – and to take action, to act, to set an example as a European country. I'd like to go back to two things. Indeed, this is not the first time – and unfortunately it will not be the last time either – that we are debating, in our Assembly, the recognition of the crime of crimes under international law, perhaps the worst of atrocities, namely the crime of genocide recognized in the 1948 UN Convention. I would like to reject this doctrine which I have heard in recent months, which basically said no short no genocide. This rather political doctrine is of absolute ridicule. It must be borne in mind that Belgium, like hundreds of other countries, has ratified the 1948 Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide. It's not just a moral argument. It is not just a pious wish, an ethical argument, the crime of genocide remains a crime under international law, a legal notion that we use purposefully. We are a Parliament, the House of Representatives, a body of the Belgian State, representatives of the Nation and if we use this term today, I think it is not just symbolic. We have an international obligation, a legal obligation under the 1948 Convention, not only to prevent but also to punish the crime of genocide. How do you want to prevent a future or ongoing genocide crime if you have to wait for the judgment of an international tribunal? That is why the common sense International Court of Justice, already in the 1990s when it dealt with the serious crimes committed in Europe, particularly with the crime of genocide in Srebrenica, had completely rejected this argument. That is the whole meaning of the appeal that we are making today. It is about ending impunity. We must take on our responsibilities as parliamentarians. Yes, we must solemnly affirm – and I hope tomorrow after a unanimous vote – that the massacre of the Yezidis must be described as genocide and that, yes, there was indeed an intention to destroy this particular group. Once again, it's good to say it. It's better to do it. We must absolutely avoid merely denouncing serious abuses, serious violations of human rights and international law. We must do everything possible to do justice, to take action, to hold accountable and thus to prosecute the perpetrators of these crimes of genocide. At the international level, things are not simple. In the Security Council, China and Russia have so far, with their veto power, rejected the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court in The Hague to prosecute these crimes under international humanitarian law, which were sanctioned in the Rome Statute. An international tribunal such as the Nuremberg court, although many people are talking about it, has not yet come into being and would take a lot of time anyway to set up. Hence, I believe, I believe, the interest of being able to pursue the genocidals of the Islamic State in at least two ways at the national, domestic level. This is seen with the example of the courts and tribunals in Germany, and on the basis of the principle of universal jurisdiction, there is a way to prosecute the perpetrators of serious crimes under international humanitarian law. There are examples of former members of Daesh prosecuted today in German courts and tribunals. Our country must also do its utmost to prosecute Belgian or foreign authors who have their principal place of residence in Belgium. This is a very strong signal that we are sending through this resolution. I would add that it is now crucial that the perpetrators of these crimes are not left in nature and are able to go through the justice box.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip119x.u38	Madam President, first of all I would like to thank Mr Metsu and Mr Dallemagne for raising this delicate but important issue. The horrible and captivating testimonies during the hearings gave us goose bumps. The proposal aims to recognise and condemn the genocide committed by the Islamic State against the Jezid people in Iraq and Syria. Since 2014, the Jezidis, a Kurdish-speaking ethnic religious minority from the North East of Iraq, have become the victims of horrific extermination policies of IS. By various methods, IS has tried to wipe this minority completely off the map by mass execution of the Jezidi men, enlisting and indoctrinating their children and separating them from their mothers, who were sold as sex slaves to IS fighters. We can also speak of a cultural genocide on the people of Jezid. Their culture had to be completely eradicated, as they were considered to be devil worshippers by the Muslim fundamentalists of IS. It was clear from the rhetoric and statements of IS fighters that all those actions committed against the Jezidis were part of a systematic, intensive policy. What has happened to the Jezidian minority in Iraq and Syria since 2014 meets, as far as we are concerned, all the legal criteria of genocide, both physically and culturally. It goes without saying that the Flemish interest strongly condemns these atrocities, inspired by the fanatical Islamic doctrine of the jihad, and hopes that the perpetrators will be punished. The Jezidi women were not considered women or even human beings, but as spoils of war and property with which you do whatever you want. Hence the mass rapes of Jezidi women by IS fighters, which we can hardly imagine. As Mrs Pari Ibrahim pointed out at the hearing, the rape culture is inherent in the Islamic doctrine. Of course, it is beastly to commit such atrocities, and then it is not only rape or extermination of entire Jezidi villages, but also the disposal of killed children in a garbage dump, as food for dogs, as Mr Vranckx testified during the hearing. The fact that we can hardly imagine such horrors means that there is a great difference in civilisation value and moral beliefs, which are inspired by a certain religious doctrine in IS. IS fighters themselves justify their actions because it is in the sacred Islamic scriptures that prisoners of war can be enslaved.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip119x.u39	It follows that they are not entitled to physical and sexual integrity and should therefore be raped. Mrs Ibrahim put her finger on the sore wound at the hearing. Of course we support the resolution before us, there is no doubt about it. What is somewhat striking to us is that, more than logically speaking, there is a consensus on the punishment of the perpetrators in this dossier, but at the same time a totally wrong approach is being pursued in Parliament when it comes to recovering IS widows and their children. However, I would like to remind you of the overwhelming responsibility of the majority when it comes to the possible repatriation of IS widows. Initially only the children would be repatriated, but now also the IS mothers will be brought back, who were often even more fanatic than their husbands. This was also confirmed convincingly during the hearings. Moreover, in fact, the worst part, those women were fully involved in the rapes of the Jezidi women. Especially as a woman, that's beyond comprehension. Those IS women, by the way, have raised their children with a deep-rooted and invested hatred of our society. So all the ingredients for a huge national security risk and potential terror are present here. Doesn't the majority consider that to be contradictory? Is that the way people want to do the Jezidis a favor? That's what I'm wondering. If one wants to punish IS for what it has done, then one allows ISs to bear the consequences of their actions and punish them at the place where they have committed their crimes. ISIS children have not chosen to grow up there, but neither has our society chosen to release children, including their mothers, who are released from our society after two to five years. Also international law does not require us to actively repatriate Belgian ISs, so that is no excuse. Having said that, we naturally fully support this resolution. We also recognise and condemn the genocide committed by ISIS against the Jezidian people. Legal criteria, based on Article 2 of the 1948 UN Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of Genocides, apply, so this resolution is a necessary signal. We also support the demand to assist the Jezidian people on the ground in their relocation to their residential area, to provide assistance on reconstruction and to provide humanitarian relief. Not least, we support the logical question of using all national and international remedies to punish the perpetrators of this genocide and to ask the Minister of Justice to identify and punish the Belgian perpetrators on our territory. However, we continue to advocate the punishment of the IS fighters present in Iraq and Syria in the countries where they have committed their atrocities.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip119x.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, today we have to take a decision on a text calling for recognition of the genocide of the Yezidis. This community, estimated at 800,000 individuals worldwide, has been subjected to numerous persecutions. The last date was August 2014. On that date, several villages in Sinjar province in northern Iraq were targeted by the Daesh djhadists. Some 3,000 people — men, women and the elderly — were murdered, beheaded and tortured. The testimonies of Yezidi women, raped in front of their families and of girls forcibly converted and promised to slavery, which we heard in committee during the hearings on this text, raise the heart. I will insist on the issue of rape as a weapon of war: this assumed, decomplexed, horrible, inhumane and dehumanized will to destroy the woman, to make her an object, to make her a slave. These are abominable, unacceptable acts, but they also forcefully reflect the determination of the men of Daesh to destroy the fertile belly. This fully contributes to the clear will to destroy a people. We have seen and noted this again in our amendments, a UN investigation and the reports of several human rights organisations have recognized these abuses as genocide. The lawyers we have heard have also formally stated this. That is why the PS Group and all the colleagues in the Vivaldi coalition have decided to support the text of our colleague George Dallemagne, whom I thank once again for his initiative. This is all the more important for us as Belgians, with Belgium accounting for about 5,000 Yézidis. The majority of refugees live in the province of Liège where this community has built a cultural centre. We have seen, through the voice of its President, Mr. Suleyman Agirman, how much the question of the recognition of the Sinjar massacres as acts of genocide is largely awaited. It is for this reason that we call for our institution to recognize the genocide of the Yezidis because it is a strong symbolic and political qualification, long awaited by the whole community. This also allows Belgium to position itself as one of the first European countries to recognize the genocide that took place in 2014.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip119x.u41	Ladies and gentlemen, we find ourselves once again in this Chamber to evoke the unimaginable, the inacceptable, the intolerable! A few weeks ago, we were voting here for a resolution to defend the Rohingya. Just a few days ago, it was the fate of the Uighurs that we shared our attention. Today, it is the Yezidis who are at the heart of our concerns. As I said in committee, we cannot help asking the question: how many more times will we have to intervene in favour of oppressed peoples? So how far can man go in cruelty and horror? As with the Rohingya, as with the Uighurs, what we have heard in recent weeks in the Committee on External Relations concerning the Yezidis goes beyond understanding and makes it difficult to maintain faith in humanity. The horror against which we have found ourselves has prompted us to react firmly. That is what we have done with this resolution. We approached our work through a double prism. First of all, the victims. I remember, of course, like all of you, ladies and gentlemen, the chilling testimony of Nadia Murad, Nobel Peace Prize winner in 2018. Through her struggle, she opened the eyes of the international community to the plight of women who were raped and sold as slaves. Let us not lose sight of the fact that, if we know the face of Nadia Murad, we must not forget the faces of all these women, of all these young girls, of all these children reduced to goals, to objects, to suffering that will haunt them forever if these people still have the chance to live. Survivors, survivors, orphans, it is thanks to their testimonies, their courage, their dignity that we measure how much it is not about numbers or words, but about the irreplaceable thickness of their lives. These words say a tragedy with a name: genocide. These are the words of the French President during his visit to Rwanda last May. I think that these Yezidi women, caught in the vice of another executioner, yet applying the same cruelty, also want a recognition of their suffering. The accounts of Father Desbois before our commission bear witness to this. Whatever the continent, the executioners have the same face and the same practices. The victims are the same, persecuted according to the same false arguments with the same weapons, and living to their last breath with the same suffering, the same memories. They have the same requirements: recognition and condemnation. The Yezidis are in fact now, ladies and gentlemen, directly threatened in their very existence: the forced recruitment of children into the fighting forces, the sexual slavery of women, systematic persecution, massacres and a determination to eradicate them; the acts committed against them are of such extreme gravity that their nature is no doubt. We also addressed the prism of the executioners after that of the victims. How can we not be particularly affected by this situation, when we think that it involves some of our compatriots, who have gone, in the name of a barbaric ideology, to fight far from home? They carried out an extermination work against civilian populations with the aim of killing them all to the last, making them disappear completely, eradicating them for ethnic or religious reasons. In the face of these facts, the testimony of victims and the collection of evidence by UNITAD, a United Nations agency, revealing the faces of the executioners, we had to react firmly with a legal correctness that accurately and truthfully describes the facts. Colleagues, as I have already had the opportunity to say in committee, there are issues that transcend divisions. In a case like this, there is no more majority or opposition. There are no more parties. There is only the community of those who defend life against barbarism, horror and death. All democratic parties had to be based on these values that underpin our society. The text we are about to vote on has been initiated by colleagues Dallemagne and Metsu. Here I would like to thank them sincerely for the work they have done and the personal involvement they have invested in it for many years. All the groups then joined them. I'm glad. That was important. Of course, as a branch of the legislative power, we are legalists and we cannot legally assert that we are facing genocide until the judicial institution establishes it. But that does not prevent us from already saying politically that it is in the face of this horror that we find ourselves. We must therefore both recognize it and, above all, condemn it. That is precisely the objective of our first point. Through this text, the House of Representatives recognizes and condemns the crime of genocide perpetrated by the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria against the Yezidis from the year 2014. It was even imperative that the political power we represent publicly recognize the facts, before a court convicts a Belgian person or who has a dual nationality, including Belgian nationality, for the crime of genocide. This conviction by a court will allow the federal government to fully recognize this crime of genocide. Failure to recognize this genocide politically before a proper trial was a denial of the facts, yet documented and heavily carried by the victims. We have witnessed this during the debates in committee. This was unacceptable, unthinkable on the part of this House. That is a very strong gesture that we are about to make, ladies and gentlemen. We owe it to all these women, men and children. Recognition of the facts is one thing, the fight against impunity is another. We also call on the Government to use all domestic and international means of law to ensure that this crime does not go unpunished and to play an international role in this field by actively promoting cooperation between the Member States of the European Union and other States sharing the same ideas. In Kigali, Emmanuel Macron, whom I quoted, also had these words to which I fully subscribe: "Recognizing this past is also and above all pursuing the work of justice, committing us that no person suspected of genocide can escape justice." Of course, we call for sustained efforts to identify and prosecute any Belgian perpetrators of this crime, including through close collaboration with UNITAD. We know the difficulty of this undertaking: the collection of evidence, the establishment of an impartial court, a scale of penalties that does not include the execution of the death penalty. Finally, we ask how Belgium can support, in a multilateral framework, efforts to release Yezidi women and children still in captivity from the Islamic State as we speak. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would not like to finish my speech without speaking again about the victims. They must be at the centre of our approach. They have the right to return home, to rebuild psychologically, physically, to live in peace and security, to rebuild their homes and places of worship. They must receive material and psychological help to return to the path of forever broken existence. We wanted a strong text that responds precisely to their situation. I think we've made it. As I said in the introduction, once again we find ourselves having to adopt a text to protect a persecuted population. This must make us aware of the chance we have to live in our regions, where peace and stability seem so natural to us. It must also make us realize that nothing is ever acquired and that we must be vigilant at every moment. Finally, it must make us realize that we have our role to play in helping all these populations, who are unjustifiably victims of barbarism around the world. Let us tell the Yezidis who hear us, who listen to us, that we are aware of their situation, that we are at their side, and that we will not let them down. Let us do everything we can to stop this barbarism and ensure that justice is done. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip119x.u42	Madam President, our group is also pleased that this resolution is before us today and that it can be voted on tomorrow. These horrible crimes can't stand any dawdling. It is important that there should be no contradiction between majority and opposition. We all thought it was important that we could put this to the vote very quickly after the hearings by unanimity. They were strong hearings on the basis of a good proposal from Mr Dallemagne, supported by Mr Metsu, who returned from northern Iraq with a heavy backpack. They wanted to testify about the atrocities in Parliament. They also wanted action from it. We are grateful to them for that. The question of the Jezidis was very clear: give us our dignity back. That question also lingered after the captivating testimonies of Nadia Murad and Mrs Buchar? in our committee on their period as sex slaves with the terror group IS. Three things are needed: recognition, recovery and punishment. The Jezidi's ask to acknowledge what has been done to them and to name what it is, namely genocide. We want to give that strong signal to the victims today. We acknowledge your suffering and what has been done to you. Internationally, this message is already getting results. It was very striking that such a resolution was accepted in the Dutch House of Representatives after our committee and our unanimously accepted proposal. That is the intention of such resolutions. We are not naive, we can change things here, so that there is a snowball effect in Europe and the rest of the world. The United States was the first to speak of genocide. The UNITAD report of the UN research team provided very strong evidence and talked about a mountain of evidence. It was a very explicit, systematic and targeted strategy of terror group IS to destroy Jezidi's. They systematically carried out massacres. I was particularly touched by the story of women who were resold as sex slaves. There were Sharia courts that arranged at which price slaves were resold depending on age. These are things that one imagines in the eighteenth or nineteenth century, but no longer today. It is particularly shocking that this was applied by men and boys who were raised in the West. The title Kill them wherever you find them was also made very clear in the various videos shown about the Jezidi's. This recognition is an important point. A second important point is the punishment. If one wants to give dignity, one can recognise it, but punishing it is also important for those who have had to undergo it. This must not go unpunished, which is why we consider it important to play an international leading role in this and to use all domestic and international remedies to ensure that this crime is not allowed to go unpunished. I heard the honourable Member say that it is appalling that these women are being returned to our country, but I heard in the hearings that they are also time bombs on the ground. I hope that they can be tried there, but I must not think that they will not be tried, that the Kurds will give up the monitoring of the camps and that these women will be released and will easily find their way back to the West and will have the same impact here as in the past. We must be aware of this and remain vigilant. "Don't get them back" is a hollow slogan, but I'd still like them not to get out and be tried somehow. The international recognition of the genocide is important, which is why our group has tabled a proposal in which it advocates the adoption within the UN Security Council of a resolution enabling the International Criminal Court or an ad hoc tribunal or a hybrid tribunal to recognise these crimes so that the perpetrators can be tried for these crimes. A third important element is recovery. Can we ever heal these festering wounds? I suspect that it is not easy to live with it, not even in the future, but it is important that we send a signal and provide support with funds. These women have had to undergo inhuman and degrading treatment. They don't wipe that out with a little therapy here or there. We need to do more with that. The agreements between Iraqi Kurdistan and Baghdad were concluded under the auspices of the UN. This committee must ensure that this agreement is implemented so that people can live in safety again in their own village or community, which was destroyed, that it is restored and that there are security forces there. They must be able to return safely, because they are still living in camps today. Those wounds will continue to fester if we do not give them the chance to live together in good and safe conditions in rebuilt villages and cities. We also consider the unprecedented cooperation between opposition and majority on such proposals to be extremely important. I also think it is important that we keep the remaining prisoners in mind. We must be able to free them. Resettlement programmes should be supported, including for Jezidi women who may not be united with their rape-born children but wish to do so. We must also pay attention to this, in addition to the material and psychological trauma processing. I think it is important that we give this signal today. I hope that it will be repeated vigorously and that we will also implement everything in this resolution. I hope that we will be able to offer some recovery to the badly affected Jezidi community.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip119x.u43	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we will of course also support this resolution. Unfortunately, I was unable to attend the hearings, but I did review them. When I heard the testimonies and anecdotes told there, I couldn't believe my ears. It was about brutality and dehumanization, children who were left in a dump as food for the dogs, women who were humiliated and demoted into sex toys and jezidimmen who were murdered in cold blood in front of their loved ones. That shows an improbable cruelty, as well as Daesh's intention to eradicate that community. It bears witness to an incredible barbarity. Genocide is also the heaviest form of crime against humanity. We remember the images of the Jezidi community, which were desperately hiding on Mount Sinjar, until they were appalled. It is very important to emphasise that we are talking here about a genocide identified by the UN and independent observers. So there can be no doubt about that. As stated in the resolution, convincing evidence has been gathered that Daesh has committed genocide on the Jezidis as a religious group. It was a planned, organised, systematic and conscious strategy. That is also apparent from the hearings. The legal experts declared that unanimously, they did not have the slightest doubt about it. We also very much appreciate the fact that this resolution recognises the Belgian involvement and responsibility for this crime against humanity. This responsibility is not being avoided, it is being appointed, and concrete recommendations are being made to alleviate and remedy the terrible situation of the victims by our country. It also appoints what the Belgian State must do to hold survivors under Belgian jurisdiction responsible, liable and tried. Once again, we will support this resolution unconditionally.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip119x.u44	Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on External Relations has had two days of very emotionally intense hearings on this subject. Especially the testimonies of Lamiya Bashar and Nadia Murad from the village of Kocho from northern Iraq were personally very touching for me. After five attempts, Lamiya managed to escape from the hands of IS fighters who counted her their property, but lost two girls who had escaped a land mine with her during the flight. Nadia suffered the same fate, but lost her mother and her six brothers who were horribly murdered. Thanks to their testimonies, the world is witnessing the horror that took place there in August 2014, but also of what thousands of girls and women are still experiencing today. After all, as has already been mentioned here, more than 2,500 girls and women are still missing. I am very pleased that Parliament has joined forces, across the borders of majority and opposition, to recognise and condemn this genocide committed by ISIS. That is very important because, as the Jezidi community itself points out, this gives the Jezidis their dignity back. That's what they asked us to do. I would therefore like to express my thanks to the initiators, Mr Dallemagne and Mr Metsu. We have had several debates here in this House on crimes against humanity, acts of genocide and serious risk of genocide. I'm afraid this won't be the last time. For the Group of the European People's Party, it remains an important element that this is examined by an independent body and subsequently confirmed by an international court. However, ladies and gentlemen, let us be honest, in some cases this is not possible or the legal means are working slowly. Then Parliament cannot avoid its political responsibility. The definition of genocide, as set out in the 1948 United Nations Convention, refers to activities which aim to destroy all or part of a national, ethnic, racial or religious group by killing the members of the group, causing serious physical damage or mental injuries, systematically undermining the conditions of life, imposing measures of birth control, forcing children to be transferred from one group to another. In fact, I was particularly struck by Mrs Nadia Murad's statement at the hearing that ISIS used that definition as a manual. It described in very detail how each point of that definition was applied by IS. Thousands of men and boys were separated from the women and children, driven together and killed. 18 mass graves were discovered around Sinjar. Women and girls were kidnapped, raped and sold as sex slaves on the market, with a price on their heads, just like cattle, to dehumanize them. Rape was used as a weapon of war. Children were kidnapped, brainwashed with IS ideology and deployed as suicide bombers. All these actions wanted to achieve one goal: the systematic planned eradication of the Jezidi community. There is no discussion at all, it is true that we are talking about genocide. The colleagues have already said it. Several reports have documented the violence. The latest UN report, dated 10 May, an independent body, leaves no nuance and leaves no reason to doubt, here is genocide. Of course, Parliament is taking the next step. We call on the Government to work actively with the United Nations for a UN Security Council resolution to refer the crimes to the International Criminal Court or to set up an ad hoc tribunal or hybrid tribunal to try the crimes, so that, after recognition and conviction, there will also be a punishment for the perpetrators of the atrocities. We also ask the government to encourage and support efforts to identify and prosecute any Belgian perpetrators of crimes against the Jezidi community. Belgium also has a responsibility, as more than 500 Belgian citizens have moved to Syria and Iraq to join IS. That's not an easy assignment. Journalist Rudi Vranckx told in the hearings that he had visited the warriors and they claimed that everyone at the front was cook or nurse. There are certainly a lot of images that we learned from the hearing with Nadia Murad - which make it possible to build up the burden of proof. The UN database can also help identify and try the perpetrators. We also call for an extra effort from our government to see how the more than 2,500 kidnapped Jezidi women who are now prisoners of sex slaves can be liberated. The hearings also showed that there is a great need for psychological support, especially for the children who have been ripped away from their families to be re-educated in IS doctrine. Some children have lost their mother tongue or are so badly brainwashed that they no longer want to give up their warrior name and no longer want to return. Jezidi women had children from rape, so they were not accepted into their community and had to make a choice between their children and their community. Building houses is obviously needed, but it is much more necessary to give these women and children a perspective and a future, to rehabilitate the brainwashed children and to provide them with the mental recovery they need. UNITAD has already drawn up a number of programmes for this purpose. We also ask that Belgium should be able to contribute to specific humanitarian aid for groups who had to undergo sexual violence, slavery or other inhuman and degrading treatment. A few weeks ago, Minister Kitir explained how they have increased the budgets for development cooperation, including for the flexible funds of the UN and the ICRC, and pointed out that OCHA is active in Iraq with a humanitarian fund. Finally, to Lamia and Nadia, but also to the thousands of others, we in the Belgian Parliament hope to give back the dignity that every human being deserves. We will continue to fight for a decent life and do all we can to ensure that justice is done.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip119x.u45	I would also like to say a few words about this important text, without being lengthy. The work of our committee has been of very high quality and high quality. I believe that none of the political groups that took part in this work has squandered this work. Each colleague has invested in the documentation and understanding of this terrible crime against the Yezidis. I would really like to thank all colleagues from the bottom of my heart. This text has been enriched and is now co-signed by ten political groups. I would particularly like to thank the chairman of our committee, Els Van Hoof, for it is also thanks to her that we are in a position to adopt this resolution before the commemoration of the genocide that will take place on 3 August. I thank her for organizing the work in order to achieve this result quickly. It is a terrible crime that has been committed against a small community around the world. We're talking about less than a million people. This community, which I did not know, is now scattered between the Middle East and Europe. She is discreet and has often been harassed in history. Essential to our humanity, like all human communities, it has its roots in the dawn of time. I believe that none of the members of our committee will forget the terrifying testimony of Mrs Bachar and Mrs Murad, the survivors who once again wanted to speak to us about their ordeal. I would like to express my gratitude for their courage and witness. They are leading this fight for the recognition of the Yezidis genocide in every corner of the planet. It's a challenging and admirable fight for them. I know that they found comfort in the way we listened to them, in which we took into account their screams and their hopes. This resolution, which I drafted with my colleague Koen Metsu - I thank him very much - is indeed a promise made to Baba Sheick, the spiritual leader of the Yezidis, whom we met last December near Dohuk, Iraqi Kurdistan. He has already sent us a message of gratitude. This resolution also takes its source, more personally longer ago, in a meeting I made almost seven years ago in northern Iraq. It was in August 2014. We were in the middle of an Islamic state offensive. Hundreds of thousands of refugees flocked to Iraqi Kurdistan, chased by the hordes of Daesh. They found refuge in the towns and camps protected by the Peshmergas. On the Zakho side, near the three borders between Turkey, Syria and Iraq, there were large camps in Yezidis. I went there, curious to discover these populations that I didn't know existed. And in the camp administrator's steel container, there were three women sitting against each other on an iron bench. They looked empty. I approached and we started talking. For the first time, they told me, they told me about the death of their loved ones, sexual slavery, the payment of ransoms to try to recover their sisters and daughters, barbarism. I'll never forget it. As many of us have said, the word genocide is a word that must be used with caution, so particular is this crime, so much it engages the community, so important it is to reserve it for what it is: the deliberate will to destroy a human group, to make it disappear from the surface of the earth. As I said in committee, this is the first time, in almost twenty years of activity as a member of the Committee on External Relations, that I propose to call a mass crime a crime of genocide. But the evidence today is overwhelming, coming from specialized organizations, UN investigations, the Yezidi community itself, the Iraqi governments and Iraqi Kurdistan. And the experts we have called for further clarification have all been unanimous in confirming this crime among the crimes. I would just like to mention briefly Professor d'Argent, a great specialist in this field. He spoke of the crimes listed in the 1948 Genocide Convention and said: "There is no doubt that such acts were committed against the Yezidis. In particular, it is fully established that there have been mass murders, serious attacks on physical or mental integrity, transfers of children. One can still think of the destruction of livestock and crops, the mining of fields, all of which can be considered to be aimed at subjecting the group to conditions of existence leading to its destruction." Our resolution sends a firm and clear message. It is, I think, unprecedented in many respects, although of course our country has recognized other genocides and has prosecuted perpetrators. Our Parliament solemnly recognizes and condemns this crime of genocide against the Yezidis. He asked the government to do the same. The text we are going to vote on also calls for these crimes to be prosecuted and punished. In this regard, I welcome the work undertaken by the Belgian justice system to collect evidence and investigate cases concerning Belgian terrorists who have been identified by Yezidi families as part of their torturers. I firmly believe that doing justice in Belgium for crimes committed by Belgians will have a moral, social and educational value essential for the future. It will also be a tremendous relief for the thousands of Yézidis we welcome in our territory, especially in the province of Liège. Our resolution also calls on the Belgian Government to participate in the efforts that will enable the Yezidis to survive this great crime, we hope, on their way home, living side by side with the other Iraqi communities in a spirit of reconciliation, being protected there, building their village, receiving specific humanitarian aid especially for women and children who have suffered deep trauma. We must also (and many of you have also said so) tear out in the hands of Daesh the women and children who are held there and who continue to suffer the worst violence. Finally, and this is an important addition proposed by the majority parties, our resolution calls on the government, in cooperation with UNHCR and the EU, to participate in a resettlement operation in Europe for Yezidi women wishing to be reunited with their children who have been raped in detention. I have no doubt that our Government will be committed to realizing all the elements contained in this resolution. I know that he is at our side in this unanimous effort. I would also like to bear in mind that, in addition to the genocide of the Yezidis, the Islamic State Group has committed other crimes against Muslims, be they Arabs, Kurds, Shiites or Sunnis, as well as against Christians, Syriacs, Chaldeans, Assyrians and homosexuals. All these tragedies must not be forgotten. I would like to conclude by thanking once again all those who have worked to adopt this strong text. They will recognize themselves (I mentioned them in our committee discussions) with a special mention to the associations, in particular that of Father Desbois, and for the journalists who worked on the gathering of evidence and who covered these terrible events as well as to the government of Iraqi Kurdistan who has always facilitated my work as a parliamentarian on the spot. My last words will be those of Nadia Murad, Nobel Peace Prize winner, who sent me a friendly letter after his hearing in the Chamber on June 15. "It was very meaningful to me and the Yezidi community to see the Belgian Parliament discuss the gravity of ISI's actions and the need for justice. Belgium recognizing the crimes against us will give Yezidi hope and step towards concrete justice. I egally await a successful vote to pass this resolution." I know, ladies and gentlemen, that we are not going to disappoint her. [[Supported applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip119x.u46	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this is an important text which I was pleased to be able to join with colleagues from many other parties, on the initiative of MM. Dallemagne and Metsu – who must be thanked for having welcomed this little-known subject between our walls. The Middle East is still unstable and under pressure, benefiting organized terrorist groups that tyranny the poorest. This is the unfortunate case of the Yezidis in Iraq and Syria. The leader of the United Nations investigative team has been very clear: the attacks against the Yezidis are indeed genocide. The UNITAD Special Adviser concluded that these attacks constituted war crimes such as murder, torture, cruel treatment and violations of human dignity. Unfortunately, these horrific acts are not recent. A Human Rights Watch report of September 2019 already reported serious violations of the rights of Yezidi women and girls, denouncing an organized system of rape, sexual slavery and forced marriage by the Islamic State. On 30 July 2020, Amnesty International also denounced the ill-treatment of Yezidi children by members of the Islamic State. Almost 2,000 children were abducted, tortured, forced to fight and raped. Once released, their plight continues, as they find themselves destitute and need emergency assistance from the Iraqi authorities and the international community. Sair's testimony is as edifying as it is difficult to hear. Recruited at the age of fifteen, he was forced to fight for not being killed. He also explains that he did not receive support from his relatives and authorities once he returned from captivity. This uninsulated case shows with horror the barbarity of the functioning of the Islamic State and the lack of assistance to its victims. This motion for a resolution enables our Parliament to show its determination that any war crime, any violation of human dignity and human rights should be denounced and condemned. Ladies and gentlemen, as representatives of a democratic country that defends the rule of law, we cannot allow such barbarism to pass. The demands made in this resolution allow the government to encourage the conviction of those responsible, as well as reparation to the victims. First, at the international level, we call on the government to encourage all forms of condemnation in international and national forums. Reminding the Iraqi government to take part in the Statute of the International Criminal Court is a means of ensuring that such crimes will be tried in the future. If Iraq has not yet ratified the Statute of the Court, the UN Security Council can still declare the Court competent for crimes committed on its territory. The Security Council may also establish an ad hoc tribunal to try such crimes. We call on the government to support such a resolution for its adoption. Secondly, the motion for a resolution has the advantage of also taking into account the testimony of the victims. Indeed, while their lives are sometimes no longer in danger, their path to reconstruction is only beginning. We must therefore help them on this sometimes very difficult journey for their loved ones. Our government must be able to encourage Iraq to implement the Iraqi legislation of 1 March, Yazidi Survivors Law. If this law is to be implemented, Belgium must be able to assist any humanitarian action that will enable victims to rebuild themselves. It is for this reason that we call for specific humanitarian assistance for groups that have suffered sexual violence, slavery or other inhuman and degrading treatment. Ladies and gentlemen, my group is obviously participating in and supporting this motion for a resolution, which is undoubtedly the right solution in the message we can give for the defence of the oppressed people of the Middle East. I am also pleased to note that all parties voted in favour in committee. The message of unanimity that we will send tomorrow will only be stronger.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip119x.u47	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled. The vote on the proposal will take place at a later stage. The vote on the proposal will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip119x.u48	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Leen Dierick, Nawal Farih.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip119x.u49	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs are Mr. Van Lommel and Mrs Jadin, they refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip119x.u50	Madam President, I would like to make an exceptional reference to the written report. On behalf of my group, I would particularly like to thank the authors for the fact that the content of this bill is touching on a daily reality. That reality is that many companies get into trouble because of the payment behaviour of their professional customers. Of course, the fact that payment deadlines can no longer be agreed for more than 60 days is a good thing. The period during which the verification of the goods and the like is carried out will also be an integral part of that invoice period. I have already mentioned it in committee, ladies and gentlemen. Many companies, often large companies, want to get free cash credit on the hood of their suppliers. Often these suppliers are small SMEs, which are actually playing banks to provide the large companies with a capital buffer. Those big companies do this by stretching the payment periods, up to 30 days, up to 60 days, up to 90 days. There are even SMEs that have to be paid 120 days. That's not a rarity anymore. We see that it always goes on and on and that these SMEs follow good and ultimately do not dare to say anything. Another problem we see, for example, in the construction sector, where there is frequent work with claims states. When deliveries take place, one waits until the end of the month to prepare a draft, and then a statement of claims. That statement of claim will then remain on the contractor's office for weeks, after which the invoice will be made, and then another 60 days or sometimes even 90 days will be enforced. The government is also a big culprit in the whole story. After all, I have seen companies go bankrupt in the past because governments do not fulfil their payment obligations. We notice that companies have to beg Jehovah's witnesses to the public services to get the invoices paid anyway. This sometimes leads to sad scenes that should not take place. Colleagues, I believe that the legislative proposal will increase the enforceability of complying with commitments within 60 days. However, I wonder whether the companies and SMEs concerned will dare to stand on their feet in practice. Will they not, in some cases, feel that they are standing against the wall and ultimately, in practice, cover longer payment periods with the cloak of love, even though these deadlines are not laid down on paper? However, to what extent will they knock the fist on the table in order to enforce it when there is interest and delay? I have just mentioned that it is very often about SMEs. Large companies and large customers take advantage of these SMEs. Will an SME dare to risk the customer relationship at that time? Another thing that could perhaps be a downside of the coin is that in some cases more will be done with sourcing from abroad, where perhaps a longer payment period may apply. That's a possible pitfall. It is also not insignificant what I have just indicated, namely that the government sets a good example and admits colour. After all, we have certainly had a debate before the federal section of the committee on the federal government which has to fulfil its payment obligations. That debate will continue in the future. However, this should be strengthened so that it sets an example in the end and there may also be more butter-by-fish payments. Apart from this bill, the corona crisis has also weakened the financial situation of many companies and has run out of money. That is what I mentioned in committee. Now that the economy is reviving, we see as the first solution the proposal that invoices will be paid later. However, this will cause a chain reaction. As politicians, I think it is our job to protect those companies too and to ensure that this chain reaction is prevented. I have tabled an amendment to that effect in committee. The original legislative proposal provided for an immediate entry into force of this new legislation six months after its publication. I understand, however, that there is still some work to be done, that the ministers need time to do so, and so on, but I believe that it should be possible to shorten that period. I like efficiency and we can switch faster, especially in the current times. That also means that the pressure can be quite high. A little ambition would not be out of place in this House. In the past, for example with regard to the basic banking service for companies, we had also taken a long time to develop KBs and eventually failed to do so. The pressure and ambition should therefore be a little higher. Companies really need financial resources in these times. That is why we have again tabled an amendment which we will put to the vote tomorrow. Of course, we will support this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip119x.u51	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in 2018, a study by Graydon showed that, in the third and fourth quarters of 2018, only 67 per cent and 69 per cent of all invoices respectively were paid within the agreed deadlines. Graydon also points out that more than one in ten bills are paid more than 90 days late and some are never paid. In view of these figures, it is undeniable that late payments have a considerable impact on the economy and, in particular, on SMEs suffering from these cascading effects. When they are late in payment, they, in turn, often have to defer payment of their invoices, which leads to significant financial difficulties. These late payments are also detrimental to the competitiveness of SMEs and their profitability, since the creditor must obtain external financing because of these late payments. It should be noted that a first legislative response has already been provided by the Act of 28 May 2019 which limits the payment period granted to large companies vis-à-vis SMEs to a maximum of 60 days, and the monitoring and verification period to a maximum of 30 days. The proposed legislation put forward by CD&V colleagues is intended to set stricter payment deadlines for all companies, regardless of their size and position in the contract. The extension of the maximum payment period of 60 days to relations between all companies is a necessary option to ensure an effective acceleration of payment periods for the benefit of all companies in our country. The procedure for accepting or verifying goods or services will no longer serve as a pretext for extending the time limit. This procedure will now have to be an integral part of the payment period. It is also essential that the creditor has all the documents and information necessary to draw up the invoice at the latest at the time of delivery or performance of the service. This is necessary in order to keep payment deadlines within the limits set, but also in order to effectively allow the supplier to send the invoice on time. As the Union des Classes Moyennes (UCM) points out in the opinion given to the Committee on the Economy, this text has several advantages. First of all, it supports economic activity, in particular of the self-employed and SMEs. Secondly, it helps to preserve the fluidity and liquidity of SMEs. It also clarifies and simplifies the legal framework. Finally, it provides a better framework for business relations and balances power relations. In conclusion, the MR Group will of course support this bill, which is very positive for SMEs.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip119x.u52	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it has already been outlined that many SMEs are in financial difficulties due to the corona crisis. If they are then faced with invoices that are late or not paid or with invoices with a very long payment period, this obviously causes additional concerns. This has often been a problem before the crisis, but now the financial buffer has disappeared and there is no margin to cover those invoices. It is therefore impossible for companies to have to wait a very long time for their money after the delivery of their goods or services. It's just to support them, especially in these times, that CD&V has put the present bill on the agenda. The legislative proposal stipulates that companies may no longer agree on a payment period of up to 60 days..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That's very clear to everyone. This will also remove the pressure that some large companies put on small SMEs to include longer payment periods in the contract. By legally anchoring that now, we are giving small businesses more guidance. In addition, we close a number of loopholes to avoid the payment period. In this way we make the verification period including the payment period. That way we can close the back doors. The long payment period is a long-standing problem, and with this proposal we are now taking a step forward and certainly giving the small businesses a legal basis. The loopholes are also closed, as I said, which is also a step forward. Some colleagues have already said that the government should set a good example. However, the figures show that the public authorities on different levels are not too narrow in their commitments. I therefore call on the various authorities to respect the legal deadlines. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you all for the very constructive attitude, cooperation and support for the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip119x.u53	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip119x.u54	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1036/11) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1036/11) The bill has 5 articles. The bill has 5 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip119x.u55	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment and the reserved article as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment that has been tabled, the article that has been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip119x.u56	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip119x.u57	Madam Chair, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip119x.u58	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip119x.u59	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1965/3) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1965/3) The bill has 8 articles. The draft law contains 8 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip119x.u60	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip119x.u61	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs, Mrs de Laveleye and Mr Cogolati, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip119x.u62	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this subject is, of course, primarily about the problems involved in transposing the third energy package. At the time, there was extensive warning of problems of compliance with the directives. That project was then prepared by Minister Magnette and subsequently taken over by Secretary of State Wathelet. At that time, a number of recommendations were not heard. This was one of the few times that we have been able to hear someone directly from the European Commission when they are being transposed to see whether the transposition was indeed in conformity. There was a comprehensive warning, indicating that there were some problems with it, in particular with regard to the ownership of the networks. The Minister then assumed that it was not necessary for the owner of the networks to be the transmission system operator in all cases. So many years later we have now run into a wall, at least against an arrest. That has pointed out to us that the Minister at the time was not right and that a correction must now be made to that effect. At the same time, there has been some discussion in committee about whether we are doing better with this correction than we did in 2011-2012. In fact, as it has been formulated at present, it is still not necessary for the transmission network to have effective ownership of that network. The Minister has made a proposal there that leaves open whether it is possible to work with property or property, whatever that means in this case. The current proposals do not meet the requirements of the judgment. In part, this is a well-known non-sense, as the Minister is convinced that this will pass without any difficulty. It was argued in committee that the fact that there is no objection to the certification of Elia as a transmission system operator is the best proof that the European Commission no longer has any objections in this respect. However, the judgment states literally that the judgment cannot be cited in order to determine whether or not the transposition took place correctly, because, of course, it is not the subject of that decision. Such certification does not rule on the correct or incorrect transposition of the Directive. However, the Minister used that argument in committee at a time when it was clear to everyone, at least everyone who read the judgment, that this could not be put forward as an argument. We are therefore still a little hungry in this area. It raises the question of whether it will be correct by now. No one has any interest in this ending again in a court of law. It took us about ten years to conclude that the transposition was not correct. I wonder if our successors will have the same discussion in ten years' time. I am quite prepared to take part in this discussion, which is particularly interesting, but I am particularly concerned about legal certainty. Another question is what its effect is. The ownership structure has just been imposed by the European Commission and the Directive because it is important that third parties cannot influence transmission networks. In this way, no one can have an interest in managing the transmission networks differently than when they are owning them. Those who are fully owned are, of course, motivated and encouraged to invest correctly in that network, as can be seen in the judgment. That is, of course, in the interest of all users of that network. An energy market can only be organised in a good way provided that it is there and that everyone can use it equally and can always count on it. It would not be a good thing for third parties to be able to influence this. At the same time, this draft is used to examine the possibility of extending the powers of the CREG in the field of competition. This is done in the legislation, when we know that in the past the necessary royal decisions were used to regulate a good relationship between the Competition Authority and the CREG. This good relationship exists today, but does not take into account the adaptation of the rules of the game or the division between the ex post measures and the ex ante measures. A new relationship is now being created, and it is not clear to me whether this has been fully discussed with the Competition Authority. The Competition Authority is taking both ex post and ex ante measures today, and this draft law is now seeking a different balance. Finally, this draft law also addresses the issue of the simplification of energy bills. The necessary steps need to be taken, but I have expressed my concern about the disappearance of electronic contracts, albeit in the implementation of European legislation. Today, a number of citizens are calling for this because they know that it will allow them to get a lower energy price. One can conclude a contract and agree to merely electronic invoicing. A number of people think that is fine and pay a lower rate today in return for not having to send paper invoices anymore. Digitisation is something that everyone is working on, but today, although under the influence of Europe, we seem to be taking a step backwards. If everyone in that kind of contract can demand a paper invoice, you know what will happen there tomorrow. Those electronic contracts will no longer be offered and the price will go up for those people. I'm very concerned about that. I hope, of course, that the Minister will take sufficient measures to compensate for additional costs by simplifying the energy bill. If the administrative obligations for energy suppliers are to be simplified so that these costs can be saved, this can also be an added value for those who pay the invoices. Hopefully it will go far enough to fully compensate for the loss of electronic contracts. Perhaps the Minister can tell us more about how that will take shape. After all, I understand that we had to deal with the text urgently today, because it was precisely in order to speed things up. We are therefore particularly interested in the way in which this will happen. We in Parliament are always prepared to discuss this and wonder whether the Minister will soon come to Parliament with a text. Sometimes we are faced with problems in this area. I would like to give an example of the texts on CRM and subsidies for gas plants, which were to be in Parliament at the end of last year, but which we do not yet have at our disposal seven months later. I can only hope that this can be done more quickly in the future and that there will be a solid package of late proposals here, among other things, when we will open the doors again in September after the last plenary session of the year so that we can continue with this. In conclusion, we will support this draft, but we have serious reservations about the way in which it is being implemented, especially with regard to the ownership structure of the Elianet and its networks, aspects for which we were precisely condemned. We abstained in committee on these points. I hope that the Minister will be firm enough in that regard and that soon she will not have to explain to her successor that the transposition was not quite what she should have been. The warning has been expressed, but frankly, I had also warned Mr Magnette and Mr Wathelet and they did not do anything with it either. The future will tell us whether it was necessary to raise the alarm again.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip119x.u63	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to make an oral report on the second reading, because for the first reading it was enough to refer to the written report. With regard to the second reading which took place yesterday, 13 July, in the Committee on Energy, the general discussion and discussion of the articles took place. We have spoken in the discussion, Mr President. Wollants, Ravyts and Warmoes. The Minister responded to questions and comments. The technical corrections proposed by the Legal Service were approved. The articles were successively adopted. The bill as a whole was passed by thirteen votes with one abstention. The Government requests that the bill be placed on the Orders of the Day for the plenary sitting on Wednesday, July 14, 2021. The committee agreed to an oral report, as I have just done now.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip119x.u64	Would you also like to speak on behalf of your group?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip119x.u65	No.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip119x.u66	Madam Minister, it is a quantitatively robust bill, with many aspects, including the partial transposition of European directives, implementations of European regulations and adaptations of the electricity and gas law to an important judgment of the European Court of Justice at the beginning of December 2020. That judgment found that Belgium did not correctly transpose the third energy package of directives, which dates back to 2009. Certain aspects of this bill are, moreover, very important for consumer protection in a rapidly evolving market. The Court has drawn attention to some aspects of the draft law. Firstly, the undertaking designated as transmission system operator must own the entire network. Secondly, the CREG should have the power to take independent binding decisions to ensure benefits for customers through the promotion of effective competition. This means that the CREG should be given wider powers when it identifies problems of competition and unfair commercial practices or anticompetitive behaviour. Thirdly, the CREG should be able to exercise the powers conferred on it by the Directives without instructions from the Government, including in establishing the conditions for connection and access to national networks, balancing services and conditions of access to cross-border infrastructures. The previous government had amended the law in order to grant the CREG considerable powers to resolve a number of very concrete problems identified on the market, with the CREG making proposals to the government. However, this intermediate step was condemned by the Court because it weakens the powers of the regulator. The CREG is thus granted new important powers which it will be able to exercise independently. We think that is a good thing. In committee, there has been a long legal debate on the difference between ownership and ownership of the transmission system. Mr Wollants has explained it once again in a long and broad way. His arguments were cut short and we have therefore approved his amendments. That was, of course, in vain, since he did not re-subscribe them. With this strengthened powers of the CREG, coordination with the Belgian Competition Authority or BMA is of course also a focus. Today there is a Royal Decree of 2017 governing the cooperation between the CREG and the Competition Authority. The Minister was prepared to examine whether a revision of that royal decree would force himself to do so. Another part of the draft law is the transposition of Article 18 of the EMD Directive. It concerns the information obligations that the supplier must comply with vis-à-vis final customers. The Directive also authorises the King to implement the principles set out in the Article. Madam Minister, we now come to an important issue, namely consumers and the fourth electricity directive. We have thus also reached the point of simplifying the energy bill, on which we adopted a solid resolution less than two months ago. The draft law provides the legal basis for the future Royal Decree on the invoice, which will determine the form of the simplified energy bill. Of course, the royal decree will have to comply with the rules laid down in the fourth electricity package. That is why we are dealing with it here today. We had every sympathy for that, because that invoice is in the consumer's interest. Madam Minister, while we are talking about the fourth electricity directive and you are already turnover through the bill on invoices, we also want to talk about direct participation in the energy market on both an individual and a collective basis, as well as the consumption of self-generated renewable energy. This concerns the concepts of active customer and energy community of citizens. Madam Minister, you may know that the Flemish Government last Friday, 8 July 2021, through a decision laying down the relevant rules, made it possible, among other things, for residents of apartment buildings to share energy from 1 January 2022. From July 2022, energy sharing will also become interesting for citizens, schools, organisations, local authorities and SMEs. These are very specific peer-to-peer sales. For example, intrafamilial sharing is then also possible. From 2023 onwards, energy sharing will be extended to energy communities. We then come close to the wider roll-out of district batteries and common charging posts, one of your great dreams, given the green desiderata on flexibility. Those aren't dreams anymore, by the way. I refer to the pilot project on smart energy networks in the Ghent district of De Nieuwe Dokken, which I believe you have inaugurated. This is where optimal coordination is achieved in terms of consumption, storage and production of renewable energy, thus achieving the ultimate dream of flexibility. At the meeting of the Council of Ministers on 30 April, you completed the first reading of the preliminary draft on the transposition of Article 16 of the Energy Communities Directive. In fact, however, that Article 16 had to be transposed by the end of December last year. In the meantime, in recent weeks, with the persistent statements, including yours, about the energy communities and wind energy cooperatives, it seemed as if all this was legal. However, it is still waiting for the second reading. Then it has to go to the Council of State and the Consultative Committee. So unlike Mr Wollants, I think that sometimes you go super fast, faster than the light. When I hear you on the Energy Committee I am very often immersed in a kind of stunning, a natural stunning. I see beautiful scenes for me of self-conscious energy consumers with optimal charging behaviour, amid smart energy networks. They had to make a movie about it, about my intoxication and dreams. Superprogressive, at his Gents. Fortunately, however, I am awakened by legitimate social concerns about energy poverty, from Mr Warmoes, for example. Today is not only 14 July, it has also been a high day for Mrs von der Leyen and Mr Timmermans. They have proposed their Fit for 55 package. We will perhaps be able to go into this more fully later, tonight or tomorrow. However, I fear that these dreams will not be beautiful dreams for a large number of people in this country, but rather evil dreams. Nightmares might be a little exaggerated. We can discuss this tomorrow. Madam Minister, since the draft law before us is essentially about strengthening the CREG and the basis for simplifying the invoice, we will approve it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip119x.u67	Colleagues, I note that there are no other requests for intervention. Minister, would you like to respond?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip119x.u68	Madam President, I would like to thank all the speakers. Let me briefly look at a number of points. Firstly, we discussed property and property in detail in committee. Mr Wollants has said what it is about and what ultimately is the touchstone, in particular control. That is a crucial point. Secondly, with regard to the Belgian Competition Authority (BMA) and the CREG, we are stepping up competition. This does not, of course, prevent the BMA, and since this transposition also the CREG, from still having their respective powers which they can exercise. As far as the invoice is concerned, Mr Wollants, I would like to point out that this is a question of transposing the EMD Directive, which explicitly provides for it. The obligation stems directly from the Directive and must be properly transposed. The cost of making the invoice or the billing information available may not be passed on to the final customer, regardless of its form. Of course, this is not the same as providing a discount on an energy component or another price component, or a flat-rate discount, which a supplier can charge because the supplier would like to encourage a digital agreement. Mr Ravyts, you absolutely have a point when you refer to EMD and flexibility. In committee, I also said that what we are transposing here from the EMD Directive is exactly the legal basis for introducing the simplified invoice, and that, of course, a comprehensive draft for the transposition of the EMD will be submitted to the Chamber. That will happen in the autumn. As Mr Wollants said, we voted on this in committee on 13 July 2021 after a second reading. I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Cogolati, for the oral report. Within the government, we are currently getting along with the KB on the simplified invoice. If the Chamber's plenary can vote on this, we will also be able to get on with that QB and get advice from the Council of State, which will allow us to publish it quickly and we can expect suppliers to speed up their implementation. Ladies and gentlemen, this will enable the government to implement the resolution on the simplified invoice, which was adopted here not so long ago. I take the opportunity to take a little advantage, because my colleague De Bleeker, the Secretary of State responsible for consumer protection, has permanence here today. It's a file we carry together. This is a simplification that consumers have long been asking for, but we also know that it contributes to the fight against energy poverty. That is also one of the recommendations of the King Baudouin Foundation. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for dealing with this today, with an oral report, so that the Chamber can vote on it and we can move on with it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip119x.u69	Madam Secretary, you are right to point out that it is a question of transposition. At the same time, of course, I have tried to give you and Mrs De Bleeker a mandate, to ensure that it remains an overall positive story and that those who take that offer into account today will not suffer at the end of the journey. You must, of course, follow those European rules, but I believe that there are more than enough opportunities to ensure, if we are intelligently simplifying this energy bill, that the benefit of a piece can be returned to all consumers, if we are to act wisely. I am therefore very interested in the way you will deal with it. And I would very much like to take note of the texts in this area. Then we will also be able to judge whether, at least in our view, you have handled that wisely.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip119x.u70	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip119x.u71	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2037/6) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2037/6) The bill has 22 clauses. The draft law has 22 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip119x.u72	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. Consideration of the following item No 2070 has been postponed until tomorrow Thursday 15 July. Secondly, for the following three points, we are awaiting the presence of Minister Vandenbroucke. I therefore propose to examine them a little later in the evening. We would therefore come on the agenda to discuss the House's accounts.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip119x.u73	Madam President, with regard to the postponement of point 9 to tomorrow, is it clear that this will happen at 10 a.m.?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip119x.u74	Perhaps it would be more appropriate to deal with it in the afternoon to allow the services to prepare a written report that is required by the current commission. There have been lengthy discussions on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip119x.u75	I thought it'd be tomorrow at 10:00.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip119x.u76	In this case, there is a calendar incompatibility. The minister will not be able to attend because he must answer oral questions at 10:00 a.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip119x.u77	Madam President, I would suggest that this be discussed in the committee because it is my hope that this can be discussed at 10 a.m. That is why we have scheduled a plenary meeting tomorrow morning, precisely so that we do not have two plenary meetings to extend. Considering, moreover, that we still have a fairly substantial agenda today, I do not know what time we will have finished. The aim was not to have a long-lasting plenary session tomorrow. It is also important that the minister and the commission be able to organize themselves to ensure a presence in committee and answer questions if there are any and then be present here. It is quite compatible; we simply have to organize ourselves. At the Conference of Presidents, we agreed to avoid an extended plenary meeting. An item like this will necessarily generate long debates. This is already the case in the Social Affairs Committee. Or we should not have a plenary meeting tomorrow morning. I don't know what it's for! It should be noted that the political groups have organized themselves according to this agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip119x.u78	Mr Laaouej, I propose that the following four points be put on hold, the time for the committee to conclude and the minister to come back. In that case, there will be a decision by the committee or the plenary, if any.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip119x.u79	The discussion is open. The meeting's open. The rapporteur is Mr Vanbesien who refers to his written report. Mr. Van der Donckt wanted to speak, but he's not here... Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip119x.u80	The vote on the 2020 accounts of the House of Representatives and the financing of political parties will take place at a later date. The vote on the 2020 accounts of the Chamber of Representatives and the funding of the political parties will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip119x.u81	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Michael Freilich, Koen Metsu. The Committee on the Interior, Security, Migration and Administrative Affairs proposes to reject this motion for a resolution. (1413/2) The Committee on Home Affairs, Security, Migration and Administrative Affairs proposes to reject this motion for a resolution. (1413/2) In accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary session will decide on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and possibly the authors. Pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary shall decide on this proposal for rejection after hearing the rapporteur and, where appropriate, the proposers. No one can speak any more. No other speaker may speak. The vote on the proposal to reject this motion for a resolution will take place at a later stage. The vote on the motion to reject this motion for a resolution will take place at a later date. We still have two proposals for rejection.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip119x.u82	Madam President, Mrs Samyn is on the Social Affairs Committee. Can we not postpone this point until tomorrow?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip119x.u83	No problem. The other two rejection proposals will be considered tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip119x.u84	Madam Chair, I did not hear what was proposed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip119x.u85	Mrs Samyn is in the Social Affairs Committee. The agenda has accelerated. This concerns proposals for rejection.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip119x.u86	I don't see why it would be postponed until tomorrow. It's postponed to later today! We have a meeting at the end of the day, and that is what was agreed in the Conference of Presidents. I do not see why what cannot be considered now is postponed until tomorrow. That's not what was agreed. If we have to wait until the work in the Committee on Social Affairs is finished before Members come back, Members will come back. Let us exhaust the agenda of what can be dealt with and the items are postponed to later today. Once the Social Affairs Committee is finished, there is no longer an excuse for not taking up the other items that have been postponed to later, and they are re-examined in order of their inclusion. We are not going to postpone everything until tomorrow, and that is not what was decided in the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip119x.u87	Thank you for your vigilance. We are delaying this point.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip119x.u88	Madam President, Mrs Rohonyi also planned to speak on a rejection proposal. Eight minutes ago, we were still at point 8, so we'll have to give him some time to get there. The way in which the agenda is exhausted in five minutes must not lead to parliamentarians and members who are either in committee or must arrive, having no time for it. Very reasonably, they must be able to come here. I have no objection to this being discussed tonight, and I am not asking for it to be postponed until tomorrow. I ask that on this point we await the arrival of my colleague Mrs Rohonyi, as is the case with ministers or other colleagues who are in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip119x.u89	I therefore propose that the sitting be suspended for half an hour or until the end of the Social Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip119x.u90	Madam President, it seems to me easier to wait for the Social Affairs Committee to come to an end. However, let us agree that, at the end of the Committee on Social Affairs, we are going back to point 10 before going on to the following points. It was agreed that item 9 should be placed on the agenda of tomorrow's sitting at 10 a.m. The presence of Mr Vandenbroucke is not indispensable since a large number of government ministers are involved. The presence of only one is sufficient, as is the presence of Mrs De Bleeker today, whom I thank. I would like the agreements reached at the Conference of Presidents to be respected.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip119x.u91	On the agenda, item 11 is draft No. 2097; which also includes a health care section. At the request of Minister Vandenbroucke, it was explicitly on today's agenda. Will it be discussed today or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip119x.u92	If these files are likely to be examined today because their report is ready, let us discuss them today! I don't see why we'd postpone them. I do not see any objective justification. Let us follow what has been agreed and follow the agenda!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip119x.u93	Madam President, we can indeed deal with a number of points today, but I note that the minister who is to be present is stuck in the Committee on Social Affairs. I propose that we suspend until the committee is finished, because the Minister cannot split into two, but he is certainly prepared to come to the plenary afterwards.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip119x.u94	Madam President, for the record, what bill do we start with when the Social Affairs Committee is finished? After all, we need time to mobilise people.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip119x.u95	Project No 2070 is postponed until tomorrow morning. After the suspension of the sitting, we will resume the agenda with the consideration of drafts Nos. 2094, 2097 and 2014.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip119x.u96	Madam President, I wanted to speak in favour of the postponement of the consideration of Bill 2070 and the resumption of our proceedings, after the adjournment of the sitting, with the consideration of Bill 2094, knowing that we will continue the debate as long as necessary for the order of the day to be exhausted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip119x.u97	Colleagues, we are suspending the session. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Wednesday, July 14, 2021 at 9 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Wednesday 14 July 2021 at 9 p.m.
