ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic385x.u1	Belgium is on its way to half a million long-term sick. Mental health problems are the main cause of long-term illness. 36% of these long-term sick people are no longer able to work for these reasons. I've been in the union for years. In the past, osteoarthritis and back pain were by far in the first place; injuries and mental problems were far below. That percentage raises the question of what is causing this. Last week I spoke with some psychiatrists from the Hospital of East Limburg in Genk. They simply had to stop their applications. Their consultation agenda is fully booked until 11:00 p.m., even midnight, every day. That is simply to deal with the crisis; it is not about new patients or patients who end up in the crisis department. That's where the waiting period runs until months. It's just absurd. It's not a new phenomenon. Since the generation pact, governments have made it increasingly difficult to retire in the past, and the control of unemployment has increased. The previous government made the most of it and was proud of it. One speaks of communicating vessels. Well, the vessel of the long-term sick is seriously overflowing. It was also written in the stars, that is clear. Instead of looking at how to sanction the sick even more, we should consider the way in which work is organized. Prevention is always better than cure. Your policy paper states that you want to prevent permanent influx and long-term disability by supporting employers and employees in more workable work. How do you propose to encourage employers to do so? The note talks about financial incentives that can contribute to the resilience process. Will the financial incentives also come to the companies that ultimately have to offer the workable work? You attach importance to consultation with the social partners. To what extent do you wish to give trade union representation in companies the right to participate and control in the introduction of workable work? The theme of the long-term sick is closely linked to the end-of-life debate. What lines of thought does the government follow to relieve the pressure of the career? I am thinking of a solution for the heavy-duty professions, the SWT and the statutory retirement age.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic385x.u2	Question No 55013467C by Mr Peter Mertens is not applicable.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic385x.u3	Last year, the High Commission of the Medical Council on Invalidity decided to recognise a very large group of 29 000 long-term sick persons right up to their retirement age, without any further checks being carried out. Were you informed in advance of that very unusual operation? What was the main reason for the GRI to make that drastic decision? Is it the responsibility of the GRI to undertake such global actions? The group of long-term sick also includes a category of persons who are at least 50 years old and have been unable to work for at least five years. Is it not the impression that this category is already being written off in advance on the labour market rather than, for example, focusing on more workable work?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic385x.u4	It's a bit of a shame I can't refer to the questions. After all, they are very extensive and specific. The first question concerns the succession of the beneficiary by the RIZIV and the doctors consulted. In the assessment of incapacity for work, there is an important task for both the doctors of the insurance institutions and the RIZIV, in particular the Medical Board on Invalidity and the benefit service. We see a sharp increase in the number of disabled and long-term sick in recent years. Then it does not seem illogical that the increase in the number of sick also has an impact on the thoroughness with which the advisory doctors and the RIZIV can carry out their checks and guidance to work. Does the high number of disabled persons affect the functioning of the GRI and the advisory doctors? Has there been a reduction in the percentage of medical checks carried out or more checks on documents carried out by the medical advisors and the RIZIV? Is there a need for additional resources or staff? To what extent do advisory doctors also carry out checks on persons who are already recognised as disabled? Do you have any data on that? Is that a downward or upward trend? How many checks is the RIZIV still carrying out on persons who are already recognised as disabled? How does that happen? Will you take initiatives on this? The Programme Act of 1 July 2016 introduced the new possibility for the Medical Council on Invalidity, the GRI, to assess the disabled for a second time after at least seven months. During the discussion of the relevant programme law in the Committee on Social Affairs, Work and Pensions, the Minister stated at the time that 7,500 dossiers would be subject to a second assessment by the GRI every year. Is that right? Is that objective of 7,500 second assessments of disabled persons achieved after seven months? How many files are these according to the latest figures? In how many cases is an additional medical check carried out by the doctor of the Benefits Department? Which files are targeted at such a second check? Where's that useful? Are there specific target groups or types of diseases for them? Is the risk of potential abuse charged for this? If so, in what way? My next question deals with policy solutions for the increasing number of long-term sick. Flanders has taken important steps in recent times, but of course it is also waiting for the federal plan. At the time, the Swedish Government had already worked on part of the solution in the form of reintegration pathways. You have already announced that you want to evaluate and recreate them. That is a good thing. In any case, further policy solutions will be needed. All the questioners feel that way. It will be the challenge of the coming decades. The N-VA Group already has a bill pending in the committee on the fit note or the fitness attestation. The existing disease assay could thus be made more activating. Are you considering supporting this proposal and introducing such an adjustment in the disease attestation? In what way do you want to focus on prevention, in addition to the Länder, and on more effective reorientation of long-term ill to other employers? Will you also work on the employment integration jobs, as proposed by the N-VA Group? A full-time contract of employment and a coupled withdrawal allowance in the event of failure may constitute a threshold both for the employer and for the long-term sick worker. The employment integration jobs offer customized employment contracts that could remedy that. The Belgian regulations on posting are very rigid. Temporary work for another employer while maintaining the employment contract could also provide a solution for those who find their current job too burdensome. Would you like to explore that thought trail with us? While in Belgium the employer has to pay a guaranteed wage to his sick employee for only one month, an employer in the Netherlands must continue to pay part of the wage for two years. How do you feel about that? Do you think that an extension of the guaranteed wage could encourage employers, for example, for two months, to step up their efforts towards reintegration, thus avoiding long-term illness? The responsibilities lie here on both sides for clarity. Finally, today's disability benefit is based on the family situation. This can, of course, lead to the disabled being afraid of losing some of their income if they work again. The partner may also fear that by working, he or she will affect the benefit of the disabled partner. Do you think that individualisation of disability benefits can provide a solution?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic385x.u5	Colleagues, I have actually built up my question from a completely different logic, namely from the point of view of public health. I had therefore submitted them to the Committee on Health but it was moved by the secretariat to the Committee on Social Affairs in the context of the general debate here. I understand, Minister, if you cannot answer all my questions here, I will then submit them again to the Committee on Health. As my fellow Members have pointed out, this is a complex problem, but it is always about chronically ill. This means that the increase in their numbers also has certain causes. For me, it is very important to find out what these causes are. They can be genetic, but they are also very often related to lifestyle or mental well-being. After all, 36% of the long-term sick suffer from mental health problems. My input comes mainly from the health aspect of the long-term ill, even though the intertwinedness with everything that is labour market-related is definitely present. My question was more about where we stand today. As part of the policy paper, we were able to discuss the plan concerning the chronically ill and the integrated projects on chronic care. Of course there is also a need for consultation with the Communities, since neither labour market nor health are exclusive powers of the federal level. The intertwinedness between the two is there. I would therefore like to know where you stand today in the light of the plan concerning the chronically ill and the integrated care routes. I don't think they can be decoupled, hence my question. All understanding if you take this aspect less seriously today, I will try to raise the issue in the Committee on Health.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic385x.u6	Redirecting questions is a choice made by the firm. We will see what the minister will say, but we can also talk about it later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic385x.u7	Madam President, Minister, unlike Mr Muylle, I return to the Social Affairs Committee. I will not repeat everything that has been said here by previous speakers. I'll come back to the long-term sick. At the end of last year, the High Commission of the Medical Board for Invalidity has indeed taken an exceptional and one-off decision to exempt three categories for long-term sick persons by 2021. I will not repeat what categories they are talking about. You know that better than anyone. I have four specific questions. Firstly, why were these categories of long-term sick prevented on the basis of these criteria? Secondly, it is a one-off procedure. In other words, these same categories will again be eligible for control in the following year. Is that not contrary to the principle of equality? Thirdly, are the exempt parties informed in writing and informed of the fact that they should not accept automatic recognition and can therefore also contact their doctor to continue the journey? Fourthly, I will come back to policy. Is this one-off procedure sufficient to control the control problem of the counsellors? If not, how will this control problem be brought under control in the near future?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic385x.u8	Madam President, Minister, in the federal government agreement, the government puts the reintegration of long-term sick first. This includes the activation of inactive persons with a view to achieving the rate of effectiveness of 80%, but should, above all, also give people who are long-term ill and still able to work the opportunity to get back to work in a feasible and workable way for them. The movement of progressive work resumption of long-term sick people has been going on for a long time, but unfortunately not yet at cruising speed. However, this is necessary, because the number of people who are long-term disabled is increasing so that we risk crossing the limit of half a million long-term sick people. This is partly due to the fact that more people are entering the labour market than before and also to the fact that they are working longer. Moreover, there is a huge increase, and we have also seen this with regard to corona, burn-outs and mental illness. In the meantime, it has been decided at Flemish level to step up. The Flemish Minister of Work recently presented a vision paper on this subject to the Flemish Government, which aims at an action plan for the reintegration of long-term sick. A number of requests have already been made to the Federal Minister from Flanders. I made this clear in my parliamentary question on 4 February. Among other things, it concerns the faster involvement of the Flemish Employment Service. Since 2009, the RIZIV, the mutualities and the GTB have been working together. A framework agreement was also concluded for this purpose. Mr President, how do you intend to improve coordination between the powers at the level of the Länder and the federal level in order to contribute to a more streamlined re-integration process? In other words, who will do what, because it is an assignment with many partners? Is there any discussion on this between you and colleagues in the Länder? In what way will you respond to Flanders' demand to involve the VDAB more quickly in the activation of long-term sick through a progressive work resumption? What specific adjustments do you want to make in the current regulatory framework on the re-integration of long-term ill? What role will the mutualities play? How do you intend to reactivate the long-term patients involved who are gradually returning to work? In what way will you respond to employers in order to avoid the dismissal of long-term sick and to optimally look for adapted work or possibly another job?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic385x.u9	Madam President, Minister, in 2021 we will complete the cape of half a million long-term sick people in our country. Since 2019 there have been even more long-term benefits than full-time unemployed. We have all read De Standaard, which in early February 2021 made a striking series of testimonies about the problem. In response to the worrying figures and to the series in De Standaard with various testimonies, you noted that much more had to be done with positive incentives rather than negative incentives. I have a simple question with a imaginary not simple answer. How will you do that? The government will focus more on existing reintegration pathways and on timely detection and prevention. However, the series in De Standaard showed that only 260 doctors have to control more than 460,000 long-term patients. The doctors of the sickness funds have been understaffed for years. There is hardly time for control and therefore even less for guidance. In what way will there be room for doctors so that they can focus on detection and prevention? In addition to doctors, regional employment services play a major role in the reintegration of long-term ill into the labour market. For example, there is cooperation between the RIZIV and the VDAB to help people return to the labour market. How's this cooperation going? What is the impact of the corona crisis on the number of guidance pathways? How will you optimise cooperation so that as many people as possible can find their way to it and get back to the labour market? On February 12, 2021, just before the crocus holiday, the core government announced that it would launch a campaign for companies and employees to better identify the risk of burn-out through the burn-out assessment tool. The risk of burning out is essential for the prevention of long-term disease. What is the current state of affairs and timing of the campaign announced just before the krokus holiday? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic385x.u10	Are there other groups that wish to speak?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic385x.u11	Madam President, the questions allow me to propose the strategic objectives of the return-to-work policy for people with health problems. That will probably not satisfy you completely, because I will not go into a number of very specific questions yet, and I will also explain why, but I hope that you will have a better view of the direction I intend to take with the federal government. It is essential, however, that we do so together with those responsible in the regions and the Communities. That requires consultation, and that is one of the reasons why I remain somewhat general on a number of points. We are based on five strategic objectives, for which we have drawn inspiration from advice from, for example, the NAR and other forms of social consultation, the plan for chronically ill 'Integrated care for better health', but also a whole series of conversations conducted by my staff with almost all the key stakeholders, and we are also inspired by a number of good practices that we see. I give you the five strategic objectives. I am aware that they have been formulated in very general terms, but I think it is important that we have these strategic objectives clearly in mind. The first strategic objective is to focus on a return-to-work policy that ensures that a person entitled to benefits is active on the labour market as soon as possible in a job that matches her or his wishes and opportunities. The second strategic objective is to encourage people with health problems but also their employers to commit to a return to work. The third strategic objective is for RIZIV to conclude new cooperation agreements with the regional employment services, including agreements on reporting, monitoring, financing, auditing and evaluation of training and guidance pathways. The fourth strategic objective is to make the process transparent, quick and unambiguous with electrical communication and information sharing. The fifth strategic objective is to strengthen our priority stakeholders, such as doctors and insurance institutions, so that we can ensure that the return-to-work policy runs as well as possible and may even hope to become Europe's leading player in this area. These five strategic objectives have cross-links with all the themes that have been addressed in the questions. I am going to link these objectives with concrete actions, but now I am going to disappoint you a little bit. What these concrete actions will look like is the subject of consultation within the federal system, for example with my colleague, Mr Dermagne, but it is also a matter of consultation with those responsible for policy in the regions. That consultation has begun. This leads to more concreteisation. I do not want to put on the table what I hope to get out of it, because I think it is wrong to do this. I'd like to say this. The very first contacts I have had with Mrs Crevits, for example, show that we will be very much in line here. I read somewhere that there will be an ideological clash between the federal and the Flemish levels. I absolutely do not have that feeling when I read the Flemish action plan that was recently published. I do not see an ideological clash there between how we think about it and that specific Flemish action plan. That does not mean that the concrete alignment is a piece of cake. This requires a great deal of consultation, but I do not see any deep ideological problems arising there. I do not think it will happen with the other regions either, but we do need to implement the consultation process. The starting point is positive. Someone asked what that means. We start from the belief that people do not choose to live on a benefit. Living a benefit, especially if it takes a long time, makes people feel even worse. They then belong to a group with a certain stigma: the inactive, the disabled, the disabled. People don't ask to be housed in a group like that. Perhaps the first conclusion is that such situations must be avoided by focusing on preventing health problems and, of course, on curing them. Prevention is therefore essential. I'd like to refer to cases that are already running. Several projects have already been launched, both in the social partners and in companies, in the regions and in the federal social parastaals, motivated by prevention. I'm also thinking about the NAR pilot project. For example, at the end of last year, given the impact of the covid crisis, I gave extra margin to the pilot project on secondary prevention of burn-out in the banking and hospital sector, which has been running at Fedris since 2019. The knowledge centre of the RIZIV Disability Service also has interesting projects. It is important and good that the insights of all partners that are regularly brought together by the FPS Social Security Office are shared at www.stressburnout.belgie.be, where many insights are already found. The evaluation of burn-out pilot projects will be on the agenda this spring. This should allow us to consider how we can in future focus on supporting employers when it comes to the mental health of workers. As a result of the insights that grow from the corona crisis, there is undoubtedly also scope for broadening these projects. I also think that we should not only work on burn-out, but broader, namely on various stress-related issues. However, if prevention and healing does not go, then we must accept it and listen to the people involved. We must build processes that involve him or her first in drawing the way back to a meaningful activity. This means that people's self-esteem is being honored and that people are being encouraged to discover in themselves what the possibilities are. To this end, a safe context needs to be developed, as well as opportunities to take small and gradual steps towards activity and work. Questions were asked about the support of the people themselves, but also of their employers. In concrete terms, this has been translated into questions about incentives and accountability. Without pre-empting the processes that I wish to draw up in consultation with my colleagues or the adaptation of existing processes, I would like to point out that we want to focus as much as possible on the informal process that starts with the treating doctor, in many cases the general practitioner. Mrs. Van Peel, I know you want to work on a fit note. I await the advice of the experts and the social partners to reach a decision on this. In any case, we want to ensure that a certificate issued by a doctor on incapacity for work also sends out an immediate signal to the person concerned about the impact of the health problem on his functioning. Where there is a need for support, it must be possible to use it quickly and easily. This applies not only to the person himself, but also to his or her employer. After all, it is not the core business of an employer to seek adjustments to make jobs more accessible to people with health problems. The company also needs support for this by providing the right services. That support exists in many forms, but perhaps it is still too unknown. We are convinced that employers who are committed to such accessibility will have access to talent that otherwise remains left. We also believe that employers have an economic interest in this. That must be a motivation in itself. If this is about to happen, the information is available and more and more people are involved in a win-win story, then we can see how we can involve the non-believers in a customized way. Since there were several specific questions about the corona-related decision of the High Committee of the Medical Board on Invalidity not to include a group of people for a re-evaluation, I'm going to go into it. It concerns in particular the questions put by Mrs Van Peel, Mrs Samyn and Mrs Vanpeborgh. We must put these decisions in the right perspective. Indeed, the number of people with health problems is increasing year after year. So there is an increasing pressure on the recording equipment. Turning to a number of elements put on the table by Mrs Van Peel, I would like to mention how this system has been adapted. That's what happened in 2016. The bottom line is that it switched to digital data streams and the RIZIV no longer controls all the files, but switched to a system of samples. Criteria such as age and pathology are taken into account for the determination of the sample. In the event that a different evaluation is carried out between the medical practitioner of the insurance institution and the doctor-inspector of the RIZIV, a consultation between these doctors will first take place. If there is no agreement, there may be physical contact between the person in question and the doctor of the RIZIV. He'll have the last word. The number of studies carried out in this framework has been increasing year after year since 2016. Of course, we cannot continue to sustain an infinite rise with the manpower we now have. Therefore, in the future, the RIZIV will also focus on the automation of some of the controls. To this end, there are now projects that rely on smart algorithms and artificial intelligence. The aim is not to reduce the number of checks, but to make them even more targeted. Because of the pandemic we were also in a very exceptional situation, in which it became very difficult for consulting doctors to see people face-to-face for re-evaluations of disability. We know that the insurance institutions have made full use of teleconsultations, but this has not prevented delays. To answer Mrs Vanpeborgh's questions, among others, I would nevertheless like to give you the priorities that the GRI has had to set. First and foremost, people who have been recognized as unfit for work for less than a year have a greater chance of reintegration, but also because in the transition from primary disability to disability a thorough and careful medical examination is particularly important. Those cases, new arrivals, are therefore given priority. Moreover, in the current corona context, people who have long been unable to work and who are faced with a problem which is likely to be irreversible did not want to be subjected to a re-evaluation of incapacity for work. The group I am talking about was determined on the basis of age, in combination with the duration of incapacity for work. It is therefore a pragmatic attitude, in order to be able to deal with things properly. Is it a question of recognition until retirement age, as has been said here and there? No, absolutely not. It is a decision not to invite a group of people to re-evaluation, namely a group of people suffering from serious health problems which are likely to be irreversible in very many cases. It was very exceptional circumstances that gave rise to this exceptional and one-off intervention. That is what happens behind the scenes, as it were. It has never been said to people who have been recognised as unfit for work that they will be granted an end date of recognition. The message is that a re-evaluation of the situation is always possible and that recognition can therefore be revised after each study. The group that is captured by the one-time corona-action has therefore received no other or additional communication. That does not mean at all that we write off a group of people for a return-to-work policy, as has been concluded here and there. It is true that the counseling doctor, because he or she was not in contact with this target group, is unable to sensitize them to take steps to work, but that does not mean that any question that can be linked to a work resumption, for example a demand for a partial work resumption, training or any other form of guidance to work, will always be dealt with for these people as well. That is a concern that Mrs Vanpeborgh had in particular. Finally, we are aware that the bottleneck that emerged from the advisory doctors is actually a structural problem and that we must therefore also go to structural solutions. An advisory doctor not only has too large a group of patients, but what he or she should do for those patients is also far too wide. That's why we want to strengthen the counseling doctors. The development of multidisciplinary teams is the first step. A framework has been established for the composition of the teams and their assignments, and that is to say that in the short term we can proceed with the further roll-out of this multidisciplinarity, which everyone agrees should be done. I also note with my colleagues in the regions that we all want to move in this direction, so we need to be able to roll that out in a relatively short time. We would like to add one more element to the teams. We want to add the role of reintegration coordinator. The coalition agreement refers to disability managers, and I am so not in favour of too much English in our Dutch, but it may not be the best terminology, to be honest. We want to add these contact persons reintegration to the teams of the sickness funds. They really take control of the integration dossier and are the bridge figure between all partners, such as the treating doctors, the occupational doctors and the agencies responsible for the concrete services in the regions, such as the VDAB and partners in Flanders, Actiris and partners in Brussels, and the Forem and AVIQ and their partners in Wallonia. I have therefore given a general answer. I can imagine that you are still hungry on a number of points. However, I would also like to give some room for discussion with my colleagues in the federal government and, above all, with the regional governments, before taking very precise positions on a number of questions. I would like to say that my ambition in this area is high. I think that the social problem is extremely important and, as De Standaard stressed, it is also a growing problem. I have been cautious in my statements about this, from the general motto that I prefer to be radical in the implementation of cautious plans and cautious ambitions rather than half-hearted in the implementation of radically announced plans, whatever motto I use in this matter. However, I think this is a very important point in my agenda, which I really want to address ambitiously.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic385x.u12	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed explanation. I'll sum up briefly. You indicated that prevention is essential. I agree. That is why we must also look at the other side of the coin. You say that companies will commit themselves to workable work because this can be economically interesting for them. I come from the trade union world, and if there's anything positive that I learned from Ford's management, it's that people said that a near-work accident is also a work accident and that it's a matter of luck. I remembered that. When, as a unionman, I saw the prolonged outburst due to stress, burn-out and depression spectacularly go up, I bounced the ball back to Ford's board and said we'd better focus on prevention so it wouldn't come to that with those people. We had the advantage of having strong delegations, but a lot of companies don't have them. We urgently need to look at how to get companies to focus on prevention and workable work. Given my practical experience, I think we should work best with the trade union representatives, who know the company best, and with the CPWB coaches. Where we can't, we need to think about other options. There is another very important aspect that I would like to give you. In Germany, companies are obliged by the government to make a certain percentage of their jobs available to Schwerbehinderen. So we don't invent the hot water, because this has been happening in Germany for over 30 years. We must cross the border and see how they deal with it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic385x.u13	Minister, as far as recording equipment is concerned, there is certainly a time of covid understanding for increasing pressure. You will make additional resources available, and that is a good thing. As far as the GRI's decision on the category of over 50s who have been unable to work for five years or more is concerned, we can still speak of an active generation, since it is about 50s. This gives the impression that this category is no longer likely to succeed in the labour market. In many cases, it will indeed be extremely difficult to regulate the return to the labour market and to seek adapted and workable work, but at the very least efforts should be made to reintegrate these people and to actively participate in the labour market. In your reply, you proposed five strategic objectives, linked to concrete action. It is a good thing that this is on the table as a matter of priority and that you consult both the federal and the Flemish colleagues, as well as the colleagues from the Länder. As far as re-integration is concerned, it seems to me that at the moment there are hardly any financial resources available for it. There is an urgent need to strengthen the reintegration of long-term patients. I hope that in the short term you will be able to propose initiatives to this end and to mobilise funds.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic385x.u14	Minister, you yourself indicated that there would be no concrete response to many issues. Then it is a waste of time to say that you have not responded to many things in concrete terms. I have to say, I liked your first sentences, in which you talked about back-to-work policy. I think that is a well-liked term, which will go hand in hand with the Communities, not least. If there is any intellectual honesty, everyone has to admit that it would be much better for this whole package to come into the hands of the Communities so that a full policy can be pursued. That remains our opinion. Anyway, today is what it is and we need to get to work on it. You used five sentences in your answer. You will understand that they raise questions above all. You already indicate a certain direction, but not very much. There are some concerns about these questions as well. In your fifth sentence, you are talking about strengthening insurance institutions. This makes you even more specific at the end of your explanation. I ask myself some serious questions about that. You say you want to be a leader in Europe. Right now, we're the exact opposite. So there is some work to be done, in that regard. I'm afraid you're gonna have to deal with some sacred cottages after all. That is always a very difficult thing to do at the federal level. We know that, too. I'm talking, among other things, about the counseling doctors. Until today, they are in the VIs and the health insurance funds. They are controlled separately and in a different way. In fact, they're between hammer and anvil. After all, it is not the absolute will of all sickness funds to act in a particular direction. On the contrary, according to the parameters that exist today for payments, it is even more profitable for them if there are more people with benefits. That's like pliers on a pig. Advising doctors have been complaining about this for a long time. Now I hear that with the multidisciplinary teams you want to add someone under the VIs, especially a reintegration manager. Let me say I don't follow that. We have had a resolution for a long time to see whether we are not better able to bring these doctors together, apart from the sickness funds, so that government guidance can be done directly. It is in line with a government that prefers not to give too much direction on all these points and leaves much to the social partners. You've used that term a lot. I dare to question whether this is the best way to get a start on this. We have a lot of proposals to make. Soon we will hold hearings with this committee. I hope that we can speak a little more concretely about that. In the end, this is about accountability from all sides, from both employers and doctors as well as from employees and, as long as they are still between them, also from health insurance funds. This requires the different sides of the story and, above all, buttons that are finally cut through. You do not give me much to go into, and I will do so at another time, Minister. You knew, of course, that I would say that this is very vague, when it is one of the biggest problems we face.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic385x.u15	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Thank you for the many initiatives that are taking place today. Three brief recommendations that I would like to make in the debate, which we are certainly still discussing. We have arrived at the moment when we need to get away from the phase of pilot projects of all kinds. I have been able to follow a lot of these projects over the past year, such as the burn-out projects. We're waiting for the evaluation, but my first feeling was that these were interesting inks. Very often this was in the sphere of human resources, business circles, a weekly meeting with colleagues and so on. This can certainly all contribute to mental well-being in the workplace, but we will need more. I think we need to get rid of thresholds and think a lot more out of the box. After all, there are many of these thresholds today. Furthermore, it cannot be the intention to increase the complexity and administrative burden of structures. In the last year, I have made a strong internal evaluation of the reintegration pathways. I have noted that it is too easy to stay away from these routes, not everyone who was eligible for them also made use of them. A lot of times people got out, too. Thresholds may therefore be too high, but on the other hand certain issues may also be too non-binding. That needs to be looked at more closely. More out of the box should also be thought. We know Back to work, a program with progressive work resumption for cancer patients. As Minister of Health, you know this works. These people have periods in which they can work a lot while in periods with treatments and chemotherapy they can do much less. Our systems are not adapted to such flexibility in terms of employment today. That requires a certain mindset and also stimuli. We need that out of the box thinking to reintegrate people into the labour market. So we need to get rid of thresholds and think out of the box. In addition, we need to adapt the rules in order to allow greater flexibility. This discussion will undoubtedly continue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic385x.u16	Minister, you have indicated from the outset that you cannot reveal everything. Of course, I can understand that. But it was a clear statement, I thought, with a number of clear lines of action. You mentioned the five strategic objectives which, of course, need to be further developed on the basis of consultation with colleagues in the regions and the Communities. That goes without saying. Contrary to other colleagues, I do not think that cooperation with the various entities should be seen as something negative. I think it can be very inspiring if one opens up. One can learn from each other's experiences. That's where we can come out stronger. The second element was prevention. That's essential. I fully agree with you on that. Like you, I believe that the social partners have a crucial role to play in this. They are the ones who must effectively ensure that the prevention of illness is dealt with in a different way from both employers and employees. If prevention does not work, as you indicated in your third approach, then we need to focus on incentives and accountability. That's very smooth for me. I think that will be one of the biggest challenges. How can we put this into practice? I hope that this House will certainly be able to discuss it. Here too, I believe there are ideas that can provide input for your cabinet. As far as the GRI is concerned, thank you for your answers. Those were very nuanced and enlightening answers. The appointment of a disability manager, the reintegration manager with a beautiful Dutch word, is definitely worth considering. Such a position is still lacking and we are already seeing it in other countries. So I am hopeful in that respect and look forward to the follow-up.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic385x.u17	Minister, you have made a clear statement on the strategic objectives that will be used as a basis for drawing up an action plan. I look forward very much to seeing how that will be handled. We must recognise that it is extremely important to start a training course very quickly, because the longer people are ill and still have the opportunity to work, the more difficult it is to get back to work. I think it is very positive that there are discussions with many partners, especially the Länder, who are currently working very hard on notes and action plans. It would only be positive if they could be coordinated. With regard to the workers, we are also very often in a negative spiral now, so we really need to work on positivity and strongly stress what people can do and not what they can't do anymore. This is extremely important and by accompanying it, people often discover talents that can be interesting for another employer. It is therefore necessary to work for these employers to lower their thresholds. That is a very big challenge. It has just been said that it is very important to work on prevention. It is important to ensure that people do not end up in a long-term illness. I'm talking about burnouts and mental problems. An acute detection in the workplace is very important to prevent people from getting into such a situation. Of course, all actions must be carried out with respect for the nature of the disease faced by people, because we often lose sight of it. The reintegration of long-term sick will be a huge challenge, but you will certainly find a partner in us to work with.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic385x.u18	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You say that your ambition is very high, and I think that high ambition is also your duty, as we face a huge challenge, which is not new. I'd like to hear some of your statements. That is how you talked about the use of prevention. Of course, it is most important that we avoid so many long-term sick people, especially when it comes to burn-out and stress-related issues, but also physical issues, such as back complaints. Your commitment to the general practitioner also seems to me right to be the first gateway to improvement and early prevention. Some of my colleagues are in favour of thinking out of the box, which is also true. The general practitioners are also very often on the lips of the water. In our party programme, we proposed to abolish the short-term illness note so that the general practitioners have more space, for example to work on the fit notes. After all, we cannot fill the basket of general practitioners without looking at what things might be possible to get out of it. For a simple flu or a simple cold, employees need a sick note. In the Netherlands, to which some colleagues refer, such a method does not apply. I therefore believe that we should look at how we can lighten the basket of general practitioners. That way we can also make their work more interesting. I'll give that thought as an interesting consideration. I think it is also very important to bet on a healthy workplace. Minister, you put it nicely: first inform and raise awareness so that people know which tools are available. That seems like a smart approach to me. Then the non-believers get involved. That's a final piece where we're going to have to end up. If everything is on track, we will also have to look at response mechanisms. I heard Mrs Van Peel say something interesting. I am somewhat surprised, but she also wants to look at the Netherlands where it is a good idea to react to certain employers who continue to resist, just because there are so many employers who want to do well. Now all employers pay the same amount for the huge costs that there are at the end of the ride. However, I wish you every success, a great deal of courage, a great deal of consultation and, above all, a great deal of action which, as you yourself said, can be put forward in the coming years.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic385x.u19	No one is asking for the floor, we can close the debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic385x.u20	Minister, hospital staff are eligible for the EUR 985 gross incentive premium. This premium goes not only to the nurses, but also to the persons responsible for the maintenance, logistics and administration in the hospital. Cleaners in hospitals, however, are often employed by cleaning companies, which means they fall out of the boat. However, the cleaning sector is part of the essential sectors that ensure that our society continues to function in times of the corona epidemic. The essence of the cleaners, also called shadow workers, is more than ever in the interest in the fight against the pandemic, with cleaning, hygiene, disinfection and so on. Some workers carry out these tasks where the virus storm rages the hardest, and still in hospitals, retirement homes and so on. Will you discuss this with the trade unions? Will you find a solution for the cleaners and cleaners employed by the external cleaning companies?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic385x.u21	Minister, I have more or less the same question. At the beginning of December, the General Belgian Cleaning Union, the General Centrale of the General Belgian Trade Union and the General Christian Trade Union Food and Services wrote to various federal and regional ministers, including you. The reason for the letter was the publication of the incentive premium, which was, moreover, justified, not only for nurses, but also for the employees responsible for maintenance, logistics and administration in hospitals. In many hospitals, cleaning is outsourced to cleaning companies in full or in part. That staff is deployed side by side, together with the staff of the hospitals, in the fight against the spread of corona. Many workers employed in these professional cleaning companies are therefore not entitled to this incentive premium. In other countries, such as the Netherlands, this premium is apparently granted to the cleaners who are on the payroll of a cleaning company that offers its services by subcontracting to hospitals. What is your position on previous issues? Can you clarify this position so that the social partners can also give clarity to their members, employers and employees concerned? That is particularly important.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic385x.u22	I'm not going to repeat why we awarded that premium, unless very briefly. The hospital staff has made tremendous efforts during the two waves of COOVID-19. In part there is still a lot of stress in the hospitals, because the occupation is still high. That must not be underestimated. This creates workload, stress and often very painful and difficult situations that weigh on all the staff working in this environment. We had to choose a clear definition of the group to which we gave this benefit, on the basis of consultation with all those involved. In the end, we decided to give this premium, which is a kind of recognition of the difficulty and commitment, to the entire hospital staff, including the cleaning staff and other support staff. That's what this means. Any employee on the hospital payroll who works in the hospital at an accounting cost location of the hospital activity between 020 and 899 as it is technically referred to as "the hospital' shall be entitled to the premium, including students, doctors, interim staff, the staff made available to the hospital by another entity. The cost of non-hospital activities such as parking, crèche, cafeteria are not eligible. I realize this is difficult. In concrete terms, people who have worked in a cafeteria will also have felt this stress and experienced difficult periods. The cleaning staff working in the hospitals will of course also have felt what the covid crisis meant, but that is beyond our reach. The hospitals autonomously decide how they organise themselves and whether or not they outsource cleaning activities. So we've decided not to take sub-contracting cleaning staff with us. Does that mean we don't recognize that these people haven't worked hard? No, we recognise that, but it's just about how our social dialogue is organised and how hospital funding is organized. I would like to say that this was a one-off measure and that we do not want to stick to one-off measures. I think the staff needs to be re-evaluated structurally. We will therefore continue to focus on better wages and working conditions for all staff. Of course, it is also necessary to consider in hospitals whether outsourcing is better and more qualitative than employing staff from the hospital budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic385x.u23	Minister, I understand that your powers do not extend there, but they do in the discussions with the social partners. I think that's very important. I've always resisted outsourcing, especially at a company like Ford. Nothing is as frustrating as people who do exactly the same work but one earns seven euros less than the other. I mean, here's what I'm talking about. The cleaning women of the external cleaning companies do the same work as the cleaning women who are on the payroll of the hospital itself. The former alone deserved a lot less and had to do much more work during this pandemic. The companies have therefore passed this on to the hospitals themselves. These people have been in enormous danger because in certain hospitals their own staff did not want to do the work, or because the hospitals have decided to allow this to happen in subcontracting. Now, with such a decision, they would fall out of the boat one more time. Minister, I think you will feel the same way as I do, but this is a mild form of anger, especially when people know what these people have been through over the past year. Are we going to say that every night at 8:00 a.m. the applause was only for the hospital staff and not for them? That could be the next step. You will understand me when I say that I really do not like this and that I ask you to accept your responsibility and discuss this with the social partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic385x.u24	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I certainly understand the context in which the decision was taken. You explained that very well. You mentioned the social dialogue and the fact that the hospitals decide autonomously. But it remains a difficult message for the cleaning staff who have been in the line of fire, compared to the hospital staff who have received the premium but have been less in the line of fire. If an encouragement is given in the near future, I hope that this approach will be taken into account. I think it is important that the social partners also receive an effective response to their letters so that they can convey the message to their members, employers and employees. So I understand the context in which the decision was taken, but I continue to hope that a new encouragement will look at it from a different perspective.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic385x.u25	Minister, COOVID-19 is recognised as an occupational disease for workers with a significantly increased risk in health care and certain other key sectors and essential services. In the field, there are many questions about the recognition procedure of COOVID-19 as an occupational disease for health care professionals on a salary basis. Many corona patients have to recover for weeks and sometimes even months before they can get back to work. The recognition procedures at Fedris would drag on for a very long time, which means that those persons fall back to 60% of their pay, whereas they are actually entitled to compensation for temporary incapacity for work, in full or in part. According to the latest statistics on declarations and applications for recognition of Fedris' occupational disease, only one third of the total number of applications received a decision since March 2020 was almost 10,000. My first obvious question is, therefore, how is it that only one third of the applications have already been decided on. What is the average waiting time for a recognition procedure? How come this procedure is taking so long? In what way will you ensure that the total number of more than 6,500 applicants who have not yet received an answer, will receive a final ruling on their application as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic385x.u26	Mr Minister, the recognition of COOVID-19 as an occupational disease was regulated by a ministerial decision of 26 June 2020, which refers to a list of key sectors. Except for persons active in the care sector, there has been no coverage for persons active in the essential sectors since the end of May. That end date was then prompted by the lifting of the measures of the first lockdown. In the meantime, we're already in the second lockdown and those workers have been forgotten. For some of them, their task is essential, and their activities do expose them to possible contamination on a daily basis. The logical question is therefore whether, given the circumstances, you can provide an extension for a number of essential functions. If not, what is the reason for this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic385x.u27	Mr Minister, the law of 11 April 1995 states that Fedris' reimbursement decisions are in principle taken within four months and that the first payments that follow in principle must also be made within four months. The management agreement between Fedris and the Government sets out objectives with regard to those decision-making and payment periods. It stipulates that 50% of applications from the private sector will be made within four months and 70% will have to be made after eight months. It also included the objective of limiting the number of files in instruction for more than one year to 500. Will you include in the new management agreement with Fedris, starting from 2022, objectives to bring the deadline more in line with the legally set four-month period? Can you give an update on the lead time of fees files relating to COVID-19? Has this increased the burden of the dossier to such an extent that additional measures should be taken or additional recruitments should be made? How has the lead time of files, in general, been evaluated in recent years? The lead time is still not the legal four months. What do you think is the main cause of this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic385x.u28	The occupational disease code 1.404.03, which already existed in the list of occupational diseases, could indeed be used from the start of the outbreak of the epidemic for health care workers. In fact, they are at a significantly higher risk of infection. In view of the full lockdown and the powers conferred on the government at the time, workers in the key sectors and services could also be recognised under the temporary occupational disease code 1.404.04 in the period from 18 March to 17 May 2020. That was determined by the Royal Decree No. 39 of 26 June 2020. During the overall lockdown, the aim was to protect those workers who had no choice but to go to work and were therefore more exposed to COVID-19 than the general population. There was an objective presence of an increased exposure to virus carriers for people who could not possibly telework and could not respect the imposed social-districting measures at the workplace. The latest state of affairs came to me from Fedris on February 10th. At that time, there were 11,417 applications for health care workers' compensation at an increased risk and 334 applications by workers from key sectors and essential services, for the period from 18 March to 17 May 2020. In addition, there were 2,112 applications pending registration. For health professionals, 4,193 decisions were taken at that time, of which 447 applications were rejected. As a result, a decision was already taken in 37% of the registered files. For workers working in key sectors and services, 58 decisions were taken at that time, 21 of which were rejected. A decision has already been taken in 17% of those registered files. The majority of negative decisions were due to the fact that the applicant did not fall within the scope of the legislation on compensation for occupational diseases. Self-employed persons, including, for example, general practitioners and self-employed physicists, are also not eligible for compensation from Fedris. Some applications fell within the scope of the Law of 3 July 1967 on compensation for accidents at work, road accidents at work and occupational diseases in the public sector. These claims for compensation were forwarded to the competent institution. The other applications concerned, inter alia, the disease that has not been proven, the person who abandoned the application, the person who was not exposed to the risk, the person who requested assistance from another person who was not necessary or the necessary documents and information requested by Fedris who was not provided. Mrs Willaert says that the disability of these people can take a long time. I can also give you some details. In the context of applications under code 1.404.03 2,522 decisions were taken to grant a period of temporary incapacity for work. In 73 % of the cases, the period of incapacity was between two and four weeks, in 15% of the cases it was four to six weeks, in 7% of the cases it was six to nine weeks and in 5% of the cases it was more than nine weeks. For 1,170 applications, only reimbursement of health care was granted because there was no period of incapacity for work or a period of incapacity for work less than 15 calendar days. Then there is the problem of the treatment period. Decisions already taken were taken on average 152 days after receipt of the identifiable application. These figures also date from 10 February. Much of the instruction time was lost between the receipt of the application and its registration, due to the unexpected influx of thousands of applications on top of normal work. In 2020, Fedris also registered 10.152 other claims for compensation for an occupational disease. In 2020, the declarations received were 15,248 for all pathologies, compared to only 2,473 declarations in 2019 and 21,014 for all pathologies together, compared to only 9,598 in 2019. So very quickly a large stock of processed requests arose during the first wave. Since it was a new disease, the necessary procedures and criteria for recognition had to be established. It therefore took until the summer of 2020 for the applications received to be registered and the data subjects received a receipt, with a file number, contact details of the file manager and the request for more information or confirmation of the completeness of the file. In the course of June and July 2020, ten additional temporary staff were recruited to process these applications. They entered service in the course of August and September 2020. In November 2020 there were another two employees. These employees were trained and trained and are now fully involved in the various teams that process the requests concerning COVID-19. The time between the receipt of the application and its registration has thus been reduced to the normal level. Additional recruitments are also planned in 2021: two at level A and four at level C. Internal procedures are also regularly updated to ensure that they are as efficient as possible. Some assisting doctors employed by Fedris have increased their working time to make the many medical decisions. The Budget Commissioner has agreed to increase this number even further. As you can see, measures have been taken since June 2020 to strengthen the workforce at Fedris. These measures have made it possible to make up for the delay experienced during the first months of the pandemic. This positive evolution will continue. As you can see, I pay a great deal of attention to the development of this situation. I will continue to bet on the reinforcement of the workforce. Then I come to the questions about the current situation. Since 2 November 2020, we have been faced with a new lockdown, but it remains partial and is not comparable to the situation in March 2020, especially if we recall the industry's basic principles on occupational risks mentioned above. The definition of a professional risk determines what distinguishes a professional risk from a risk which results in illness within common law. Occupational activity must be at an increased risk of contracting the disease. Such exposure shall be substantially higher than the usual exposure risk in daily life. There is therefore an occupational disease where exposure to a harmful effect can be associated with the exercise of the profession and exposure to that harmful effect is significantly greater than the exposure of the general population. Given that, according to generally accepted medical insights, exposure during daily life is the main cause of the disease, the impact has not been negligible during the new partial lockdown since November 2020. As you will be aware, the specific nature of occupational risks is very delicate and has an important value for the social partners, given the very specific status and nature of occupational disease insurance. With regard to the extension of the recognition of COOVID-19 as an occupational disease for non-health workers, taking into account the way the virus spreads, it is necessary to ensure that the basis of the occupational risk system, as explained above, is maintained. In the other case, we may in future be faced with requests which differ from those basic principles and the benefits associated with them. Partly in response to my question, the Management Committee for Fedris' occupational diseases regularly evaluates and updates the situation through working groups on the basis of opinions from the Commission on Biological Agents. Those opinions are, of course, based on medical evidence. I don't want to anticipate that either. I assure you that Fedris and I take the matter very seriously. Finally, I would like to remind you of the following. Recognition as an accident at work is possible. I am thinking in particular of certain professions, such as police services, civil protection, fire services, medical assistance, childcare and schools. We know how the virus spreads. Infection does not require prolonged or repeated contact with the virus. A short contact time may be sufficient, as the close contact of fifteen minutes with an infected person, according to what we now know, is sufficient. In this sense, a 15-minute contact with an infected person or a person exhibiting the symptoms of COVID-19 may take the place of a sudden event, which is an essential element for recognition as an accident at work. In order to obtain the recognition of COOVID-19 as an accident at work, the following four conditions must be met simultaneously: a sudden event which caused an injury and which occurred during and through the performance of the contract of employment. Evidence of the sudden event and of the fact that it has occurred in the context of the implementation of the agreement, in this case the statute, may be provided by a report drawn up by a police officer, by the testimony of a colleague, by images of the action, by control or by an exchange of views. Evidence of COVID-19 is reported by a PCR test or a suggestive clinical trial confirmed by objective tests, such as a lung CT scan. The mere possibility that contact with one or more persons may have caused the development of COVID-19 is sufficient, without it having to be established that the contact in the individual case has been the cause of COVID-19. As soon as those elements have been established, the accident at work must be recognised and reimbursed, except where the insurer can establish with certainty that the injury is not the result of the sudden event, for example by establishing that the persons with whom the victim has had close contact are not carriers of the virus, by establishing that the occurrence of COVID-19 occurred after the normal incubation period or by establishing that the accident did not occur during and by the fact that the contract was implemented. I consult with my colleagues Petra De Sutter and Annelies Verlinden to coordinate the measures to be taken and to find the most appropriate solution for each situation within the possibilities offered by our social security. Like I said, Fedris is working with him every day. Of course, I also listen to the social partners and study their proposals. With regard to the period of treatment, I would like to stress the specific nature of the examination of an application relating to an occupational disease, as well as the specialised medical aspect, the need to object to the facts which often go back a long way in time and the need for a high level of data exchange with the applicant and/or his doctor. All these elements make it difficult to deal with the dossiers within the prescribed time limit. In addition, within the covid pandemic, we have seen a major impact of the pandemic on the remuneration assignment for occupational diseases by a significant increase in the volume, which doubled in less than a year, requiring a whole reorganisation and additional staff. The covid pandemic has also strongly influenced the organization of Fedris himself. The visits to companies for control and risk assessment were, of course, suspended during the lockdown and after that period did not normally resume. This also applies to medical examinations or meetings of certain committees in the context of a remuneration contract. By the way, because Fedris did not work entirely digitally, the reception and processing of paper files became increasingly complicated. The mandatory telework was of course also not conducive to some activities, such as training and recruitment. Fedris must stick to that, but as in the private sector, that is not always self-evident. When drawing up the new management agreement with Fedris from 2022, I will try to ensure that the objective of bringing the deadline more into line with the legally set four-month period is included. There is, I hope, a sufficiently exhaustive answer to the various questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic385x.u29	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed reply. We can say that there is already a recovery and that there is further improvement. As regards the deadlines for responding to their application, I note that additional recruitments have already taken place and will follow in 2021. I fully understand the exceptional situation Fedris has experienced. I also understand that the necessary procedures and criteria must then be put in place in an unseen situation with regard to an unseen disease. I hope that the improvement will continue, because it is very important that people can get an answer within a reasonable period of time. This is important for their income and security. The EESC welcomes the fact that the four-month legal deadline can be included in the new management agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic385x.u30	Thank you, Minister, for your very comprehensive answer. I understand that the situation for workers in key sectors is being evaluated and that there are opportunities to submit a dossier when a risk of exposure is considered real. I hope, however, that the possibility of submitting a dossier will be sufficiently communicated to these sectors.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic385x.u31	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed answer. All understanding of the handling of the covid files. I am pleased to hear that you are indeed trying to take serious steps in this regard. I am not going to blame you for mopping it up with the tap open. However, the problems with the lead time at Fedris have been going on for some time now, which are not just related to this data. I didn't hear much about that in your answer. A new management agreement will be introduced in 2022. I hope that the lessons learned by a tsunami of applications will also improve the overall functioning of Fedris in the longer term. It is not only important for people with covid to make quick, clear and correct decisions. I was gonna give that to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic385x.u32	I think a new meeting is scheduled for March 17. The agenda will reach you before the end of this week.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic385x.u33	Madam President, we have a heavy agenda with a lot of questions and I wonder what we will do about it. We cannot now say that these questions will not be answered until 17 March, because there will be a whole pack of questions. Maybe we should look for a solution after all?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic385x.u34	Mrs Lanjri, that's still the problem. For the moment, I see that this is the way it is in all the committees, with all the ministers. I think the Minister of Defence needs to answer 70 questions this morning. As for the Minister of Mobility, he had 80 on the agenda yesterday. We are indeed very proactive and we control the government with great vigilance – and that is very good. Nevertheless, calendars are made week after week. It seems to me that there is no other possibility than what has been planned for the next few days. I can only suggest that you come back at the next sitting. I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic385x.u35	Yes, but in other committees, including Minister Dermagne, we have already proposed that the questions be answered in writing, but immediately. Then we would get the answers from the cabinet. Is that an option? After all, if I have to re-table my questions as written questions, it will take another two months. We just can't do that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic385x.u36	I am well aware, Mrs Lanjri, but, as we have already said, this procedure must be reviewed by the Conference of Presidents and by Parliament because it is not planned at Parliament level. I can't ask the minister to send his answers right away. That is not planned. The only thing that Parliament has planned is to switch these oral questions to written questions. As a result, the time frame is usually longer than when we meet again, that is, three weeks later. I really want a solution to this situation, but for the moment it is not my responsibility or my initiative to be able to do so in this committee. Unfortunately, that is not possible. On the other hand, there is the personal initiative to contact the cabinet directly, but this is not within my jurisdiction or Parliament's jurisdiction. It is left to the freedom and initiative of the minister. Here in Parliament, that is not possible. We are going to try to get rid of the questions, and this, the next time, so that it doesn't happen again. We will avoid scheduling sittings that deal with both bills and oral questions because that is what has also put us in trouble today. I understand that this is a problem, but there is no solution for this morning.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic385x.u37	Madam President, I am going a bit in the same direction. I think everyone is trying to do the best they can. Personally, I have a question on the agenda. I've been connected since this morning. I am still trying to do something else, but it is complicated, in the organisation of work, to follow a commission partially while waiting to be called to ask his question and to continue to work. I wonder if there is any way to plan a commission earlier than March 17, 2021. Furthermore, as you say, Parliament is proactive. Perhaps this should be made more known when I see the press over the last few days saying that Parliament is apathetic and sleepy. There may also be some reason to say that, on the contrary, we are doing our job as best we can. I understand that ministers cannot spend their day in committee in Parliament either, but we must try to find a balance. But on March 17, 2021, I think it's very late because it's almost in three weeks, if I'm not mistaken.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic385x.u38	Yes, absolutely. I'll get back in touch with the minister's office to see if there are any other times available. I fully agree with you on the idea of re-establishing the reality of the commitment of each of our colleagues in this Parliament. We agree. As for the agenda, it had been done in such a way that we could normally finish today. As a result of the work, a bill came into this morning's sitting, which took us almost an hour. So that has necessarily already put us in a bit of trouble. Anyway, I'm going to check if there's any possibility earlier, knowing that the week of March 8, 2021 is already a busy week and that next week the minister is not available. That is why I proposed the date of March 17. I'll be back soon with an agenda. This will allow you to make arrangements. I agree with your point of view. I myself am following other committees to see where we are in the questions. It is indeed complicated, as we know.
