ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic362x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister is available until 12.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic362x.u2	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the health crisis has had a negative impact on the health of Belgians, but has also destabilized, in part, a large number of economic sectors, and even entire sections of our economy, including culture, contact jobs, restaurants, bars, etc., which are forced to keep their doors closed, which sometimes has a dramatic impact on both the self-employed and the workers and their families. Horeca, like culture, belongs to sectors dear to our lifestyle. I think we all enjoy meeting around a beautiful play, a good movie, a good meal or a bar to talk with broken sticks. These sectors, which are currently considered non-essential, are essential to our quality of life. Tomorrow, when the health situation permits, we will return without moderation to this life. Therefore, Mr Minister, I must convey to you our most complete incomprehension in reading the comments made by the CEO of Belfius, who, as a reminder, is always supported by the Belgian State. What brutality and cynicism on the part of a boss of a public bank who, however, needed a massive intervention of public money to deal with an unprecedented financial crisis caused by the irresponsibility of an entire sector! His remarks seem to us to be inappropriate in view of the situation in this sector. Minister, how do you react to these cynical remarks? Shouldn't a Belgian bank, and especially Belfius, a public bank, play the role of supporting the real economy and meet quickly with the Horeca sector to see how to bring support measures to the sector? Will you make any arrangements to move forward in this direction?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic362x.u3	Madam President, Mr Loones has been delayed in the Committee on Economic Affairs. I will include his question in my combined question later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic362x.u4	Madam President, Minister, we are aware of the statements made by the CEO of Belfius. This question was programmed a few weeks ago, so the actuality of the incident is a bit lost. However, the situation remains what it is. Ten years ago, the banks, and not the least Dexia, were in financial trouble. These problems were created by the industry itself at the time. There was intervention and every Belgian bank was saved from bankruptcy. This had consequences for society that are still palpable today. Today our SMEs and the self-employed are struggling and it is now up to the banks to be a safety net for businesses. By the way, they can do so with public support through the State guarantee. My question was about the CEO of Belfius. So this is primarily about Belfius. Do you believe that a bank in the hands of the government should excel to a special extent in its efforts to support all Belgian companies in difficulty? In other words, that it does not make a normative distinction between the losers and the winners of a recession? Can all Belgian entrepreneurs still rely today on Belgium's financial policy to support as many of them as possible? If so, will concrete steps be taken to ensure that Belfius continues its policy and supports the real economy in line with the wishes of the government? Can a management agreement which formalises the expectations of the Belgian State as the sole shareholder of Belfius form part of such a concrete step?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic362x.u5	Madam President, Minister, I can partly endorse Mr Vanbesien's introduction. The subject was also discussed in plenary last week. The event sector and the catering industry are particularly displeased by a number of events and statements from last week. At the start of the corona crisis, companies, mainly the event sector and the catering industry, were able to count on a 9-month delay to repay their loans to the banks. The deadline of 9 months, which has been imposed by Europe, has now expired, but according to the top man of Febelfin, Karel Baert, further delay is possible provided that all dossiers are looked at on a case-by-case basis. The postponement or moratorium ended at the end of January, but the sector in question still has no income and complains that banks are not always flexible and do not always come forward with the best solutions. On the contrary, the catering sector is sometimes put under heavy pressure to use other resources. However, the need for appropriations is very high. The sector is also entitled to this. The situation is very diffuse at the moment, which, of course, leads to uncertainty, uncertainty and arbitrariness. Last week, I drew your attention in plenary to the danger of a break in the balance of the credit market. This could have a very serious impact on the entire financial market. We absolutely must avoid that. I have the following questions. Do you know of any arbitrariness among the banks in granting deferment of payment for loans to the event and hospitality sector? Will you soon enter into consultation, not only with the banking sector, but also with the event and catering sector, to see what additional measures need to be taken to ensure that the sector survives, as the second lockdown silently turns into a third lockdown? If you have any suggestions, you can always contact us. Are you prepared to take a legal initiative to spread the risk of default between the government, the banks and the event and catering sector more evenly, so that the postponement of payments can be extended more easily?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic362x.u6	Mr Minister, the December 2020 banking agreement is indeed about postponing the payment of capital for business credits. However, the total payment delay for 2020 and 2021 together may not exceed nine months cumulatively. Ladies and gentlemen spoke mainly about the catering and events sector, but there is also something like the tourism sector. Our group was together with Westtoer, the provincial public authority for tourism a few weeks ago. There are also campers and owners of holiday parks, who were still in the news yesterday, because they are right about the mandatory closure, which has now been suspended. There are also many questions in the tourism sector and there is displeasure about the delay in payment. As long as there is no income, capital repayment is difficult. The solvency of tourism companies is also evidently being called into question more and more by the banks. The nine-month limitation also applies to residential loans and is imposed by the European Banking Authority. That supervisor wants to avoid that risks, if too long a delay in payment, would remain hidden from the banks. Is it possible to take steps at European level with the European Banking Authority to make a possible adjustment to the restriction? In reply to questions from colleagues in plenary about your intended streamlining of the case-by-case approach, we have taken note of your contacts with Febelfin. It is good to work on this in the short term, but can we also work at European level?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic362x.u7	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for letting me speak now. Indeed, I sit simultaneously on two committees. Madam President, I am very pleased that we can have a topical debate on such an important issue. Mr Minister, you have been questioned several times in plenary by parliamentarians from all groups on the issue of bank support for businesses. A few days ago, you were able to make a fairly important communication, in which you asked the banks to be more supportive with our independents and our companies. You went so far as to indicate your wish to put in place a protocol with the banks to support them and to ensure that the rest of the arrangements are structured in terms of banking support for SMEs and the self-employed. What you said is important. I understand that, in the current debate, you are clarifying your intentions in this area. As we have indicated with our group leader Benoit Piedboeuf, we have asked, together with other parliamentary groups, to be able to receive the banking sector as soon as possible in the context of a joint hearing of the Finance and Economy Committees. It is for us to hear the Febelfin, certainly, but not only; to hear also the banks, in order to be able to determine whether they fully meet the imperatives of solidarity which you have recalled and which are detailed in the banking agreement and no doubt in the next protocol. Minister, I wanted to draw your attention to a few points. There are recurring problems on the ground. Today, they leave the independents in a terrible situation. Moreover, the banking agreement which does not provide for leasing or leasing leaves our independents, in terms of moratoriums and credit carry-overs, in an extremely complicated situation in certain sectors. There's this famous nine-month limit. Mr Minister, you indicated to me, as a response in plenary about ten days ago, that this was an obligation of the European Banking Authority. It's not an obligation! It's an opinion! He advises on guidelines. A number of countries have extended this period by nine months because their economies need it. Of course, we must plead with the European Banking Authority to go in that direction. It is of course a matter of doing so because, if you stay capped at nine months, you push the entire event sector to put the key under the mat. It's been closed for nine months! Today, parliamentarians receive countless messages from the sector. It's dramatic and I don't even talk about the world at night. I therefore plead that, like other countries in Europe, you should ask the Banking Authority for an extension for certain sectors which are particularly affected.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic362x.u8	Madam President, Minister, as you know, the past year has been very difficult for our citizens, both from a health and an economic point of view. Many of them have experienced a decline in their income, have been forced into partial unemployment, or have seen a slowdown or even a halt in their entrepreneurial activities. Some of them are currently having difficulty repaying their real estate credit. In order to prevent the situation from getting worse, the Government has made it possible to postpone repayments of mortgage loans. For example, more than 120,000 people made use of this measure, for an average amount of €104,255 per mortgage credit. The recent renewal of the possibility of deferring mortgage payments is positive for many households. Nevertheless, despite the establishment of a regulatory framework around this moratorium, the citizens most affected by the crisis are not guaranteed adequate protection. On the one hand, it is not guaranteed that citizens will be granted a carry-over of payment of their credits. The current regulations do not introduce any rights to this moratorium, so banks remain in charge of assessing the borrower's risk and ability to repay. On the other hand, as a time-limited measure, it leaves our citizens in some uncertainty as to their ability to repay their credits in the coming months. Minister, we know that the longer the crisis lasts, the more it will have a long-term negative impact on our citizens. The current moratorium may not be sufficient to assist the most vulnerable families. Are you planning new measures to help the most disadvantaged families? Are you sure that no interest is claimed from citizens earning less than €1,700? What is the government's room for manoeuvre following a refusal to postpone mortgage credit? Are you considering establishing an agreement with banking agencies to clarify the situations that allow this postponement?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic362x.u9	Mr Minister, on 21 and 28 January, I questioned you in plenary about the arbitrariness with which some banks deal with their customers who are applying for an additional delay in payment because they are in great difficulty because of the ongoing corona crisis. There were poignant testimonies which led to an avalanche of questions from various groups. I am very pleased that you condemned these practices in plenary last week, and rightly so. More importantly, you also announced an initiative. You want to conclude a protocol with the banking sector in order, I quote: 'to agree on uniform procedures and rules', in the context of the case-by-case approach that banks are applying to companies applying for a wider delay of payments than the nine months in the framework of the moratorium due to expire at the end of March. These companies are individually in a weak position when negotiating with their bank. This results in an extraction of the loans, solutions with high file costs or mandatory boarding into all kinds of expensive financial products, which makes the problem even bigger. The most simple and fair solution seems to us to be an extension of the moratorium and the extension of the maximum deadline for deferment of payments. We believe that this is perfectly possible since the National Bank has provided additional capital buffers for the banks so that more than nine months of delay can be granted, in accordance with European rules. Is it still possible, Mr Minister, to extend the nine-month deadline for the moratorium on the current scope? Which companies would be subject to a protocol? What elements do you want to include in this protocol and according to which chalk lines? How are you going to ensure that there is an actual stick next to a root, the state guarantee? How will you check the application of the agreements we make with the banks? What is the timing of your initiative?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic362x.u10	Mr Loones is still absent. Then I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic362x.u11	Madam President, members of the committee, thank you for the questions that have been asked. In fact, I will be so kind as to answer Mr Loones' questions as well so that no one feels inadequate. We had this discussion in plenary two weeks ago, Mr Vandenbroucke. And we had a good discussion on this last week too. So you will not mind if I repeat a little bit of what I put forward in plenary last week, but with a little more clarification and, where possible, more detail. Together with you, I have noted that the pandemic has, of course, affected a lot of sectors, including the catering industry. Speakings such as those of Mr Raisière obviously ignore the efforts of many, including those of the entrepreneurs who have to close their cases. I have therefore contacted him and made it clear that his statements are not sensible. I have also asked him for clarification so that the situation can be corrected. Meanwhile, the CEO of Belfius has publicly apologized for his statements and Belfius has indicated that it will continue to support the Belgian economy, including the horeca sector, with all the means at its disposal. Since then, Belfius has also stated that several horeca federations have been contacted and discussions have begun on how it can provide additional support to their members. The government has, from the outset, supported the affected sectors by taking unprecedented aid and recovery measures. Our intention is to continue to do so in the future and to lead companies that were healthy before the crisis through the crisis, so that the revival of our economy can be launched as soon as possible afterwards. We are now discussing in the government what support and recovery measures we can take and how we can support the relay. Mr Loones is asking for a revival plan for the catering industry. We are preparing texts. For example, we are examining whether we can take back the tariff favor in the form of the reduction of VAT to 6%, which was applicable at the previous stage until 31 December. Furthermore, in the area of income tax, we aim to extend the 100% deductibility of reception costs incurred during the 2021 income year for the tax year 2022. We are looking at these measures now. We hope to be able to confirm them as soon as possible and have them approved in Parliament. Everyone has to play their part, including banks. We ask everyone to show solidarity, reasonable and humane. As some have said, we showed solidarity a few years ago when the banks themselves were in difficulty. Today, we call on banks to shoulder their responsibilities, to show solidarity and to fully assume their social role. As regards the question of whether Belfius and the banking sector play their part in the crisis, I can tell you that the banking sector has played its part so far in lending. The monitoring carried out by the National Bank of Belgium shows that lending has been maintained and that there is no credit crunch. Of course, some sectors are more difficult than others, but this is not so much due to the nature of the sector as to the repayment capacity of companies in these sectors that have been closed for quite some time. As far as the moratorium on company loans is concerned, at the beginning of December, we made a number of agreements in consultation with the banks and, of course, on the basis of the directives adopted by EBA. According to EBA, delays could be granted for company credits, but the moratorium should not last longer than 9 months. This is an avis and not a ban, but it has serious consequences for the banks if we go beyond the period of the moratorium. We must therefore certainly dare to take this important element into account in the debate. With regard to Mr Ducarme's question on the deviation from the EBA (European Banking Authority) guidelines, I can provide the following information. These guidelines are not intended for businesses or the federal authority. EBA's guidelines are addressed to the national supervisory authorities of banks – in Belgium, the National Bank of Belgium – and aim to clarify how supervisory authorities should properly apply prudential rules applicable to banks. It is not for the Minister of Finance to interfere in the financial control of banks by the National Bank of Belgium. It is important that the National Bank of Belgium be able to exercise its control independently, without political interference. Banks must make maximum use of the additional provisions they have put in place for the benefit of our economy, but no one will benefit from a new financial crisis either. I believe that this important clarification should be taken into account in the discussion. However, I would point out that the restriction in the EBA directives does not rule out the possibility for a bank, whether or not within the framework of a general moratorium, to defer payment for more than nine months. In such cases, the delay in payment should be recognised or recognised in the bank's own funds requirements and in the fees to be paid by the bank in question for that credit. There are therefore automatic consequences if they are not met. For the sake of completeness, I would add that the moratorium granted before 30 September 2020 for more than nine months and meets all the criteria, in line with EBA guidelines, is considered to be a general moratorium for the entire period of delay in payment. The nine-month ceiling therefore applies to new moratoria or extensions of existing moratoria since then. It is not in line with expectations that the European Banking Authority will adapt the conditions regarding the prudential preferential treatment of general moratoria in the near future, inter alia by not extending the general moratoria in many EU Member States, but also by encouraging banks to gradually recognise credit derivatives. Was I satisfied with that limit to nine months? No, but on that basis, of course, we went into consultation with the banks in December, with the aim of ensuring that we can get healthy businesses through this crisis. We've made arrangements. Deferral is granted for applications for carry-overs of less than nine months. If a company needs a carry-over of more than nine months, it is directed to the bank for a case-by-case approach and a personalized approach. What I read about the practices of some banks is unacceptable. I stressed this last week in plenary. In fact, we must avoid a certain degree of arbitrariness. If there are any questions about the case-by-case approach, if it turns out that it does not take place in a reasonable and mutually supportive way, then that is clearly inadmissible and unacceptable. It is this message that I have also sent to the banks and to Febelfin. It's clear and simple. I added, however, that we need to look for solutions. Indeed, we cannot demand that banks alone solve the problem. So we will have to find solutions together. Several colleagues have already mentioned it, including Mr Van der Donkt. The problem today is mainly with companies which have been delayed for more than nine months. That is why I have called for clarity on how the case-by-case approach is taking place. We must lay down simple procedures and rules for this, and it would not be a bad thing for us to be able to agree with the banks on how to do that. I have made an agreement with Febelfin that we will examine together what procedure we will use. For the sake of clarity, that procedure will have to concentrate on the distinction between viable companies and non-viable companies. That is a discussion that we must enter into. I also mentioned last week in the debate that we need to know very well what our objective is: to pull healthy businesses, which were healthy before the crisis, through this crisis. However, for the structurally unhealthy companies, and I stress structuralally, we must dare to say that we must not keep them virtually alive. I know this is not an easy message. However, it is something that will come back from time to time. We must avoid creating a snowball effect on healthy businesses in the event of bankruptcy. As regards the message from viable and non-viable companies, we are also in consultation with the sectors. They are well aware of the problem and, above all, they are in favour of ensuring that we can pull viable companies through the crisis. With regard to Mrs Thémont's question on the moratorium on mortgage loans, I would point out that the charter applies to all individuals who meet the conditions, whether they have already obtained a report or an extension of the postponement of the repayment – under the first charter or not. I will also include the possible extension of the deferment of payments for mortgages when I talk to the banking sector. I'm closing up. I think the framework within which we work is clear. We are, of course, working with the sector today to see how we can tackle this problem, with the important element in the discussion that we are in favour of leading viable companies through this crisis. I repeat in my conclusion that we must be very clear that we imposed very strict conditions of caution on banks after the banking crisis. That element is part of the current discussion. I think that we should draw the attention of the banks to the role they have to play. In your replies, I would like to hear how you see the framework for continuing the discussions. In any case, the aim is to conclude the talks and negotiations with Febelfin in the very short term.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic362x.u12	We now come to the replicas. I give the floor to Mr. Ducrame.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic362x.u13	Madam President, Mr Ducrame is in the nearby committee room. He's coming.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic362x.u14	No problem. Mr. Bayet had to leave us because he was going to another commission. Mr. Van Hees had warned us of his absence, knowing that his question would be declared moot. I give the floor to Mr Loones.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic362x.u15	In the Committee on Economic Affairs, where I was present together with Mr Ducarme and Mr Van Hees, it was just about European relay money and there the hundreds of millions of euros are flying around. It's interesting for everyone here to take a look at that. After all, there is a lot of work on the shelf. However, I suddenly heard the word "hospital services" blow in the corridors and decided to rush me to the Finance Committee. That's how it goes. When one speaks of the devil, one sees one's tail. Nevertheless, Minister, I am pleased that I have been able to take your answer on the catering industry for a short time. It is good that a number of measures are being examined and that the dossier is being properly prepared so that the sector knows where it stands. We have already had the debate on how we can clarify this for the reopening, so that logistics is also in order. I specifically address the VAT reduction. Once again, you state that a VAT reduction is under investigation. While you're looking at them, I would advise you to read The Time of last weekend. In an interview, Mr Van Quickenborne, your fellow Deputy Prime Minister, says literally that it is inevitable for the catering industry that the VAT reduction will be extended. Apparently, one is already a little more advanced in his beliefs. I'm assuming you are, too. Of course, as Minister of Finance, you have the hardest voice in the dossier. I would certainly like to hear that, if you can, you support that statement by your fellow Deputy Prime Minister, because we are in a discussion about solvency. With the catering and events sector, the main focus is on the liquidity debate. The VAT measure is not a pleasure measure but, above all, a liquidity measure, which is intended to reduce the tax burden, thus enabling them to keep the capital in the company and strengthen everything they have lost in terms of capital. Secondly, Unizo is also dealing with a number of very interesting issues in the field of relay policy. There are a number of traces of thought that are useful for the catering sector and that belong to your competence. For example, the organisation makes an interesting suggestion, in my personal opinion, to improve the tax favor regime for overtime. In addition, there are a number of other suggestions, which are more about powers of other ministers, such as student labour, flexi-jobs or flexibility in holiday days. I am using my reply to call upon you to take an extra look at that. After all, the people of Unizo did very valuable work during the first phase of the lockdown. They were very close to the companies and made sure that they had information quickly. Their expertise was already great and was only strengthened.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic362x.u16	I do not want to pin Mr Raisière on one unfortunate statement. In the meantime, he himself has realised that it was not so appropriate and he has entered into dialogue with the endorsed sector. The incident itself shows that we must remain vigilant. The situation is unseen both for financial institutions and for SMEs and the self-employed. We must indeed look at structurally healthy companies. That's always been the case. From the beginning it was said that we had to help the structurally healthy companies through the crisis. The parameters to determine what a structurally healthy company is, we also recorded last year. I do not really understand what new, additional discussion is going on. I believe that these parameters are well known. We must continue to ensure that structuralally sound entrepreneurs are properly and adequately supported by the banks. This vigilance may need to become a little more compelling. You're making new appointments with Febelfin. Then perhaps we should also make sure that these agreements are a little less non-binding than they were. If these agreements are broken over and over again, we may indeed have to put a stick behind the door.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic362x.u17	Mr Ducrame, who has just joined us, has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic362x.u18	Mr Minister, my group leader has given me your answer, which I thank you for. As I indicated in the plenary session, you spoke, following the statements of the CEO of Belfius, to ensure that the shot was corrected. It was all the more essential that Belfius, formerly Dexia, a bank saved by the state and thus by the taxpayer, should, as a public bank, be more than others alongside the suffering actors on the ground, such as Horeca and our hairdressers. I hear you want to continue putting pressure on banks. Let me share my doubts with you. Indeed, in my view, the pressure on the banking sector will have to be extremely important. You know I'm a fairly interventionist Liberal. As a member of the federal government, I will tell you that you can put pressure on the National Bank of Belgium to review its judgement on the nine-month cap which, today, leads the entire event sector to bankruptcy. Anyway, I have a doubt that persists. That is why, Minister, I believe that allowing banks to deal with the situation of entrepreneurs and independents on a case-by-case basis is leaving them far too alone to deal with the banks. The government and the Minister of Finance are expected to define, on the occasion of a new protocol, a framework, as some colleagues have said, that is more binding on banks in order not to leave these entrepreneurs alone. From the moment you can negotiate such a framework with Febelfin, I'll tell you that you've done your job. But today, unfortunately, I have to tell you that this is not completely the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic362x.u19	Thank you, Minister, for the answer that was satisfactory on certain points. It may be strange to hear that from the opposition, but our group feels that you are on the right track in managing this crisis. It is effectively not a good idea to diabolize the banks in this respect. We know that they sometimes leave a mark on them, and you have also addressed Mr Raisière, which is a good thing. We will have to continue to respond to the banks so that they take responsibility. You also have the means to do so. Another point is that there is no credit crunch today. The figures point effectively in that direction, but the perception is opposed. SMEs and the business world have a very different feeling and there is therefore some work to be done in communication. We are pleased to note that you will make efforts to obtain an extension of the moratorium. In addition, I would like to draw your attention to the bridging appropriations because sometimes things seem to go wrong. Indeed, it can be seen that the bridging credits for SMEs remain far too limited while there are still buffers in the banks. I believe that a sum of EUR 10 billion was available for this, and that has not yet been cleared up, and there is still room for manoeuvre. I would like to stress that the financing of structurally sound SMEs, those with a chance of survival, should remain guaranteed until the end of 2021.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic362x.u20	Mr Minister, I am going to draw the tail of the proverbial devil again in plenary tomorrow, in accordance with Rule 88. I propose a structural VAT reduction for the catering industry to 6%. Furthermore, your approach seems to reflect your personification of the new booklet by Rik Torfs and Pieter Marechal about the center and the center. I like to hear that. A balanced approach is indeed needed. Of course, the 9-month guideline is there for a reason, given the possible consequences for the banks. The balance is indeed around viable and non-viable enterprises. Ladies and gentlemen, it has already been said here, there is, of course, a twilight zone, in certain sectors, even though they are healthy, they have been closed for a very long time. That's what it's about in the first place. That's what you're gonna have to fine tune with that protocol and the banks around those case-by-case approaches. I wish you every success. We will, of course, follow that up very closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic362x.u21	Minister, thank you for your answers. It is true that the crisis of the coronavirus has led to an unexpected drop in income as a result of temporary unemployment, a disease following the covid-19 or the closure of a trade. For households, it is enough that one member's income has declined or disappeared to put the family at real risk and plunge it into a precarious situation. Attention for the most fragile is all the more important in the current economic context. It is known that it will take the poorest people more than ten years to recover from the economic impact of the pandemic. Minister, as you said, banks must stand together and assume their social role. Indeed, the role of banks, especially during this crisis, is to support families, self-employed people, businesses, horeca and culture that are now experiencing major difficulties. I am pleased to hear you say that you will include in your negotiations with the banking sector the extension of the moratorium on mortgages.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic362x.u22	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is indeed important to ensure that a distinction is made between viable and non-viable companies. I suppose this has always been the intention. When you talk to Febelfin about this protocol, I hope that you will agree in particular on how to deal with these viable companies. How's communication with these companies going? How will pension and savings buffers be looked at? How will we deal with additional costs that are currently being charged? That is what these poignant testimonies are about, and I expect that chalk lines will also be laid down in the protocol. I also expect that there will be a stick next to the root, as was noted by another colleague and was also asked by me. A second point on which I would like to comment is those nine months. You are right to say that a longer delay in payment than nine months requires additional capital buffers. I have also said that the suspension of dividends and the release of the countercyclical capital buffer of EUR 1 billion will make this possible. My question is therefore again whether you can see with Febelfin whether this is not possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic362x.u23	I have included all the elements mentioned here, both in terms of support measures and in terms of the consultations we have with the banks. The lines in this committee are clear, and I will be working on them in the next few days, in order to reach the best possible agreement with the banks.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic362x.u24	Madam President, Mr Vandenbroucke, for the 2019 revenue year, eight companies have benefited from the exemption from the payment of a system shipping tax for a total exemption of EUR 211,461,26. I would like to draw attention to the fact that this exemption is taxable in corporation tax. Data for the 2020 revenue year will not be available until the end of February. The FPS Finance does not have data on the evolution of employment resulting from this measure. I am ready to discuss with the sector the measure on system shipping, but of course always within the EU's restrictive rules on state aid.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic362x.u25	Thank you, Minister, for your efficient and clear answer, which contains everything I have asked for. It is very important that you have expressed your willingness to sit with the sector. As you know, the regions invest a lot of money in inland waterway transport. We see this as one of the levers to make our economy more sustainable. We also see, however, that a great deal of employment abroad is being drawn out because the wage costs in this sector are structurally higher than in other countries. The figures you give show that the tax measures taken so far are being used, but it does not seem to me to be the intended scale that we need to ensure a systematic re-flagging of the major inland waterway operators. Let's wait and see what we get out of this discussion, and I'll definitely get back to you on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic362x.u26	Minister, an earlier parliamentary question referred to the foreign e-sporters who are active in Belgium. According to your reply, they benefit from the scheme provided for in Article 17 of the OECD Model Convention, which obliges them to pay 18% of freeing corporate tax in Belgium. I wonder what the situation of Belgian e-sporters is, especially Belgian nationals who are linked to a football club, for example, with a contract of employment. Are they covered by the law on the tax status of paid sportsmen and women, which also allows them to benefit from an 80% exemption from the company's withholding tax?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic362x.u27	Mr Matheï, my answer is brief and clear. Belgian debtors of the company advance charge may also apply the exemption from the transfer of the company advance charge to the remuneration of their Belgian e-sporters, provided, of course, that all legal conditions are complied with.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic362x.u28	That is quite clear, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic362x.u29	Minister, in a recent IMF blog post, What is really new in fintech, which is based on the IMF-paper Financial Intermediation and Technology: What's Old, What's New? The International Monetary Fund has stated that online behaviour could enable financial institutions to calculate a much more accurate and reliable creditworthiness of a person than the traditional methods currently used.According to several IMF authors, the decision whether or not someone gets credit in the future may depend on income and debt, but also on online behaviour, such as a person's search history, his or her social contacts and online purchases. In any case, the authors see a major shift ahead and call on policy makers to support innovative fintech and to adapt the political and legal frameworks for it. Minister, what is your position on integrating people's digital behaviour in assessing their creditworthiness? Does the tax administration use data mining data on citizens' digital behaviour in the establishment and/or collection and recovery of taxes? Does the IRS have any plans to roll that out?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic362x.u30	Mr van der Donkt, I believe that we should welcome new technologies that can contribute to the better assessment of the creditworthiness of debtors. If additional information is used in risk assessment, this is a welcome development. Of course, it should be relevant information for the assessment of a credit risk and that relevance should be checked on a permanent basis. Moreover, that additional information should also be considered as additional to the classical assessment criteria with a view to increasing the effectiveness of the whole. My administration pays attention to the use of new technologies, such as data mining techniques, as part of its tax risk management. Those techniques are used to exploit the data, to arrive at the most efficient selection of the files to be checked. At the moment, the General Administration of Taxation does not, in principle, use data on citizens' digital behaviour in the establishment of the tax through data mining. Such data shall be used if the conduct contains evidence that it is not purely private activities and only in so far as it complies with privacy law.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic362x.u31	Thank you for your reply, Minister. We will have to continue to work on this in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic362x.u32	Mr Minister, sometimes questions are asked here which are mainly about the lack of communication of public services. People are surprised, often simple people, who suddenly notice that the corporate tax on their pensions is changing. Each year the rates and scales are adjusted by a royal decree. Last year many pensioners had to pay less corporate tax on their pensions, which means that they may now have to pay more for their personal income tax. Apparently there were many complaints from pensioners and the FPS Finance has therefore decided to adjust the corporate tax on pensions this year. It is a few euros net less. It is then said to be a zero operation because at the end of the year the set-off will follow which could even lead to a small refund. However, this has caused unrest again. A number of colleagues may have been contacted about this, depending on the number of interested parties on the subject. I do not think that pensioners should be expected to read royal decisions on the website of the FPS Finance, or to read the FPS Finance website at all. The Federal Pension Service even states that he himself was not informed until late by the FPS Finance. My questions are simple. Minister, will you confirm that further steps can be taken by the FPS Finance in the area of clarity and transparency? If so, what improvements can be made here?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic362x.u33	I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic362x.u34	Madam President, Minister, many pensioners had an unpleasant surprise when they paid their pensions. Instead of the increase they expected, they received a lower net amount in January than in the previous month. The government agreement does not, of course, provide for any reduction in pensions. It appears that this phenomenon is linked to a threshold effect, where the increase in the discount results in a decrease in the net pension. Even if there is a subsequent adjustment and the pension did not actually fall, the application of this prepayment gives the impression that the opposite is true. We know that there is no question of reducing pensions. It's a matter of timing. Nevertheless, the result felt is very unpleasant for the people concerned. In addition, the Federal Pension Service reported late information, which meant that the persons concerned could not be notified, the only communication being a message on the website. Minister, how many pensioners are involved? Do you confirm that this is a threshold effect solely related to the discount? Have corrective measures been planned? How can information be improved? What information do you expect for pensioners so that they/they are properly informed? What measures do you intend to take so that the next pension increases do not cause the same effect, where the gross increases but the net decreases?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic362x.u35	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, last year many pensioners complained that they had to pay extra taxes when they received their warning-extract from the tax on natural persons. In order to solve this problem, the professional discount has been adapted in order to align more closely with the tax actually due. For some people, this means that a higher amount of professional discount is withheld, resulting in a lower monthly net amount. I would like to point out that taxation itself is not increased, but it is only an attempt to ensure that pensioners do not have to pay a substantial surcharge in the final calculation of their tax, which poses a problematic question for many of them. Mrs Cornet, you are referring to the previous problem of a pension trap, which we have experienced. This problem has been solved in recent years by the Act of 5 April 2019 amending the Income Tax Code 1992 with regard to the tax provisions relating to the employment deal. A higher gross pension will never lead to a lower net pension at the end of the race. At present, no corrective action is planned. Unfortunately, I cannot give you any figures on the number of pensioners affected. The SFP may be able to inform you about this. Mr Ravyts, the key formula, the Annex 3 and the scales and farm levies are drawn up at the end of each year so as to take account as far as possible of the changes in tax legislation that have taken place during the year. As soon as they are finally approved, they will be made immediately and simultaneously available to the social secretariats, companies and the Federal Pension Service. Mr van der Donkt, at the time of reading your question, I had the impression that there was some confusion as to the interpretation of the consequences of various measures in the field of pensions. Firstly, measures have been taken on minimum pensions. They will be increased, as you rightly point out. It goes without saying that these increased minimum pensions for pensioners give rise to increased tax revenues in the area of direct taxation and in their use lead to an increase in indirect taxation through, inter alia, VAT and excise duties. In addition, there is the measure on the company tax on pensions, which I have just explained. The special reduction for pensions used for the calculation of the farm tax on pensions applies from the 2021 income year, which in many cases has slightly increased the farm tax on pensions. This increase should ensure that fewer pensioners are still liable for an important additional amount of tax as a result of the establishment of the tax on personal property. After all, many pensioners were faced with the problem of having to pay a large amount at one time. Both the tax administration and the pension administration have recently received a lot of complaints about this. So we tried to solve that in that way. One measure has nothing to do with the other. I understand, of course, the possible confusion. The 35% payback effects, which you cite in your question, should therefore not be linked to the increase in the rates in the farm levy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic362x.u36	It is indeed a well-meaning measure, but in life it is also about perception. I understand, of course, that many pensioners want to avoid post payments. I also understand that there is nothing wrong with the provision of information and that the social secretariats and the Federal Pensions Service were immediately informed. Well, that's a little disputed by the Federal Pension Service. We hope that this will be communicated in an even better way over the next few years.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic362x.u37	I would like to thank the Minister for his clear answer, which has eliminated the confusion that has arisen.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic362x.u38	Minister, thank you for your answers. I had mixed two questions and I thank you for the clarification you made. I hear that taxation has not changed. As far as the number of people affected is concerned, it is interesting and important for you to know the exact number of people affected so as to improve the communication because it only originates from the website and it is obviously too short. We need to communicate better, you mentioned it. If the intention is to better adapt the discount to the pension actually received, for some pensioners, each euro counts and it is important to calculate and inform them as accurately as possible. I stress the quality and quantity of information that is disseminated.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic362x.u39	Madam President, Minister, Belfius recently addressed an advertising campaign to the so-called wealth customers. We read in it that Belfius has such exclusive treatment that its excellence can be guaranteed on a daily basis. This also implies that the less well-off cannot count on a daily excellent service. That may make us doubt who the "us" in Belfius refers to. Belfius is today in the hands of the government for 100 %. Public enterprises can be expected to provide and communicate services in a socially responsible manner. Showing off an exclusive treatment of wealth customers, who can only belong to the club at the invitation of the bank, is not an example of corporate social responsibility. That is why I have the following questions for you. Firstly, do you find it ethically justified that a state bank has an exclusive offer for the most rich and communicates about it in the press in such a way? If not, would you like to work on a code of conduct that would encourage Belfius to pursue a policy consistent with your values? If so, where is the border for you? Secondly, do you believe that a bank in the hands of the government should excel in its pursuit of inclusiveness rather than exclusivity? Since this government wants to work on a basic banking service, that demand seems appropriate. Finally, are you prepared to consider drawing up a management agreement with Belfius that sets high quality standards in terms of services, personnel policy, financial prudence and sustainability? Since it would be a bad policy to sell the Belfius shares in the current financial situation, and Belgium will thus be the sole shareholder for the foreseeable future, that question also seems appropriate to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic362x.u40	Madam President, Mr Vanbesien, Belfius is and will be a universal and inclusive bank insurer offering services to all customer segments, regardless of their assets. An anchor in all segments of the Belgian economy is of course one of the strategic pillars of Belfius. The estimated market shares of Belfius for 2020 in its long-term loan portfolio illustrate the balanced efforts made by Belfius for all actors in Belgian society: 14% of residential loans, 17% of loans to SMEs and the liberal professions, 16.5% of loans to enterprises and 66% of financing files from local authorities. Which services are offered to which customers, of course, depends on the needs and concrete added value. This, of course, differs from one segment to another. The way Belfius provides services to customers is highly appreciated. In 2020 the customer satisfaction score was 95.82 %. There were no significant differences between the segments, indicating that all customers, regardless of their assets, appreciate the service provided by Belfius. Apart from the basic banking services provided by law, Belfius goes even further than other banks in the provision of services to vulnerable groups. For example, Belfius explicitly takes into account older customers when charging payments, who sometimes have insufficient basic knowledge to carry out their banking operations digitally. Belfius is aware that as a bank in the hands of the Belgian government, it has an exemplary role to play in providing excellent services, financial prudence and sustainability. Thanks to financial solidarity, the bank also played a role during the corona crisis in delaying payments for loans to private customers, entrepreneurs and businesses. The bank's strategy is approved by the Board of Directors, which also includes independent directors nominated by the Belgian government as shareholders. In addition, the FPIM is informed at least once a year about the strategy by the Chairman of the Belfius Management Board and the CEO.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic362x.u41	Minister, Belfius is a bank owned by the government at 100% and will remain so for a while. That separates her from the commercial banks. That may be a huge asset for the federal government, but today little is done with it. At present, there is little difference between Belfius and commercial banks. Together, we all need to think very carefully about how we can better use Belfius as a public bank in order to strengthen or help achieve a number of government objectives. Once again, you have not replied to the management agreement. There was a recent discussion on an opinion from the Court of Auditors to conclude a management agreement with a number of nuclear institutions. During that discussion, it was said that this opinion could actually be extended to a number of other public institutions which do not yet have such an agreement. Belfius is perhaps a good candidate for this? We are certainly going to take a closer look at that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic362x.u42	Minister, on 5 January the Fluxys Group announced that it had taken over 27% of the shares in TBG, the third largest natural gas network operator in Brazil. This is Fluxys' first participation in a pipeline network outside the EU, which in no way benefits the supply of the Belgian or European energy market. Fluxys says that "long-term natural gas in Belgium and Europe is a ending story." It seems to me that in the long term natural gas should be a long-term story everywhere. Investing in fossil fuel infrastructure creates a dangerous path dependency and incentives to preserve and expand the use of fossil fuels. The FPIM holds more than 2% of the shares in the Fluxys group. The government agreement states that the FPIM will develop a sustainable and ambitious investment strategy and will gradually withdraw from fossil fuel investments. According to the government agreement, by 2030, the federal state and its institutions must have fully withdrawn from companies that emit intensive greenhouse gases and do not actively engage in the energy transition. I have three questions for you, Minister. Firstly, is FPIM's participation in the Fluxys Group, according to your assessment, compatible with the coalition agreement, as Fluxys announces that part of its investment strategy is to provide infrastructure for countries with increasing demand for fossil fuels? If not, would it be desirable for the FPIM to withdraw from the Fluxys group? If so, how do you see the compatibility with the coalition agreement? Secondly, many municipalities, which are shareholders of Fluxys, were not aware of this turn of events in the policy of the Fluxys group. Was the FPIM aware of the plan to invest in TBG? If so, what is the FPIM's assessment of the desirability of the investment? Has the FPIM assessed the readmission agreement in the light of the government's ambitions? Has the FPIM raised any objections and what was the reaction of the Fluxys group? In the event that the FPIM does not dispose of its shares, will the FPIM work for Fluxys to communicate its policy more transparently to the shareholders? Thirdly, how does the FPIM's coordinated, sustainable and ambitious investment and investment strategy work out in accordance with the government agreement? Will this strategy provide for FPIM to take its role as shareholder more actively?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic362x.u43	Mr Vanbesien, for your introduction, I would like to inform you that, after long consultation with the representatives of the municipalities united in Publigas and after informing the then Energy Minister, Mr Wathelet, the FPIM decided to invest in Fluxys NV at the end of 2012. The FPIM has an administrative mandate in the nv Fluxys, unlike the nv Fluxys Belgium, where two government commissioners have been appointed. We obtained the following answers from the FPIM about Fluxys nv's investment in TBG. Firstly, development outside Europe has been a strategic objective of Fluxys NV for many years. This was recently confirmed in the context of the revision of the annual strategic plan by the governing bodies, where the FPIM sits on the board of directors as a minority shareholder with a seat. The aim is to enable the company to continue its growth in regions where markets are less mature and energy needs are growing sharply. This does not ignore the ambition of decarbonisation and the climate objectives. It is increasingly assumed that natural gas will retain a place in the energy transition to ensure the security of energy supply for businesses and citizens as a transition technology. In this context, Fluxys can export its know-how, in particular in terms of operational excellence and in terms of its experience as a transmission system operator, which offers non-discriminatory transport services for the benefit of consumers. This experience is reflected in the progress already made in Belgium and Europe, with a view to a gradual switch from natural gas networks to low-carbon energy. Like the efforts and projects carried out in Belgium in the context of the energy transition, Fluxys could also be a lever outside Europe to meet climate objectives. We therefore see no contradiction here between the government agreement, the role of Fluxys Belgium in the energy transition and Fluxys nv projects outside Europe. We therefore believe that these projects should not lead to a specific evaluation of the desirability of FPIM participation in Fluxys nv. As I mentioned earlier, the FPIM has a representative on the Management Board, who therefore had the information on the investment in TBG. It was handled in all discretion until the transaction was concluded. It took into account the necessary confidentiality associated with such an operation, involving strategic, commercial and financial interests. As regards the FPIM and the Energy and Utilities Pillar, the Deep Dive on this Pillar was adopted by the Governing Board in 2020 and the FPIM is fully engaged in its implementation. One of the priority sub-sectors of the Pillar concerns the development of hydrogen as part of the energy mix. In this context, Fluxys could play an important role in the transport of green hydrogen.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic362x.u44	Thank you, Minister, for this comprehensive answer. I'm not entirely convinced. The largest shareholders of Fluxys are the municipalities. Many mayors, including the then mayor of De Pinte, have signed the mayor's agreement. In an indirect and, above all, untransparent way, all these local authorities are now faced with an investment in which they participate and which is at odds with the ambition of that mayor's covenant. This is, of course, a discussion for a different level of government, but through the FPIM we are also involved and we have the same problem. This shows the importance that the FPIM will have to be able to take up its role as shareholder in an active manner if we are to fulfil the ambitions of the government agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic362x.u45	Minister, the corona crisis has made homework compulsory. This also affects frontier workers, because their income depends on the place where they work. In order to provide a solution, agreements were concluded with neighbouring countries, which run until 31 March. However, we must consider what can be done after the corona crisis, because homework will also change the situation in the working world. Firstly, are you considering extending the agreements that run until 31 March, given the pandemic situation? Secondly, have you already started talks with neighbouring countries to ensure that, even after the corona crisis, frontier workers are taxed in spite of homework as before? Thirdly, where are the negotiations with the Netherlands specifically on the new double taxation treaty? In addition, does the corona crisis have an impact on those negotiations? Finally, according to the measures in force, frontier workers must submit homework data. Can it not be interesting to develop and publish a model form for this purpose, so that there is no confusion about this at the time of the verification of the declarations for the 2021 tax year? A model form could contribute to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic362x.u46	Madam Chair, Minister, since the subject has already been discussed with the Minister, I refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic362x.u47	Madam Chair, Minister, my question is very practical. In recent days, several Belgian citizens working in Luxembourg companies have given me amazing information. Their employers claim that the decision to lift the limit of 24 days of telework per year would only be effective from 13 March 2020. According to these employers, two tax periods should be distinguished: the first "pre-covid" from 1 January to 13 March 2020 and the second "covid" from 14 March 2020 to 31 December 2020. The number of days of telework being annual (calendar), according to them it is necessary to apply a pro rata temporis a posteriori on the number of days of telework maximum annual authorized fiscally. The maximum number of teleworking days without tax impact would be five days for the "pre-covid" period. On this basis, any worker domiciled in Belgium who exceeded five teleworking days during the "pre-covid" period is in tax offence and, as a result, the salary must no longer be taxed in the country of work (Luxembourg), but in the country of residence (Belgium), as if the employee had exceeded the 24 days of telework in a normal year. Minister, I hope that the interpretation that some employers are making is wrong and that you will quickly clarify this situation. To impose a pro rata a posteriori is to change the right a posteriori. It doesn't make sense. Do you confirm that this interpretation is false and that no pro rata will be considered by the Belgian tax administration with regard to telework days in 2020, that no period distinction will be considered for 2020 and that no Belgian citizen who has teleworked more than five days between 1 January 2020 and 14 March 2020 will be considered to have exceeded the number of days allowed to telework in Belgium? The question is important, Minister. You should know that in some municipalities 60% of the working population works in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. I therefore look forward to your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic362x.u48	For the first question, that of Mr Laaouej, we can confirm that the four agreements concluded with France, the Netherlands, Germany and Luxembourg have recently been extended until 31 March 2021. These four amicable agreements apply only to the income of dependent professionals referred to in Article 15(1) of the Conventions. The administration published on its website detailed explanations of the application of each of the four agreements. A border regime in the conventional sense exists only for certain residents of the French border area engaged in salaried activity in the Belgian border area. These frontier workers benefit from a special regime, namely taxation in their State of residence, in this case France. Belgian residents no longer benefit from such a special scheme. Border regimes have also been abolished in our treaty relations with the Netherlands and Germany. The term "cross-border worker" is not defined in the conventions but generally refers to a resident of a State who engages in an employed activity in another State, in principle neighbouring. These frontier workers are generally taxable in the State in which they work. Covid-19 amicable agreements apply to cross-border workers. The covid-19 agreement with France also confirms that borderers can continue to benefit from the special regime. Mr Matheï, until now there has been no consultation with the neighbouring countries concerned on a possible extension of the agreements on homework. Depending on the evolution of the health crisis, a further extension will be envisaged in the foreseeable future. Following the corona crisis and after the conclusion of the so-called COVID-19 agreements, the existing rules of the double taxation treaties in question will be fully applicable again. In accordance with Article 15 (1) of the OECD Model Convention and most of the conventions concluded by Belgium, the remuneration of a worker may be taxed in the State of employment, i.e. in the State where he is physically present in order to pursue his professional activity. During the days of work from home, the wage earner is physically present in his State of residence and thus is the State competent to tax the remuneration relating to the home working days. In this respect, Belgium follows the international rules set out in the OECD Model Convention. There are currently no plans to deviate from those rules. Negotiations with the Netherlands have not yet been resumed. Given the confidential nature of the negotiations, I can only inform you that they are intended to conclude a completely new treaty between Belgium and the Netherlands. The corona crisis in itself does not prevent the continuation of negotiations, but does not make the situation any easier. As far as your question on the model forms is concerned, I can tell you that workers who wish to remain taxed in the country where they normally carry out their activities should be able to submit a certificate from the employer which clearly shows which home working days are due to COOVID-19 and which are not. The administration wants to leave employers the freedom to draw up these certificates. Therefore, it does not provide for a mandatory model attestation, but has listed the necessary elements to be included in the certificate in circular 2020/C/81 concerning the FAQ COVID-19 and cross-border employment of 17 July 2020. Mr Piedboeuf and Mr Arens, as far as your questions concerning Luxembourg workers are concerned, there is no question of a pre-covid and covid tax period. In accordance with the amicable agreement of 2015 on the application of Article 15 of the Belgian-Luxembourg Convention on the prevention of double taxation, a resident worker of Belgium who is habitually employed on Luxembourg territory remains fully taxable in Luxembourg if he is physically present in Belgium or in a third State for employment there for a maximum of 24 days during the taxable period. Following the agreement reached and currently extended until 31 March 2021 in the context of the fight against the covid-19 pandemic, the days on which employment was carried out at home, solely because of the measures taken to combat the pandemic, do not take place in the count of those 24 days. During the period from 1 January to 31 December 2020, the days of telework taken into consideration in determining whether the 24 day threshold is crossed will be only those that are foreign to the covid measures. This is the case, for example, of the telework days already provided for in the employment contract, irrespective of the covid measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic362x.u49	Mr Laaouej is absent and could therefore put his question. 55012331C not set. Thank you, Minister, for your reply to Mr Laaouej. Now the replies will follow.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic362x.u50	Madam President, Minister, thank you for the answer. As regards the agreements with neighbouring countries, I have heard that, when the pandemic will have a further effect, it is being considered to sit around the table and talk about a possible extension. We will have to wait and see. For the period after corona, you cite that the international rules of law apply and that they will also be applied. However, in an international context too, it may be considered to re-evaluate the concept of 'homework' in one way or another in the period after corona. That element could perhaps be put forward by us in the international debate. Finally, on homework certificates, I fully understand that the circular lists the necessary entries. Perhaps it would be interesting for user-friendliness and service, as well as for frontier workers and their employers to put this into a non-compulsory model so that it can be applied in a practical but also user-friendly way.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic362x.u51	Minister, I'm sorry, but I think you didn't understand my question. For employees, the situation is very clear, as is the agreement and the measures taken with the Grand Duchy. The problem lies in those who enjoy, in particular, the status of an employee by being a director of a company or in those who carry on an activity other than that of an employee and who are usually taxed in the Grand Duchy. From the moment they were forced to telework on the recommendation of the Luxembourg and Belgian States, they teleworked in Belgium. Therefore, I would like to know whether they will be subject to the same standards as employees and whether you could send a circular to the tax administration so that it does not again ask for several proofs from these workers who are not employees concerned by the preventive double taxation agreement. This is really something very specific, but it affects many workers with dual status or who are independent in the Grand Duchy. Secondly, you have already answered me on this subject, but I believe that the administration should be well aware of the need for different tax controls for the 2020 financial year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic362x.u52	Now that I read the question again, I see that we have not answered it. I'll make sure it's checked and give feedback as soon as possible, Mr. Piedboeuf.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic362x.u53	Madam President, the Benelux Council meets on Friday to finalize a recommendation to the Dutch, Belgian and Luxembourg governments, covering all the points relating to employees and self-employed persons. This recommendation, which will come to you, will enable the three Finance Ministers to have a clear vision and perhaps reflect on changes in legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic362x.u54	Här Minister, Ich bin zufrieden matte Ärer Äntwert. I will translate because I speak Luxembourg too. I am pleased with your answer. I wish that this language could also be used in the federal Parliament at times. As I understand it, you have responded to Mr Benoît Piedboeuf, who is a friend and colleague of the province of Luxembourg. He does not speak Luxembourg but is learning it, I know. There is no problem for the pre-covid period and the covid period. The 24 days are taken in a global way. So, a big thank you. That is why I told you in Luxembourg that I was satisfied with your answer. I repeat that we are waiting for you to visit our region in order to better explain the situation we are experiencing. The next question I will ask you earlier will show you that a field visit is really very important.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic362x.u55	Madam President, Minister, under the previous legislature, in May 2019, to be precise, the House adopted a resolution aimed at clarifying and repealing the pension scheme granted to former Belgian military collaborators of the German national socialist regime during the Second World War. In 2017, there were still 2,800 beneficiaries in Belgium of a military pension paid by the German State. In parallel with these beneficiaries, nine or ten people, former employees living in Belgium, continue to receive a pension from the German State, after their involvement in the Wehrmacht or even worse in the SS. The money is paid as compensation for personal injury incurred for taking up arms for Hitler. In addition to the moral problem and the legal problem presented by this situation, these revenues paid to former employees are not covered by the Belgian tax authorities. Since the submission of my question at the beginning of January, the Christian Democrat MP, Pieter Omtzigt, has obtained from the Dutch Secretary of State for Finance the crucial information according to which Germany had finally communicated to the Dutch tax services the list of persons who benefit from these pensions with the amounts for the period 2015 to 2019. Minister, could you please tell me what steps your department has taken to find out the list of persons to whom these pensions are paid? Are you in contact with your German counterpart on this issue? Is the FPS Finance working with the German tax services to advance on an exchange of information on this subject?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic362x.u56	Ladies and gentlemen, the exchange of data takes place on the basis of the Convention on the Prevention of Double Taxation between Belgium and Germany, signed on 11 April 1967. EU Directive 2011/16 has a tax purpose. Information on pensions from Germany is sent in bulk. If, as is also the case here, the type of activities which give rise to the pension is not fiscally relevant, no information is exchanged on the type of activities. For the exchange of information other than fiscally relevant, however, the above-mentioned legal bases do not provide a legal basis. For the sake of completeness, I would also point out that the data protection rules are also applicable here. Requests for non-tax information must therefore be made, not through tax channels, but through channels established for that purpose. In terms of principles, the Belgian-German Convention on the Prevention of Double Taxation grants Germany the right to impose the pensions in question, which are granted under German social legislation. These pensions, which are tax-free in Belgium, only help to fix the rate of taxation of any other taxable income enjoyed by the persons concerned. They can also be used to determine the additional taxes on the tax of natural persons imposed by the municipalities.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic362x.u57	Minister, I am surprised and even disappointed by your answer. Indeed, it is exactly the same response that the tax services gave at the hearings prior to the adoption of the resolution which was voted on in Parliament on this problem of pensions, in connection with what the German ambassador also said. But today, as I have reminded you, there is a new development. The German tax services have sent the Dutch tax services a list of the beneficiaries of these pensions so that there is a cross-reference of the data to see if there is no tax injustice, and to examine the possibility of taxing these pensions, which are paid, sometimes, to people who have betrayed their country. I will end my reply by telling you that what is deeply immoral in this system is that today, victims of war, such as deportees to compulsory work, are taxed in Belgium. They receive an allowance of 40 euros gross and receive only 32 euros net. With your German colleague, you need to make more efforts to get this list, cross it and see if there is any proven tax injustice.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic362x.u58	Minister, like my colleague, I must express my deep regret at your answers. I understand that you are taking refuge behind international conventions and European directives and that, in doing so, you are ignoring new developments in this matter, as well as this famous motion for a resolution that was adopted almost unanimously in 2019. I think only the N-VA and the Vlaams Belang had opposed each other. Your party had therefore supported this text because it felt, like ours, that this system was totally unfair, immoral and in violation of our duty to remember, among other things. The call I make to you today is to be really proactive in this matter. Like my colleague Lacroix, I note that the Ministers for Foreign Affairs, Justice and, today, Finance are turning the ball, while at the German level, the politicians are assuming their responsibilities. Our motion for a resolution asked the government to inform the Länder about the judicial past of the persons who would receive these pensions – the Minister of Justice has made a commitment to this – but also to ask the authorities of North Rhine-Westphalia for all the information that could make it clear about these pensions. That is a commitment that you should make as Minister of Finance. So I have a great regret about that. I am very pleased to have my colleague Lacroix with me, since I have made a request to the Conference of Presidents, in view of the impossibility at the level of the German Parliament to obtain a parliamentary majority, to set up a scientific committee to carry out this data-crossing work. This request was refused to me by the Conference of Presidents. If Mr. Lacroix could support this request with his group leader, it would be a very good thing to finally move this issue forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic362x.u59	Minister, this question concerns a slightly less loaded issue, namely the FPIM's transformation fund. Since the submission of the question, communication has already been made on the establishment and purpose of the transformation fund. The aim is to help key companies with equity-like tools to support the solvency that came under pressure from the covid crisis. That's what the coalition agreement says. The aim is to expand the fund to include institutional investors and regional public investment companies. It was also agreed to focus a significant part of the investment on the ecological transition. Mr President, what progress has been made, firstly, with the establishment of the fund? At the end of last week we heard the communication from the government, but perhaps you could explain where we stand today and what the timing is. Secondly, were the investment criteria of the fund, such as the size of the undertaking concerned and the form and extent of the aid already determined? If so, what are the criteria? If not, when can we expect these criteria? Thirdly, have institutional investors and regional public investment companies already decided to join the fund? If so, which one? If not, what are the prospects and strategy to convince them? Fourthly, what does FPIM fall under the definition of "ecological transition"? For example, will the European taxonomy regulation be applied to this? Finally, would it be a good idea for private investors to participate in the fund in one way or another? If so, how could this be organised?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic362x.u60	Minister, in your policy statement, you stated that in 2021 and 2022 you will allocate EUR 500 million and 250 million respectively to the transformation fund, which will be managed by the FPIM. As has already been explained by Mr Vanbesien, the transformation fund will support crucial companies, strengthen their solvency and help them reorient themselves in the light of the long-term challenges we face, such as digitisation and the fight against climate change. I have already asked you about this in a previous discussion, and some of these questions are now coming back. Minister, has FPIM taken steps towards the creation of the Transformation Fund? If so, which one? Has there been any consultation with the regional investment companies about this fund? If so, what is agreed? How will cooperation be organised? If not, when will FPIM be in conjunction with the investment companies? What is the scope of the investment policy of that transformation fund? What criteria will be set? How are the criteria for combating climate change and digitalisation defined? Will the criteria used by the European Commission be taken into account for this purpose?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic362x.u61	Question No 55013592C by Mr Gilles Vanden Burre is not applicable.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic362x.u62	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, once the new government had taken office, the FPIM and my cabinet discussed the creation of the transformation fund promised in the government agreement. Last Friday, the government agreed and approved this transformation fund, which consists of two shutters. First, there is a EUR 500 million recovery package with a "solvency" envelope to provide short-term support to companies affected by the covid-19 crisis and a "relaunch" envelope to make longer-term investments in a sustainable economy, focusing in particular on the "be mobile, be inclusive, be productive, be digital" theme of the Belgian recovery plan. This component will be carried out in the form of a subsidiary of the SFPI. There is then a €250 million transition component that will focus on combating climate change and the ecological transition of the Belgian economy. This fund will focus on the "be sustainable" theme of the Belgian recovery plan. It will be organised via an investment fund which, after the start-up phase through the financing of the SFPI and institutional investors, can, in a second phase, be open to investors from the general public in order to activate savings. The modalities of this opening will be discussed at a later stage. The part of solvency within the relay subsidiary will work with the various regional investment companies, as we see that the regions themselves are taking initiatives in the area of solvency. If necessary, a fourth element will be set up in the solvency section to support and/or strengthen the effectiveness of the three regional initiatives and, above all, not to compete with them. It is not an ambition to limit itself to specific sectors. So there is a broad will to help companies that have suffered under the covid crisis, but remain viable. Rather, it would be the intention to apply certain criteria for excluding sectors that a government should not support. The main criteria for the solvency initiative will depend on the initiatives of regional investment companies. For the relay, the solvency envelope will be reinvested in the longer term over time, as the funds temporarily used in the solvency fund will be recovered. For example, the financing temporarily used to combat the crisis will also be able to generate and create an additional leverage for long-term relance, resulting in the full amount of EUR 500 million being invested through the relay subsidiary. The aim of the transition is to support Belgian companies and to help them reorient themselves in the light of the long-term climate and environmental challenges. It is up to the fund manager who will be selected to determine the companies and sectors that will have the greatest impact to achieve the goal set. The choice and ticket of investments will be based on the EU taxonomy and the ESG standards recommended by the EU. This is a commitment within the European Green Deal and will be in line with the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures. In terms of the instruments used, for all initiatives, it will be a matter of connecting to equity and quasi-equities, as the SFPI usually does, and not of replacing the banking sector. Madam President, to sum up, the structure is divided into two elements: a relay part and a transition part. In the relay part there is also the solvency part, but in the long term these funds will be reinvested in the relay so that we can fully deploy the EUR 750 million.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic362x.u63	Minister, this transformation fund seems to us to be a very important instrument for the coming years. It's also very ambitious. It will help our country and our companies in the ecological transformation and in the relance after the corona crisis. That is why it is also important to follow it closely and to check that it is effectively moving in the planned direction. I therefore hope that we here in Parliament will have regular feedback on progress in implementing the fund.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic362x.u64	Mr Minister, this dossier will indeed be prosecuted, which seems clear to me. It's an important file. We will monitor this very closely from the opposition and will ask you at the appropriate time for a state of affairs. Anyway, you're also on the right track here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic362x.u65	Madam President, Minister, the Belgians are increasingly investing in sustainable development. Echo drew this conclusion from his analysis of Belgian investments in 2020. Nearly one in two new investments in the bank cited by the article are of this nature. However, are banks themselves sustainable? What are their assets made up of? This growing attention to sustainable products and banks must be able to meet clear criteria. This implies that banks are able to assess the sustainability of their portfolio to be transparent to potential customers. The issue is therefore also that this assessment is comparable. At the European level, consideration is being given to better classifying products and banking establishments. In November, Febelfin stated that "in the same way as there are uniform European standards for financial accounting, we must be able to find standards for climate accounting". While waiting for a European standard, the banks themselves engage in the production of standards, but they vary according to the institutions and sometimes even prove to be competing. Thus, the PCAF standard was launched by about 15 establishments, thus co-existing with other standards. The government is committed to ensuring that the banking and insurance sector becomes transparent to the consumer. With this in mind, Minister, can you tell me how you look at these standard-setting initiatives in the banking sector? How do you plan to encourage banks to account for their greenhouse gas emissions? Do you intend to support harmonisation of standards and an evaluation of bank portfolios? Finally, what initiatives have you taken or intend to take to improve transparency and thus the possibility for consumers to have complete and comparable information?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic362x.u66	Madam President, Mrs Cornet, many financial institutions already rely on a very restrictive policy when it comes to financing sectors with a high climate impact, such as carbon. These policies are applicable to a particularly sustainable range of products as well as to all banking activities such as lending and other services. The assessment of their climate impact is also a subject on the agenda of the revision of the label "Towards Sustainability". At the European and international levels, several initiatives exist to help financial institutions bring their loan and investment portfolios into line with the objectives of the Paris Agreements. Many Belgian financial institutions are already using methodologies that measure different aspects of transition and alignment in Paris. If harmonisation were to become necessary, it should at least be developed at European level as part of the EU's sustainable finance programme. As regards the provision of non-financial information by companies, as was the case with the transposition of EU Directive 2014/95 on the publication of non-financial and diversity-related information, it is primarily for the Minister of Economy to take the necessary initiatives in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic362x.u67	Minister, thank you for your answers. I will, of course, ask the same question to the Minister of Economy. I understand that, from your point of view, the initiative must come from the European level. But obviously, the banks themselves are organizing themselves to measure their sustainability. Initiatives are therefore being taken in this direction and it may be interesting to support them. Rather, the purpose of my question was to encourage you to consider how to encourage this objective of measuring the sustainability of banks in our country. In any case, I invite you to move this issue forward in your contacts at European level because, as you say, this is probably the best place to harmonise, even if we must not forget the work to be done in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic362x.u68	Minister, I have already used the updated audit to ask you a question. Now I have a question on other chapters of the audit, in particular on the so-called golden visas. There is a potential shortcut for selling foreign residence permits to wealthy Belgian tax liabilities. That may be one of the reasons why great abilities can still be hidden. The AABBI also noted that since 2015, almost 2,000 Belgian taxpayers have moved their tax residence to Cyprus, Malta or even the United Arab Emirates. A few years ago, the OECD also detected almost 100 systems in which, in some countries, a residence permit or citizenship can be obtained only for payment or through a large local investment. In this way, the international OECD standard for the automatic exchange of financial data can be avoided. In the case of fraud investigations, double taxation treaties or cooperation agreements are referred to. How do you respond to the recommendations of the Court of Auditors on this matter? The Court of Auditors states that Belgium has received around 45,000 information on residence fraud for the year 2016 about taxpayers who do not appear to be a Belgian tax resident, involving 343 high-net-worth individuals, with a capital of more than 1 million euros. In March 2020, three dossiers to be examined were selected after further risk analysis. In the meantime, are there more recent data than those on which the Court of Auditors has based itself? Do you have figures and further information on the extent of the phenomenon of the use of these golden visas by Belgian taxpayers?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic362x.u69	The FBI is particularly vigilant on the escape routes related to the common standard on transparency and exchange of information on financial accounts in tax matters or CRS. It continually adapts its analysis according to the results obtained in the field. The use of the golden visa or residence fraud is possible avoidance. If someone moves in this way, that person can escape the international OECD standard for automatic financial data exchange. In a fraud investigation, we then fall back on double taxation treaties or cooperation agreements. However, the screening of all rooms to risk destinations leads to few cases of fraud. In the files examined, more than 90% of its economic interests were actually transferred to that country. However, the Court of Auditors' report contains useful recommendations for the fight against fraud which we can follow. In implementation of the coalition agreement and my policy statement, a cell is dedicated to high-net-worth individuals within my administration set up. This particular cell is an analytical and strategic cell responsible for managing and analysing the risks of tax fraud by setting up complex international private constructions and loopholes, avoiding transparency rules such as the CRS or by using an address abroad. New analyses and investigations are also underway to identify possible circumventions through the use of, for example, insurance contracts or capitalization products, which are not communicated through the CRS.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic362x.u70	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. Especially the last part of your answer that there is a cell for this particular form of fraud in being set up is interesting. I will question you about this in the coming months and probably years.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic362x.u71	Madam President, Minister, on 10 December last I asked you whether any solutions had been found with the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg concerning the payment of the compensation fund for the Belgian communes in which frontier workers reside. You replied that your Luxembourg counterpart had agreed to lift his objection to financial compensation for 2019 and 2020. You also agreed with him to evaluate the existing agreement to stabilize the issue in the long term – in the sense, I hope, of a sustainability of the current mechanism. Minister, have the financial compensations for 2019 and 2020 been paid by the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg? I think that is the case, since my question was tabled some time ago. Have negotiations with your Luxembourg counterpart on the sustainability of this mechanism started? If not, when will they begin? What are the proposals of your Luxembourg counterpart in this regard? Is your goal good to maintain the current mechanism? I stress very much the maintenance of the current mechanism. Are you ready to meet the mayors of Arlon, am Arelerland? I will still invite a mayor of Gaume, at least colleague Benoît Piedboeuf, to defend this important issue together.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic362x.u72	Madam President, Mr Arens, every time you ask me a question, I receive an invitation to visit the region. It seems to me that I have already received five or six. Of course, one day, and I hope soon enough, I will respond and visit your commune and your region. Following my bilateral visit to Luxembourg in early December, I asked my administration to continue preparing all possible options in this matter. Belgium is prepared to listen to and evaluate the Luxembourg proposals. It will also be examined whether other valid alternatives exist to replace the current clearing mechanism and to revise the set-off. In this process, I naturally appreciate all possible contributions from the relevant stakeholders. My hope and objective is to reach an agreement on this matter with Luxembourg, particularly in view of the 100th anniversary of the Belgian-Luxembourg Economic Union. I hope to reach an agreement as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic362x.u73	Minister, thank you for your answer. But I continue to stress the need to maintain the current mechanism. Indeed, when we consider the evolution of the case with our French friends, we realize that a completely different mechanism is in the process of being put in place. However, this new mechanism would not really help our communes. When one is the mayor of a commune in which 60% of the working population works in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, it is known that this section of the population does not participate, through the tax of natural persons, in the financing of the shares in the commune, which becomes unmanageable. I would therefore like to insist that the current mechanism be maintained.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic362x.u74	If you are invited to Luxembourg, you will certainly be invited to Koksijde-Oostduinkerke to enjoy the beautiful coast, the sea, the wonderful shrimps and nature. This brings me to the theme of the day, nature, green bonds and green policy. Minister, Flemish and green is my personal motive, and I believe that a nationalist is by definition also an ecologist. By definition, anyone who cherishes his culture also cherishes his environment. So we need to look at how to anchor this green policy and the question is how to do that. When it comes to green policy, there is always the question of how to finance it in a certain and firm way. Without financial stability, the environmental challenge cannot be financed. There is a proposal from the European Commission to sign green bonds to finance the green policy. That dossier has been going on for years and, for example, the German ecologists were at some point absolutely opposed to it today because they felt that it threatened to undermine financial stability. Now it is on the table again, with the European Recovery Fund of 750 billion. We want to finance 30% of this through these federations. We had an exchange of views on this matter in Parliament, and the Ambassador of the Permanent Representation said that it was not really clear what Belgium was thinking about it. What is your opinion, Minister? Have we reached a position yet? What criteria do we use in this dossier?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic362x.u75	Minister, the European Commission has been examining for some time the possibility of a legislative initiative for an EU standard on green bonds. Last year, there was a public consultation on the renewed sustainable financing strategy and a targeted consultation on the creation of an EU Green Bond Standard, building on the work of a number of technicians. Following the December summit, the European Commission was asked to make a legal proposal for such a standard by June. Belgium would not have taken a position on this matter. Encouraged by the growing interest of investors in assets to finance environmentally friendly spending, this market has grown rapidly in recent years. There is also the reality of the 750 billion and its financing. Such an EU Green Bond Standard should become a practical and safe financial instrument so that investment in the economy creates environmental impacts that meet climate and other long-term environmental objectives. The EU Green Bond Standard will inevitably require funded green investments to follow taxonomy criteria. In addition, the standard requirements will be created for issuers to publish their Green Bond Framework, allocation, impact reporting and................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... What is the status of the Belgian position on this matter? What is your position on the EU Green Bond Standard and on the substantive requirements I have outlined, including on the consistency of the economic activities to be financed with EU taxonomy?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic362x.u76	Mr Loones, I will be delighted to respond to your invitation. In the meantime, I'll come to the questions. At this stage, Belgium is evaluating the European Commission's thinking in the context of the Member States' expert group on sustainable financing. Belgium has welcomed both the plan to introduce European standards and the report by experts on EU green bonds. According to current plans, the EU Green Bond Standard is a framework that will be able to be used on a voluntary basis. It allows for a European reference framework and a labelling of European green bonds. Greenwashing, using green bonds to finance non-green or unsustainable practices, will be avoided at all costs. This approach will lead to greater transparency in market practices and will create a real level playing field. It will also help develop the green bond market. In line with the European taxonomy for sustainable activities, the draft European standard proposed by the technical expert group ensures the coherence of the action plan at European level. The percentage of activities financed that will have to meet the taxonomy criteria has not yet been established. However, green bonds will have to make a substantial contribution to the EU taxonomy's environmental objectives without causing any additional damage to another objective. The EU Green Bond Standard Project requires the publication of relevant information during, but also after, the issue, such as information on the allocation of the raised capital, and a report on the impact of the green bond. The role of the financial sector is crucial, as is the stability of the financial system. Support for the green transition must always take place with regard to financial and systemic risks in order to avoid the creation of green bubbles.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic362x.u77	Minister, it is good of you to accept the invitation. Let's make them very concrete. On February 14th we always have a hug in the sea. You're lucky. Because of corona, that dive was postponed again this year. Maybe we can do it in 2022. Your answer on the file is particularly interesting. What I remember, in particular, is that I continue to insist - that we are part of the discussion and we are effectively involved in it and that we do not just let it happen. There are enormous financial and other interests at stake. It will also increase the credibility of the debate when Member States are also involved in the whole debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic362x.u78	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The green bond market is indeed becoming increasingly important. That is why a reference framework and labelling are essential. As far as taxonomy criteria are concerned, the correct figure remains to be determined. I have also referred to the role of the financial sector. In any case, we are following the dossier more closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic362x.u79	Mrs. Depraetere is absent.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic362x.u80	Madam President, Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in the register of invitations, I would also like to extend an invitation to the Deputy Prime Minister in the beautiful Viroin Valley for the Vapor Festival in September, for example, or for any other occasion. My question relates to the bridge law which was unfortunately put in place in the context of the health crisis and which allowed thousands of independents to keep their heads out of the water in a period when they were no longer returning because their activity was closed by decision of the authority. At that time, the question of taxation, of the tax treatment of these passer-by allowances, it seems to me, has not really been developed in the information or in the discussions we have had. According to the UCM, the tax treatment of bridge law depends, on the one hand, on the status under which the self-employed person has exercised his activity (independent natural person, director or assisting spouse) and, on the other hand, on the type of bridge right to which the self-employed person has benefited (bridge right of crisis or support to recovery). It must be recognized that this is quite complicated for the people concerned. The UCM regrets complex rules – either! – differences in treatment as well as the unexpected impact on the social security costs of certain independents. Deputy Prime Minister, this is a matter of information. Can you tell us what tax treatment will be given to the right-of-way income received by the various types of self-employed during this health crisis? How do we explain the differences in tax treatment between the categories of self-employed and the types of bridge law? Some did not expect to be taxed on these benefits. What information has been provided to these independents since March 2020? What information can be provided on the basis of your responses so that these independents are really well informed? Finally, will they receive any assistance in the encoding of tax returns?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic362x.u81	Madam Chair, Mr. Delizée, bridge and recapture benefits pay a temporary loss of income. They are to be considered in respect of the taxpayer, whether the taxpayer is a worker, a director of a business or a self-employed person other than a assisting spouse, to be replacement income taxable at the progressive rate and entitled, where applicable, to a tax reduction. Crisis bridge legal allowances follow the same tax rules and regime as recovery bridge legal allowances except where they are granted to an independent whose income is taxable for profit or profit. Under the current tax legislation, these allowances are considered to be compensation for a forced act that could lead to a reduction in his professional activity. Such compensation shall, as a general rule, be taxed at the separate rate of 16,5 % in so far as it does not exceed the profits for the benefit of taxable persons in respect of the activity abandoned and carried out during the four years preceding that of the reduction of activities, unless the tax at the overall rate is more favourable. These differences in the tax treatment of crisis bridge law between business leaders and self-employed persons whose income is taxable on account of profits or profits are the result of tax legislation. This legislation does not contain any provision subject to a separate tax rate for such allowances when they are obtained as compensation for a reduction in the activity of the directors of a company. Finally, whether it is a crisis or a resumption, bridging benefits are not taxable in respect of a assisting spouse, since, under the current tax legislation, there is no legal provision subjecting such benefits to income tax. The tax system for these various allowances was communicated by circular on the fisconetplus website. For further information on the inclusion of these allowances in the tax return, please refer to the above circulars. Your question concerning the calculation of social contributions is generally within the competence of the Minister of Social Affairs and, in particular, the competence of the Minister in charge of self-employed persons with regard to the social security contributions of self-employed persons.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic362x.u82	I thank the Minister for his answers. I believe that these clarifications are necessary for the tax side. Indeed, social contributions do not fall within your competence. I think it is important that the social insurance funds are well informed. I think that they are trying to do so, to inform all the independents concerned, some of whom were probably surprised at the deductions made on these amounts. As you said, they compensate for a situation they did not want or decide. I think my question was purely informative. I was concerned that the information should be given, perhaps also through the caisses, and also to help the independents with their tax returns.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic362x.u83	Mr Piedboeuf, thank you for your question. It seems to me that you are referring to a specific case. I invite you to contact me so that I can check the situation with my administration.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic362x.u84	This was not a concrete case but a general reflection. I accept your answer, minister.
