ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u2	We resume the discussion of the government's statement. We shall resume the discussion of the Government's statement. Ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to join your place, so that we can continue the debate. Minister Vandenbroucke is in the room and we are ready to listen to Mr. Hedebouw.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u3	Madam President, the long-awaited moment has come! I thank those who are present. I'm waiting for everyone to sit down. Madam President, I expected a little more people for this speech. Mr Vandenbroucke is here. That's okay. Where's the Prime Minister? This is a speech for him, isn't it? Ladies and gentlemen, I will begin with the PVDA speech. It's a shame the Prime Minister isn't here. My speech was actually addressed directly to him, to give him the opinion of the PVDA on the policy statement we heard yesterday. The least we can say is that we are not happy with the measures now on the table. We are not happy because for us the vivaldi government, although it had four seasons already, has stuck in winter. Winter will be hard, for the working population, because of energy prices, of course, and for the long-term sick. In my view, these are the two major problems of the policy proposed yesterday by the Prime Minister. I have heard Minister Van Quickenborne say that the taboos that have existed for decades will be tackled. I have a feeling that the big taboos will not be dealt with. At Engie-Electrabel the millions come in. No one's talked about the big fortunes. When it comes to taboos, it is mainly about social taboos. That is the problem of what was presented to us yesterday. My first point, Prime Minister, is, of course, about the antisocial policy that you want to pursue with regard to long-term sick people. Prime Minister, in your statement yesterday, you told us: "We are holding back the growth of certain expenditures, such as those related to incapacity for work, by trying to look at what everyone is capable of doing and not at the tasks that they are no longer able or unable to carry out; by carrying out a wide-ranging reform that requires commitments from all parties involved - employers, workers, mutualities and prescribers. For the first time, everyone is responsible." Pressure's on. I immediately received a few testimonies. I would like to read one of them: 'I would very much like one of the ministers to take over my disease, chronic pancreatic inflammation, so that I can go back to work, rather today than tomorrow. Since I can't do this, I hope I won't be punished any more for being sick. Because I've been punished enough already. I have less income, towering pharmacist bills of an average of 250 euros a month. If the gentlemen want 2.5 % of my benefits, be my guest. Much worse than it already is, you can't make it. Then call me a profiteer." A second message also came in: "I don't understand what planet they live on. Probably planet VoKa. I haven't been sick myself until I've gotten a burnout. Six months at home. Two more relapses after that. A first four months and then three months. They clearly don't know what it's like to sit at home with a high guilt for a long time - want to but not be able to." Those are important stories. This is really about the symbolic discussion we had earlier. What kind of a signal is being sent to all these long-term sick people by saying that they may be subject to sanctions? That is what this is all about. You want to scare people and tell them that if they don't participate, there will be a penalty. It's a punishment for people who are already having a hard time. How many people have long-term ill now? 985 euros for someone who worked part-time? A maximum of 1,200 euros? These people are already losing out and are already losing a lot of purchasing power. And then you come up with a signal that says you're risking sanctions if you don't fill out the form. I don't understand that signal. It's not a symbol discussion either. It's about really important signals.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u4	Mr Hedebouw, you have a very bad habit of using some kind of anecdotics and telling me: 'Look what you are doing'. You're asking me what signal I'm sending. Well, let me be very clear. The signal we're sending is we're not gonna leave anyone out of the way. As Mr Vandenbroucke said, the word 'disabled' is actually the worst word that can be found for this. In fact, they say, "You, sir, you, madam, are not suitable." We say exactly the opposite. We speak to those people who no longer believe in themselves because of their history. You actually confirm the story of the people who say, "I can't do anything anymore. The only thing that could please me is that I am left alone." We will break that by saying to everyone that we are indeed interested in them and asking them to fill out a questionnaire in order to better understand how we can look at what we can do in a conversation afterwards. What you want, Mr Hedebouw, is simply the status quo, with hundreds of thousands of people forgotten by the system. You want to forget about it, while we want the opposite. We want to show that we are interested, including in people who have been completely forgotten by the system. That's the difference. You want to leave it the way it is, and we want to help those people. [[Applause]] )
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u5	Well, I mean exactly the opposite. I want people to be able to get back to work. That's what I want. But first, I want to discuss how they got sick. You take the word system in your mouth. You're right. If there are 500,000 long-term sick people, it is a system issue. Have you not had a discussion in the government about the reasons why all these people fall ill? I'll tell you. This is because of the workload, flexibility, company relations and, of course, the termination of the bridge pension and early retirement. I have here a graph of the number of employees who have not been allowed to take a bridge pension in the last five years. It's about 50,000 employees. The number of people who have become ill for a long time is over 60,000. So there is a relationship, ministers, that is clearly shown in the graph. [[Objection]] It's enough to listen to the people. They complain they're tired. You do not see that there is clearly a link between the abolition of runways and the fact that it is becoming more difficult and difficult on the work floor on the one hand and the long-term illness of workers on the other? That link is clear, isn't it? You would be much better at discussing working conditions than bullying people. Moreover, many employees testify to us that, if they want to get back to work, they will be told by the employer that they do not have a suitable job for them. "I have a pain in my pollen; I have continued working on the band, but can no longer work on the band because of osteoarthritis. If you have another job for me," an employee asks his employer and the answer is: "I have nothing for you" That happens many times in Belgium in thousands of companies. Why do you point out the long-term sick as a problem? Don't tell me there's no budgetary dimension. Yesterday we had a debate in Villa Politica. There would be no budgetary targets, but do I not read in your tables that the budget for long-term sick people reduces by EUR 124 million a year? Politically speaking, you have a problem. You're doing victim blaming for the long-term sick. It is also about a symbol, otherwise you would not have submitted that measure. 2.5% weighs heavily for long-term sick people if they have an income of about 1,200 euros per month. That's culpabilising. What the psychiatrists say is interesting, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u6	Mr Hedebouw, first of all I would like to support what the Prime Minister has summed up excellently about the spirit of the project. You're making a lot of noise about the sanctions. The people you read the letters to will not be sanctioned. What kind of bullshit is that? The proposal is for workers to be called upon after a number of weeks of incapacity for work, because they want more information. Those people get asked to fill out a form. Among other things, they ask what goes wrong at work and how they feel. If they don't fill out that form, they'll be contacted. The return-to-work coordinator will propose to help them fill out the form. It's just people whose medical records have shown that it's relevant to ask that question, not people who are deadly sick or people who know they're coming back in three weeks. The first offer will be to help fill out the form. People will not be punished immediately because they do not return their form. They will also be invited. After all, we want to talk to these people. If people have good reasons not to fill out their forms, they can give them. However, if people persist in refusing to have that basic conversation, despite the fact that help has been offered, that questions have been asked and that they have been urged, then there is a problem. I'll repeat it again. Article 134 (2) of the health insurance legislation provides that the medical adviser may suspend a person completely if he does not comply with any element of the obligation of inspection, such as not returning a form or not responding to an invitation. So that's already in the law. What the hell are you talking about? Then why have you never organised demonstrations against it before? It's already in the law. Come on, now! I think, in all honesty, that you might not know what it's about. Everyone knows people who are having a hard time, I know them too, but I don't feel like you've given a lot of thought to what health insurance is all about. Suspension already exists in the law. We provide for something new, and this includes a slight administrative intervention that will affect persistent refusals, despite calls and offered help. I think that's okay and there's nothing wrong with that. As far as the amounts in the budget are concerned, it would be odd to ask for additional resources during a budget conclave, inter alia to divide them equally among the Regions, to help them to launch more pathways, to achieve support for that process and to finance back-to-work coordinators, and not to say what those specific actions would bring. We have made a very careful estimate based on how many routes we think we can organise from the health insurance to the VDAB, Actiris and the Forem. How many percent of that can, we think, be successful. Yes, of course, that's money. It would still be wrong that it should not be said. Of course, we have talked to our colleagues about this: we are spending, something has to come in. But that is not the main objective, as I said earlier, to the surprise of some people. It's not why we do it, that Hilde Crevits does it, that Christie Morreale does it or our Brussels colleagues. They'll do it for the good of the people. That's what this is about. And perhaps if I may ask you to concentrate on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u7	Firstly, the budgetary targets: EUR 481 million are not nothing. This morning we debated a lot about EUR 30 million, so EUR 481 million is still a lot of money. Secondly, you need to listen more to the people on the ground. Frieda Matthys, Head of Department of Psychiatry UZ Brussels works with the people on the premises. Of the 500,000 long-term sick, 160,000 are in burn-out, affected by a psychological condition. And then you finish by filling out a form. Filling that out, starting a trajectory, has a culpabilising effect, which is obvious. The people who don't answer don't do that for fun. I quote Mrs Mathys: "All patients who cannot work, feel frustrated and ashamed because of burn-out, depression or anxiety disorder. The medical advisors' checks are stressful and often humiliating to them, but a necessary evil. If this also has to happen in an atmosphere of suspicion, the system will make them sicker instead of being supportive." If that is not enough, I quote Caroline Copers from the ABVV. The ABBV, Minister, should still mean something to you. "To guide a long-term sick person to a customized job is good. Threatening sanctions immediately is a false signal. It puts long-term sick away as profiteers. What about companies that do not make serious efforts to integrate?" I still want to read the reaction of François Perl de Solidaris, a socialist mutuality. As a minister, as a socialist, it must touch you a minimum. I quote: "Favouring the return of the sick to work when possible and when their medical situation permits, it is certainly a very good thing. On the other hand, sanctions are quite counterproductive, it doesn't work and it comes in addition to social problems, to the stress of the disease." The Christian Mutuality is opposed to sanctions for long-term sick. Stigmatisation does not contribute to better health. The NAR doesn't say anything else. The NAR's opinion states 14 times that the routes must remain voluntary. (...):(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u8	But no. As soon as there's a sanction, there won't be any volunteering, will there? Why is a sanction imposed? Can you now decide not to introduce the 2.5 % penalty?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u9	President, it will of course take a long time if we have to correct all the wrong information from Mr Hedebouw. It is not proposed here that anyone who refuses a trajectory should be sanctioned. So we are not going against the advice of the NAR on that point. It is proposed that a person who, despite the assistance offered, persistently refuses to fill out a form can be sanctioned. It's about people who stubbornly refuse to go into an invitation for a first conversation. That is quite clear, please also pass it on to those very many people you so-called constantly meet. Please inform them that if they say during that conversation that they don't like going back to work at the time, there will be no sanction at all. Nothing. This is going to be based on volunteering. That is clear, that is what the government has agreed, it will be no different. Will you stop it, Mr. Hedebouw? That you're wasting my time isn't so bad, but you're wasting the time of many others by telling things that are just not right. I'm gonna say something else, then I don't have to answer that either. I suppose you can do a little math. You should share that amount you mentioned in relation to budgetary savings by, for example, 15,000 people. Then you will see that the outcome indeed corresponds to saved benefits and income from contributions and taxes from people at work. Even if we only manage to get 15,000 people to work by the end of the legislature, we already have that savings. That's not that big a deal, is it? It is a very realistic assessment of what one should at least be able to achieve with the resources I have asked the government to do. I hope, of course, to achieve much more. However, you act as if EUR 400 million is a great deal. Well, take your calculator and divide it by 15,000, then you'll see.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u10	Then let's talk about sanctioning and responding to employers. All small businesses are already losing weight. However, that is the vast majority of companies here in Belgium. You're saying we're not gonna reactivate these employers, are we, Mr. Secretary?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u11	That's not right again. Your franc sometimes falls rather slowly. Even in a small company, the Inspector of Welfare Supervision can enter the Work and indicate to the employer that he is not making the necessary effort to help someone in the work. For this, he can put his finger on him and make it clear that he can be punished for that. That is already the case. We must not introduce this measure; we must implement it. This is often the case in politics. We just have to do it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u12	That's just not gonna happen.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u13	So it's just not right, I'll give you that for the report. It is not right that small businesses should not be followed in any way. They can even be sanctioned if the company does not do what it has to do on a journey of someone who has become unfit for work. We are adding something that will be automatic and we are doing so on the basis of results. We are starting with the big companies, which makes sense because they can work with large numbers. We state that a company with many employees in long-term illness has a problem. This cannot be done with a small company with ten employees. This must be done on the basis of statistics and large numbers. So we're adding something that didn't exist. I will be silent now, but if you say something wrong with every sentence, we will be here until next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u14	Minister, it really shows that you are living in a different world. These inspections do not take place, and in practice they do not. People want another job they can still handle, but they don't get that offer. Those inspections aren't gonna happen. I do not want to culpabilise the inspections, but it is a question of resources and priorities. That is not the case in the field. You need to talk about the employers. If people today have a problem with being able to work, they will not be given another job, for example part-time or other work. We've heard thousands of these stories. You can hear them yourself, can't you? You're gonna send a signal now, and as a symbol, that's bad. After all, you yourself state that this 2.5 % is a symbol, a signal to indicate that those who do not cooperate from the outset are subject to sanctions. Psychiatrists are very worried about that because the people involved already feel guilty. That is the problem, Minister. You're bringing up all the stubborn who don't want to join. This requires 2.5 %. However, the vast majority already feel guilty because they are ill, because the system has made them sick. Finally, let me come back to the fact that you are not talking about the reasons why we have 500 000 long-term sick. I really hope you realise that the abolition of runways and bridge pensions has caused a lot of workers who have been broken up, both physically and psychologically. The measures taken by you and by previous governments contribute to this. I therefore ask you how you will remedy that. You answer that people will have to work longer. So we really have a completely different philosophy, Minister Vandenbroucke, it has nothing to do with knowledge, so you don't have to play the teacher or anything. You should listen to what people are saying. That's what a socialist normally has to do. That the right-wing parties don't do this, I know. We know what class the right side rides for. We, left-wing parties, must listen to the people. Those long-term sick are already victims. Long-term patients are victims, not culprits. Instead, turn to the big fortunes and activate them! But stop trying to bother the unemployed, the long-term sick and the pre-pensioned. That is what we must say! [[Applause from the European Democratic Group]] [[)]] The fight against tax fraud. In every government statement, we are put in the small sentence and we are all waiting for it: "We must make the fight against tax fraud a priority" But what do we do practically? I hear the Finance Minister, who's not here, say, "Yes, I've taken a lot of steps, etc." Let's go see what's going on in the field. The public service that deals with control, the controllers, how many are they? The last five years (I'm not talking about the last 25 years) are 487 less! I'm talking about the personnel supposed to perform the checks. Now I'm thinking, "It's okay! Vivaldi wants to make the fight against tax fraud a priority and will invest in it." What do we mean by Mr. Van Peteghem: "I have an ambitious plan: 40 more jobs! What do you think? That we're going to swallow everything you tell us? You think we can't see you? It is clear that you are not investing in the fight against tax fraud. The people see well. He'll always be missing 447 people to work in tax control. The famous list of tax havens, because in order to fight tax fraud, it is necessary to determine what a country is that is a tax haven. For that, dear friends, ladies and gentlemen, our state has what is commonly referred to as a list of tax havens. So far, everything's holding up. But what's on this list? Who? What? Analyze the Pandora Papers. Five countries mentioned in the list are not even on our list: Belize, Panama, Seychelles, Hong Kong, Cyprus. Only Dubai and the British Virgin Islands are included on our list. Last week, Mr. Van Peteghem added another layer. Obviously, he talked to his colleagues. I don't know what they're saying, it must be interesting, it's in camera. They had a big debate to say: "Oh, guys, the Pandora Papers are out. I think we'll be able to make a big decision." Another finance minister asked, "What are you proposing? I propose to remove three countries from the list of tax havens, including Seychelles." We have already asked three times what our minister defended at this meeting. Didn't the Prime Minister tell you that, by any chance? Obviously, he agreed. We are therefore removing countries from the list of tax havens. I can see that everyone is looking at his computer, saying: "We're spotted. They've spotted us." Yes! We've spotted you!. So the next question is: once you're on a list of tax havens, what happens? That too is interesting. We asked the minister the question. So we said: "Listen, Mr. Van Peteghem, it is impossible for us to prohibit conduct that is permitted abroad. We do not have sovereignty to do so. And some meet economic goals of succession." The solution is therefore, dear friends, dear comrades, all together: transparency. There! Come on, it's bullshit! There are countries in the world that are torpedoing all our tax systems and you dare not take any action against these countries. The other countries, yes! Against the rogue states, there are sanctions, the banks are frozen and tutti quaanti, we even send the army. But in the case of tax havens, no problem, we can do nothing! You see, it's not serious! When I see the intensity you are putting in order to control the unemployed, to control the social beneficiaries and the little energy you are devoting to controlling the big fortunes of the Pandora Papers, that is what I call a class government that runs for the richest. That is what we must say, comrades! [[Applause from the European Democratic Group]] ) The third chapter deals with energy prices. Yesterday, Loes, a friend, called me about her 40-sqm apartment. Mr. Secretary, I know the people. You still have to learn that. It's not funny, it's about energy prices. Her apartment is 40 m2 in size. She got a quote from Engie for 240 euros a month. Do you think it is normal that a country like Belgium should pay EUR 240 per month for energy? I don't think that's normal. We expected you to take measures for the majority of the workers, for the majority of the servants, for the majority of the self-employed. But no, you didn't. I welcome the measures taken for the poorest 20 per cent. We will of course vote in favour, it is the continuation and extension of the social tariff. This is a good measure that must partially protect the poorest. I say "partially" because the bills will also increase for the social rate: on average 302.5 euros more. There will be an increase because the social rate continues to follow market prices. Here, I'm talking about all the other workers, the famous third, fourth and fifth deciles we talked about. We're not rich in the third decile. If we want to attack the rich, I hear well and then we talk about the two richest centiles. I am referring here to the working class, to all the workers. And that's still a little. You estimate the conversion into an excise duty of 50 euros, that is, you tell the people that they will pay between 700 and 750 euros more per year. That's not right! Members of the Green Group have just spoken about Test Purchase. They say that especially the middle class stays in the cold. They claim to be satisfied with the social tariff, but to be disappointed that there has been no VAT reduction on basic gas and electricity consumption. You should have taken those measures. The Swedish government would become an anti-tax and anti-tax government. The first measure they took was under the influence of the N-VA, the Open Vld and the MR. The antitax party! As a first step, the Swedish government has decided to increase VAT by 6 to 21 per cent. This is a profoundly unfair measure for the self-employed, for the workers and for the middle class. What you should have decided, ladies and gentlemen, is to reduce this VAT to 6%, because nobody in Belgium can explain why essential goods, such as gas and electricity, are taxed at 21%. From a fiscal point of view, a special instalment of 6% has been provided for basic necessities. We did it! Why don't you apply it to gas and electricity? This would bring people three to four hundred euros and partly respond to the social distress that will exist in Belgium because of these energy bills. You'll tell me, "Mr. Hedebouw, where does the money come from?" What is serious and cynical, ladies and gentlemen, is that this explosion in energy prices is a source of satisfaction for some. There are places and meetings in Belgium that are satisfied that these prices are rising. That's good news for them. I'm talking about Electrabel. They don't care about the cost. This is the same at the nuclear level. The prizes are exploding and they're taking overprofits. The minister has already been asked what the overprofit represents. Even the public service does not know the exact calculation. According to our estimates, this amounts to EUR 100 million per month. The Commission for the Regulation of Electricity and Gas (CREG) must respond to us. A few actors are accumulating a lot of money and wealth in the sector, while so many people are in the midst of a social crisis. Madam Minister, I do believe that more will is needed. You're saying that Mrs. Marghem locked everything in a deal - which is not one of them. It must be said that his firm was full of ex-executors from Electrobel. Electrabel is obviously found everywhere on the public level. In Belgium, a board of directors of a multinational such as Electrabel has more power than our energy minister. This is crazy! That is where we must go to get the money. We cannot allow a minority to continue to grow rich and to reach millions of euros, when people will be cold, to save their energy reserves and save at all levels because they will not have enough resources. I heard that in order to lighten energy bills, the Vivaldi government claims to be targeting only those who really need it. So you're implying that there's only the poorest 20% who really need it. That is not the case. The third, fourth, fifth deciles - all workers - must be helped. That is not the case, and it is not with your transformation into excise duty, Madam Minister, that you are going to meet the enormous needs that exist today. The fourth point concerns labour market reform. As far as night work is concerned, some ministers create a bit of an illusion that night work in Belgium would be prohibited. That's not the case. There is no problem working at night in Belgium. Suffice it to make sectoral agreements with companies that allow for night work. I come from a city, Liège, where hundreds of people work from midnight to four o'clock in the morning at Bierset Airport, TNT, Fedex, etc. The debate does not concern permission to work at night. The debate will be on receiving a surcharge between 8:00 p.m. and 24:00 p.m. This is a purely economic exploitation debate. Now, ministers, today you want to tackle the small upsalary that these workers receive and that is a problem! Of course, these are not large sums. But when you have to work during hours that are harmful to your health and family life, it is normal to receive a small salary supplement. This is what is being attacked today when we speak on behalf of e-commerce. This does not surprise me that the social partners are not hot for this measure and that they have already sent a signal saying that we should not touch this type of mini surcharge granted to those who work later at night. Prime Minister, my question is that of many trade union organizations. I think Mr. Lachaert has already responded. What will happen if there is no agreement between the social partners in March 2022? Can you confirm before Parliament that the government will take over? Or are you saying that this will only be social consultation? What, if there is no agreement, there will be no forcing? This is a small detail in the Vivaldi sauce, but we know that this type of constellation has already appeared in the negotiation of the wage standard where it was said to want to give the social partners their chance. There was no agreement... and who decided to make a royal order? Mr. Dermagne! I ask you the question, Prime Minister, and I ask you to answer me, because your communication was blurred. Do you confirm that in March 2022, without agreement, you will take over the reins to decide at the level of the various areas mentioned in relation to work arrangements?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u15	Mr Hedebouw, this is a method that we have already used several times. We respect social dialogue and we hope, whenever possible, that an agreement will be possible. Agreements have already been concluded and respected by the government. But sometimes an agreement cannot be reached. We have been very clear: if the social partners are unable to agree, the matter will return to the level of the Council of Ministers. But I hope that such a situation will be exceptional. The agreement reached is very clear as to the objectives and method. It has already been observed that, under this government, the social partners are cooperating rather well. It is a matter of trust and trust that we give them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u16	Prime Minister, I don't know if you know that, but in all sectors, the tension is enormous. There were strikes again today at Lidl, etc. Workers are angry that their wages are blocked at 0.4%. You say things are going pretty well. But I assure you that anger is enormous in the workplace. In any event, you confirm to us that you give six months to the social partners. I like the technique of saying that they can discuss what they want, that they only need to discuss working time at night. So-called debate is open! Prime Minister, if they come back to the table saying that they had a great idea, that they think that 18 hours is better than 20 hours, will you agree? No! You are saying that there is freedom to negotiate, while telling them that you want exceptions for night work. In fact, there will be no negotiation. That is where the problem lies. The same was true for salaries. You're not going to allow negotiation. The communication yesterday was not very clear, and it is alarming. In fact, the decision you made is that Vivaldi will decide in March 2022. I'm talking to the left parties. Indeed, that the right-wing want to force, via the government of course, the taking of this type of measure, I hear it well. But as far as we are concerned, we must leave full power to the social partners, to the trade union organisations to negotiate, even if an agreement cannot be reached. What else will the boss do? As was the case with the salary standard, he will say that he is not seeking anything. We'll keep going, keep going, and, in March 2022, we'll cut in. That's not right! This is not social consultation! I come to the week of four days, the great progressive reform. "We give employees more freedom to plan their work week much more freely" in consultation with the employer. It is therefore the freedom to gather everything over four days. Messicher the ministers of the right, we did not fight for nothing, a century ago, for the eight-hour day. Eight-hour day... I'm talking about a hundred years ago! This debate is a hundred years old. Why did we fight for the eight-hour day? Because there was a need for a balance in life. A balance between work, leisure and sleep. Eight, eight, eight. This is an important fight we have waged. We protect people for this; and it is not for nothing that we do it. In March 2020, the French National Institute for Research and Safety for the Prevention of Accidents at Work and Diseases published a research on the consequences of extending the working day beyond eight hours. I know, Mr. Piedboeuf, that you do not believe in science; but I will still tell you. Let me finish! Listen to this! Scientists have studied this: "Circulatory system diseases, diabetes, metabolic syndrome, sleep disorders, increased risk of stroke. The lengthening of the daily working time creates a lot of problems." We're back at Mr. Vandenbroucke's house! That is to say, you are putting in place flexibility, you are putting in place a reform of the world of work that will make people sick. That is the problem of the right. You are going to blame the workers who will then be in burn-out, who will be tired, who will have strokes; while the very working conditions are deteriorating in our countries. No, I really hope this type of four-day week doesn't happen. The week of the four days I want is that with a reduction in working time: For that, we have actually fought and we will continue to fight.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u17	Mr Hedebouw, the caricature goes a little too far for me. Do you know how many inactive people between the ages of 24 and 65 are in this country? There's 1,372,000 of them. These are 1,372,000 people aged 24 to 65 who could be on the labour market. Mr. Hedebouw, your audience is the workman. I too come from a disadvantaged family with 7 children. How many percent of the low-skilled in Belgium are out of work? Half. I don't know what it's like in Liège, Bergen or Charleroi, but I know what it's like in Bruges, Antwerp, Ghent or West Flanders. Should you stand with your two feet in the companies and with the self-employed, you would know that there is no maleized patron who is not looking for staff. That is one of the biggest problems in this country at the moment. I don't know if they've been broken, because you know what the average career of someone who's retiring is. The average career in Belgium is 33.4 years and not the 47 or 45 years you are talking about. Do you know the rate of effectiveness in Belgium? I'm for that 80 percent, even though I don't believe in it. The rate of effectiveness is 74.7 % in Flanders, 64.6 % in Wallonia and 61.3 % in Brussels. Of the non-EU immigrants between 20 and 64 years old, less than half of them are working. Mr Hedebouw, you mentioned the Lidl. I have nothing to do with Lidl, but Lidl drives Belgium around with a job bus because it has 350 employees too short. Lidl drives from market to market to ask people to come and work with them. Instead of fighting the class struggle twice more, we would be much better off looking at where the real needs lie. We really have to see that there are a lot of planners, I say that flatly. As mayor, I am aware of, for example, the number of people receiving a living wage. However, the time has come to find a real balance rather than a discussion between the left and the right. In this balance, people must also be able to be obliged to work. I do not agree with the government's approach, because I do not think it goes far enough. We are still the only country in Europe, the English are no longer part of Europe, we are still the only country in Europe without a limitation on unemployment benefits over time. As long as that measure is not introduced, it will go wrong. Mr Hedebouw, I can agree with you in your statement that work does not pay. That is the big problem. An employee registered for a net wage of 1,800 euros, all of it, is currently costing the employer 4,150 euros per month. I know where the dog is bound, that's the big problem. You must stop caricaturizing the great patron as an exploiter of his employees. People are not being exploited, because employers are calling for people to work. How many MPs here have ever run a business or had their own business, for which they have to work 12 to 14 hours a day? A manager like that gets up in the morning and needs employees. He gets a call from an employee who unsubscribes from work because he's hungover. Another employee doesn't show up because of the Monday sickness. You must face that reality instead of constantly selling caricatures.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u18	Mr Dedecker, I would like to start with that last element, because we agree that working does not pay enough. Why, however, was an index jump made? Why is the wage standard being applied drastically? I therefore appeal to the right-wing parties in general, because I do not know exactly what your individual voting behaviour is. Such questions are the problem. Take Lidl as an example. There's a lot of hard work there. Do you know that Lidl's boss doesn't even want to apply the wage standard of 0.4% at the moment? Here in the Chamber there was a debate for hours to keep the wage standard at a maximum of 0.4%. We get a lot of messages from sectors where we don't even want to apply that 0.4%. The workers of Lidl have been working throughout the corona crisis, Mr Dedecker, but their wage increase should be even less than 0.4%. That's problematic, isn't it? The issue of the bottleneck professions is, after all, a question of supply and demand. Which bottleneck professions are we talking about? Nurses? Then pay those people more. What did Joe Biden say? Pay them more . That's the answer. Pay them more. Supply and demand always determines the strength ratio in the sectors. Just pay them more.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u19	(...) You always jump off the heel on the branch. The debate on the wage standard is a completely different debate. I will tell you why it is a different debate. You are talking about wage standards, but you are not talking about indexation. Pull it open by sector. Then you shouldn't complain about the nurses or the cashiers. Then do it by sector, but you don't dare. That's right, the whole thing is staggering. You have probably heard today that I am not a supporter of this government, but stop making a potpourri and use one argument for another. That's gonna be caricature.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u20	It is about the working population and the situation in the companies. The fifth point I would like to address today concerns the budget and investment. The first thing to note is that this government was not obliged, for the first time in 15 years, to apply the rules of the Stability Pact. He was not obliged to follow European rules since an exception was provided for. Yet this government decides to go even further. I don't understand. Indeed, I had heard left-wing parties say that it was necessary to reinvest, that the economy needed a Keynesian revival, particularly through major public works. I expected the government agreement to say that we should not apply the austerity that even Europe is asking us not to do for a year. But the Prime Minister tells us very proudly and enthusiastically at yesterday's press conference: Europe does not ask us to impose austerity, but I want to tell you that I do it anyway. It came from the heart! I don't understand how we could have let that happen. It was precisely necessary to invest now and take counter-cyclical measures. Instead, we cut more. This is how we see that, by 2024, you are still announcing EUR 600 million less for the civil service and the measures relating to long-term patients. On the other hand, as far as expenditure is concerned, have you read closely this very interesting report of the National Bank of Belgium which compared it with the other surrounding countries? What do we get out of this report? A very large item of expenditure in Belgium is wage subsidies. Don't you know about professional discounting? It's a pretty well-known technique. Basically, you have to pay taxes. Your boss receives this professional discount and has to send it to the tax office but, rather than sending it to the state budget, he keeps it for him. This is called the professional discount exemption. It's a pretty simple system. Why don't you attack these wage subsidies? It's not a debate. When it comes to spending, it's taboo. This happens again from year to year, but it is not a problem. On the other hand, when we talk about public services, there's 600 million less. Why is this double standard at the budgetary level? We could epilogue for years to find out what austerity is. There is actually always worse than yourself. It is clear, especially when we saw what happened in Greece. I believe, however, that the measures to be taken have not been very far away today. Do you know what professional discount exemptions represent? According to your tables, this amounts to 3.6 billion euros. That's a lot of money! We could have two or three hours of debate on this. We talked about EUR 30 million, so it's still worth discussing EUR 3.6 billion. There is no problem in subsidizing wages. It's state assistance. Where does this unequal situation come from? So you will have understood, ladies and gentlemen, that we are not reassured about budgets either. As far as the railways are concerned, my colleague Maria Vindevoghel has already touched on the subject. EUR 250 million more goes to SNCB. That sounds like a hell of a lot. Whether that's a lot or not, we can debate that. In your opinion, 250 million, how many kilometres of railway is that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u21	Fifteen!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u22	Ah! Someone followed this morning's debate! It's my pleasure! We thank the CDH and the solidarity of an opposition party! Indeed, 15 kilometers of railway lines! That's not what we're going to do! I know that this will be in addition to the 365 million in Europe, but overall, we are not with the ambitions that we have set ourselves. If the goal is really to make a shift, well, we're not at all! Especially since here, we're not talking about operating costs. This morning, the whole debate focused on investment plans, I would say extraordinary budget, but what about the operating costs of the Infrabel machine? What are the numbers? Infrabel's operating allocations, between 2005 and today, decreased by 85%. And that, the railwaymen feel it. Indeed, there are fewer and fewer railway workers to maintain the tracks, to be able to provide the public service. This is the problem within the company: not only are the budgets not enough – and here I agree with the comments made by Georges Gilkinet earlier. The past was already terrible, the Vivaldi government has cut us, according to the debates, between 1.5 and 5 billion at the railway level, but with today's decisions, you are not even getting that back! We're gonna be below what we spent four or five years ago. However, there is a climate emergency. On this side, ladies and gentlemen, we can only be disappointed by the measures or non-measures that have been taken. More generally, Mrs Khattabi, I think the current government has made two fundamental mistakes. The first is to believe that the law of supply and demand can solve our problems. This is a real strategic debate to be held. To believe that influencing supply and demand through subsidies can solve our ecological problems is completely false. Because the law of supply and demand, the capitalist market, will seek only short-term profits; by definition, it will seek that. If we are to be able to take another economic path, the one that will meet the needs, we need massive investments from the public authorities. We have to break the logic of the market. With your CO2 taxes, with your subsidies for the installation of photovoltaic panels, we're not going to make it. We need public investment so that we, democracy, decide on locks; we will invest massively in green energy or we will continue to depend on multinationals. Liberalisation of the energy market would bring us great freedom! Competition was going to reduce prices! It's a completely false economic theory. In a capitalist regime, competition won the biggest against the smallest. In the space of ten or fifteen years, there have been 270 mergers in the energy sector, which means that today six multinationals control most of our energy sector. Look at our ministers' dependence on these multinationals! Even for CRM and gas power plants, we depend on these six multinationals! We cannot continue to leave economic power – and therefore political! – a sector as important as energy in the hands of six multinationals! It is really a fundamental political, democratic, economic and climatic problem that the power remains in the hands of a few multinationals. Dear Ministers, we must take back that power. We must make public investments. That is very important to us, and that is a major problem in climate policy. Another point of concern with regard to climate policy is the institutional issue. Come on, will we have to admit once again in Glasgow to the whole world that there was no agreement in our country on Burden Sharing among other things? We will not, at every COP, be the laughing stock of the world because we are not able to agree between a few Regions. Everyone rejects their fault and we are no longer there! If there is one skill that needs to be re-federalized, it is that of the Climate! I hear that there are openings to re-federalize certain skills, climate must be part of it in my opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u23	Mr Hedebouw, I am a little surprised at what you have said. Over the last few months, we have worked with all the political parties and all the parliaments of the country to draw up an interparliamentary resolution on the climate. After all, we will not send our negotiators to Glasgow empty-handed. We've all worked on that together. Unfortunately, two parties did not participate in the agreement, in particular the Flemish Interest, which often complains that it is not allowed to participate, and also your party. Why didn't you join us? That's because it's not in the DNA of the PVDA to make chords. You always want your big equal. The agreement will probably be approved here in the Chamber next week. You will probably argue that the agreement contains a number of good points in terms of social justice, but that it does not go far enough for your party. I will tell you now that the agreement does not go far enough for me either. That's why I walked in on the climate march last Sunday. After all, I believe that we can do even better here. However, I am not walking away from the table. After all, it is much more important that we have solutions and that we do not send our negotiators empty-handed to Glasgow. In the meantime, we can still argue about how climate policy should be organised in our country. We can do that. In the meantime, however, we must also ensure that we move forward in international fora. We will not do that by standing aside. That's your problem. I'll give you one case. It's not because someone makes chords, that he or she pushes his or her ideals aside.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u24	Mr Verduyckt, you have not listened. The reason why we do not join the alliance for the resolution is not because it does not go far enough, but because it contains fundamental errors. With ETS, a country can simply resell carbon emissions. When I raise the question of whether we should stick to a market economy model, it is not about commas and points. This concerns strategic discussions. Well, I do not believe in that system to solve our climate problems. The point is not that the text does not go far enough. You stress in the resolution that a measure must be socially equitable. But can you guarantee that no one will reach for a carbon tax? Of course you can't. In her introductory speech, Mrs Khattabi spoke about setting up a carbon tax. Those aren't small points. It's not about more or less social. It is about the fundamental measures we need to take to solve the climate problem effectively. In that sense, I fully agree with you. We were on the street together. We can certainly send a signal to COP. But it is problematic that you do not dare to question the fundamental problems of our economy in the resolution you are putting forward with other parties. It is a good thing that a left-wing party like the PVDA rejects this. We need to be able to proceed with qualitative measures. With this resolution we will not get there on an ecological and climatological level. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall conclude on a positive point: the issue of health care. It seems to me that a strong signal was given by perpetuating the White Blouse Fund. We continue to invest in health care. This is proof that a social struggle can lead to something. I recall how mocked we were by some benches calling us populists, Marxists – which was just what was – and this because we came with the idea of the White Blouse Fund. However, it is there and has even created 4,500 jobs! This is proof that we can be constructive. We worked well with all the parties. The pressure was put by the social movement. This shows that the dialectic between the social movement, on the one hand, and the parliamentary forces, on the other hand, is interesting and can bring things to fruition. What is positive is that the Fund is maintained. But the means are not enough. The returns from the field indicate that there is a need for more to be able to hire people and raise wages in the sector. The problem with the sector is that thousands of nurses are no longer in the sector because the working conditions are not worthy of it. That is one of the main reasons why we must continue to fund. Prime Minister, on the subject of the vaccine yesterday, you were proud to say, as my colleague Sophie Merckx said, "on the international stage, we do not spare our efforts because the coronavirus does not stop at our borders. No one is safe until everyone is safe. This is why our country is making significant efforts in the framework of VOCAX initiatives." In third world countries, they are very critical of the VOCAX system. What they see is that a company like Pfizer has given nine times more vaccines to the people of Sweden than to all low-income countries together! That's a problem, colleagues. Of the six billion doses, 0.3 per cent went to low-income countries. What do you think the third-world countries are looking at us? What do you think, with this world order of Europe and the United States? How do all these people of the Third World look at us? They need to be given knowledge so that they can produce their own vaccines. It is criminal to have the formula of the molecule that could save millions of people and not share it. Fifty years from now, we must be able to explain this to our children. We had the molecule, but we didn't give it to them, because we have to make money. It's immoral! It's criminal! The money's already here! The profits of these companies are enormous. They are around 130 billion in 2022 for Moderna and Pfizer-BioNTech. Don't you think that 130 billion is already good? Is it worth continuing to let people die in the third world for even more benefit? I don't think so. Prime Minister, I regret that the European countries have blocked the international initiative to lift patents. We must give knowledge to all the peoples of the Third World, not only to heal them but also to us. As long as the virus turns around in all these countries, there will be variants. There will be danger for humanity as a whole. So we are going to continue our fight, Prime Minister, so that these patents can be made free and all the peoples of the world can produce their own vaccines. For us, there is no benefit to the pandemic. There is only solidarity to be given to all the peoples of the world. That is what we must say! My last thought is about the geostrategic option that you proposed to us yesterday, Prime Minister. I admit I was a little disappointed. I thought you learned from the debacle in Afghanistan. I had perceived a little shudder, as a challenge to this follow-up in relation to American imperialism. But you told us yesterday that we had to talk to everyone. You said that NATO remains the cornerstone of our collective security. I would have thought you would say that the United Nations is a cornerstone of security, that there would be multilateralism. But where does NATO take us? What lessons do we learn from what the Americans have been doing in Afghanistan? They've been on the scene for 20 years, and what have they solved? Nothing, hundreds of thousands dead and nothing solved. The United States of America is responsible for the invasion of Iraq and hundreds of thousands of deaths. It's a criminal state. If any other state in history engaged in a unilateral invasion causing hundreds of thousands of deaths, it would be a ban on humanity. We keep following the Americans. You were talking a little bit about the Soviets. There's no more. It's just the Americans who control the entire planet. They went to Libya. What's the record in Libya? We should not enter into this warlike logic of the United States of America, or enter into this logic of the cold war, because that is what the Americans are asking us here today: to start rolling mechanics. What are we going to do with NATO vessels in the China Sea, Mr. Laaouej? I heard you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u25	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u26	I'm not defending China. Not at all! I am asking you what our troops, what NATO is doing in the China Sea. You won't answer. It's always like this! When we talk about American imperialism, it really hits me.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u27	(...) [[Applause from the European Democratic Group]] )
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u28	Look! This pro-NATO political unanimity in the Belgian Parliament is truly incredible. Has anyone questioned NATO policy here? That's what I thought. This is where the unanimity of all parties is manifested. On NATO, I have not heard much critical thinking about the PS. Is the PS critical of NATO? We're talking about the Americans, you're talking about the Chinese! Talk about the Americans! I think that says a lot of things. This taboo in Belgium makes all political families agree with this American domination, particularly with NATO. I have not heard much critical thinking today about the Minister's statement that we are organizing our security in NATO. I think the NATO framework is organizing our insecurity. NATO today is so aggressive towards other nations in the world that it can indeed lead us to war. I think with article 5, we're sending... Cheer up! You'll see in five or ten years! That's what's too bad. By sending warships to the four corners of the planet, on behalf of NATO, it will blow us up in the face. It would be much better to reach out to all the nations of the world and to play a role in joining multilateralism, not American unilateralism, with NATO domination. Prime Minister, we need another policy, and I regret that you do not extend your hand to all the nations of the world. [[Applause from the European Democratic Group]] )
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u29	Mr Hedebouw, I expect you to say something about the way China is doing today, including what is happening in Taiwan. I think it is also important that you take the time to condemn the way China deals with the Uighurs. We know that your party was having a hard time with that resolution. I hope you dare to say openly that you will also point the finger at China. I hope you will, because pointing only to NATO is not good. We must continue to support NATO here in Belgium. We are a loyal ally and will always be.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u30	That confirms my point. On the one hand, I have no problem condemning what happened with the Uighurs in China. That has already been said. But, on the other hand, what I find really serious is that a resolution... Wait, you're not going to distract the whole debate like that. What I do not understand is that a resolution to sanction China is voted, but that when it comes to punishing Saudi Arabia; when it comes to punishing Israel; when it comes to punishing India, with Muslims... Wait! When we talk about India today, how India behaves towards its Muslim populations, it is still terrible. And no punishment! What I find hypocritical is the geostrategy of continuing - and at least you are honest about it - to completely pay for the Americans. The Americans are an imperialist power that is losing its economic power. What happens when an economic power loses its leadership? What happens in history when an economic power loses its economic leadership? She's using her military force. That's what she did. What happened in Libya, from the point of view of international law, is disgusting. What happened in Iraq is disgusting: 1.5 million dead. In Afghanistan, what right, what right, what right... [[Brouhahaha]] No! Look, look, look! Let the right be a pro-Atlanticist, I understand that. But that the Peace Movement... I think it is very clear that in terms of international politics, it is one of the aspects on which all parties are largely in agreement here in Belgium. Whether it's the right, whether it's the left, it's been a constant for 50 or 60 years. All parties in Belgium have always supported NATO to death! And that makes you uncomfortable because the Peace Movement does not agree with that. I do believe, ladies and gentlemen, that in the months and years to come we must review these strategic partnerships with American imperialism. This will not bring us any good for the workers in Belgium. We must work for peace and not for military intervention in NATO sauce. That's it, ladies and gentlemen, I said!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u31	Your State of the Union yesterday was clear and optimistic. After a difficult period for each of us, caused by corona, we can look forward again. Steps are being taken towards economic recovery, but also to restore our social contacts and our living world. In your statement yesterday, you rightly referred to this difficult period and how it has changed the lives of so many people. It was a sanitary but also a social and economic crisis. That brought with it a lot of fear for many people. Thanks to the measures taken by the previous government, the damage has been limited. Nevertheless, lives have ended or changed. Many support measures have also been taken, fiscal and social, to avoid worse. They actually cost a lot of money. They put a hole in our budget, but they were right. Doing nothing wasn't an option. Doing nothing would not only have cost us much more, it would have caused the people here a lot more misery. The figures also show that the right choices have been made. The recovery starts and the FPS Economy saw that the second quarter of 2021 was already much better. Total turnover increased by 36% this year and even at two years by 9%. We come from a difficult period but the recovery is in sight. The same applies to external trade figures. Our exports have risen considerably. There, too, there is a major improvement in the second quarter. The Federal Planning Bureau is optimistic in its forecasts and predicts GDP growth of 5.5 % in 2021. We are not there yet, but many sectors are still seeing a recovery, which still needs to be worked on. So we're on the right track. The compass looks good, including that of your statement and your budget. By working together, this government is moving forward step by step towards economic recovery. With the recovery and transition plan we make sure that our country literally gets back on track after this corona period. This government wants to get more people to work. Rightly so, because there are many vacancies and more employment will in the long term increase prosperity for everyone. Without sufficient employees in our companies, good relance can be difficult to succeed. Without the commitment of so many, social security is not affordable. The question is, of course, how do we get the ambitious 80% employment?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u32	Mrs De Block, I have the impression that you are going to the second stage of your speech. Your first phase apparently consisted of the macroeconomic figures and the institutions' findings on how well we are doing. However, you have forgotten a number of figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u33	Mr Loones, I've only taken the right figures to challenge you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u34	It would be interesting at least to compare us with the other countries of the European Union. You believe that economic growth in Belgium is going in the right direction, but that growth is stronger in all the other countries of the European Union than in us, except for two or three countries. We're really not at the top. The Prime Minister quoted the International Monetary Fund. A table of government deficits was published again yesterday. All countries are ordered and Belgium is marked in red. Belgium's figures are the worst of all. We will have the largest budget deficit of all countries in the European Union. That is what the International Monetary Fund says. You will say that you have made decisions and that you will do better, but you have made decisions to weaken your ambitions. After all, your coalition agreement was based on an exercise of EUR 3 billion, whereas it is now EUR 2 billion. In that table, therefore, we will increase further. I've marked another country in color, Greece. The Greek government is doing a lot better than your government. Those are the numbers. Those are the figures for you, too, Mrs De Block. It would be a pleasure for you to face that reality.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u35	Mr Loones, the first thing we will do to move towards a higher level of employment is to increase the number of employees and inactive people to work and lead to all occupations, to provide training and training and to make redundancies more active. A temporary and limited accumulation of unemployment benefit and regional contributions or a wage will also be possible if one succeeds in training for a bottleneck occupation. Transition pathways will be important, as will the application of Article 39ter to make dismissal more reorienting and activating. The second way in which we can get more people to work, and this has often been the subject of discussion here, is another policy for long-term ill workers by giving responsibilities, opportunities and incentives to all those involved and by providing a certain response to all those who need to help.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u36	Mrs De Block, one of the biggest challenges of this government is indeed increasing the level of effectiveness in our country to 80%. Today it runs around 70 %, so that means a big step forward that needs to be taken. You asked the rhetorical question how to do that now. You are talking about bottlenecks which must be filled by leading the unemployed there. You are talking about a limited accumulation between unemployment benefits and a wage from a bottleneck profession. An unemployed person who fills a bottleneck job can apparently - if we read the government notes correctly - retain a quarter of his unemployment benefit for three months. I agree that this transition should be made attractive. The question is, of course, to what extent making a transition attractive becomes a half-subsidised job. Keeping a quarter of the unemployment benefit is not nothing, while the colleague in the workplace does not have that bonus. This difference is particularly great and the question is how to explain to people in the workplace that one job is very heavily subsidised. I also find it odd that a government with a liberal prime minister and you as a Liberal group leader should consider that to be a good thing. Unless you contradict me later, because that's actually my question. Do you not think it is a little overwhelmed that an unemployed person who finally gets to work can keep up with a quarter of his unemployment benefit, which is largely subsidised, rather than facilitating a transition from inactivity to activity? Of course, there are still things. There are many things that can and should be done in the area of labour market policy that are not in the agreement today. When it comes to the flexibility of the labour market, one does not really go beyond saying that one will consult with the social partners to, I say, voluntarily have the 38 hours week carried out by an employee in four days rather than in five days. While that is actually a way to make work a lot more attractive and easier for a lot of employees, who should be able to do so on their own request, for the very simple reason that sometimes it is very useful to organize their own private lives. When it comes to the work-life balance, to put it in beautiful Dutch, these kind of flexibilisation measures are very attractive. But apparently the federal government does not even find the power to decide, because that decision is being postponed for itself. It's the same when it comes to e-commerce. Of course, I understand that the work-life balance must be maintained there. However, there must be at least a chance to organise night work a little more logically without much detour. Today's night work starts at 8:00. Half the year is still broad daylight at that time. I find it odd that night work will start by then. Even there, the federal government does not find the power to move forward. An efficient government should be one of your dadas as a liberal, unless you have also given up that principle. I see that an inter-federal platform will be set up for this purpose, which should enable more workers from one region to operate in another. I have a question for you, Mrs De Block. You will find it testifying to an efficient government to set up such an interfederal platform, whereas it actually already exists in the form of Synerjob. That is the platform on which both the VDAB and Actiris, ADG and FOREM already work together. On top of that, you will organize another platform. I do not understand how you can be proud of a federal government that does not even find the power to effectively decide and implement an activating measure for our labour market. That it is not being carried out, I can lively imagine. After all, it is not even decided. The only thing that is chiseled in stone at the State of the Union of this federal government are the social expenditures that are increasing. We were talking earlier about the affordability of social security. You can ensure affordability in different ways. You can look at the expenditure and try to get it under control in a sensible way. You can also look at income. There are two ways you can do that. You can ask those who work to contribute more. That's what's happening now. But you could also get more people to work. You do that ambition lip service, but I simply note that no decision is taken. Do you therefore contradict me, Mrs De Block, and tell me what decisions have been taken effectively that would reform our labour market so that more people can get to work? Do you think it is an efficient government that the same platform is being organised on top of it on an existing consultation platform? Do you actually think it makes sense that the government is going to subsidise jobs, as is the case with the bottleneck professions? The President: Mr Anseuw, I have given you the floor, please wear your mouth mask again. The same applies to all the other Members in the Chamber. All MPs should wear a mouth mask.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u37	I haven't heard a lot of questions, but you probably already prepared a text. You do not agree with what the current government has decided, and that is your right. However, I support any measure and consultation that encourages people to get a job. Again, I have heard few questions but above all many explanations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u38	Mrs De Block, I have asked you three specific questions, but I have the impression that you have not heard them. However, you gave the impression that you were listening to what I said, but perhaps you weren't. The rest of the day, however, you never gave the impression that you were listening to what was said here. The fact that you do not answer my three specific questions proves my point. Let me ask you a fourth question. You are particularly proud that this government is showing unspeakable ambition with regard to the activation of people. I have seen in the budget table that it is the government's intention, with its new policy, to get 13,500 more people working every year on top of the already existing policy. Recouping effects are included in the budget table. However, when I read the notifications, I see that it is only about 10,000 people. I find that rather confusing, but it's not even that important. I think that, at some point, 10,000 were written in the table with the wet finger. At the end of the negotiations, it was found that the account was not quite correct. Then they added 3.500 again with the wet finger, but they forgot to change their own text. This brings us to the figures of 10,000 and 13,500. However, the fact that the texts submitted by the government are a mess is not the essence. The Federal Planning Office has calculated that next year there will be 15,000 unemployed under unchanged policies, i.e. without the announced new policy on which there will be more questions than answers, since no one knows what it will mean in concrete terms. After all, there is no decision. This government prides itself on the fact that this unbridled ambition must manifest itself in 13,500 people working extra. That actually means that you are very proud of the fact that it is your ambition to have 1,500 more net unemployed next year. Do you actually think that's ambitious, Mrs De Block?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u39	I think you're making a miscalculation. I have not seen this notification here, but the Prime Minister has asked to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u40	Job creation is about the jobs that come on top of the unchanged policy. The Federal Planning Bureau says that next year's policy will be 13,000 jobs, the following year 48,000 jobs and the next year 43,000 jobs. Why do we think it's possible to create 13,000 more jobs? How do we get that figure? 3.000 are the result of what we have already decided to make up the budget, just as we had already decided in July to make savings in the government. Add up to 10,000, that's how one gets 13,000 in total. Why do we think our verdict is justified? I would like to give you five reasons why it is justified. Firstly, minimum wages are rising. Thanks to the social agreement, minimum wages increase to a nice amount on 1 April, with about €50 net added for the group of workers with the lowest wages. Some will argue that this will increase gross costs and will therefore be difficult for companies. No, because in the agreement we concluded, that is compensated. We are therefore ensuring that minimum wages go up and that it becomes more attractive for workers who work hard, often receive the lowest wages and have very difficult working hours, while it remains exactly the same for the employer. The second measure that makes work more attractive is the tax shift for the working middle class through a combination of the work bonus and the reform of the special social security contribution. So there is a package on the tax side, so that it becomes more attractive to work. The third element is labour market reform. You just asked whether it would be interesting to give a premium to the long-term unemployed if they take on a bottleneck profession. I think that is indeed a good measure. Such measures make it interesting for people to take a job after long unemployment. We have a total of 35 measures, together with the Minister of Work, to make it more attractive for people to work, including inter-regional systems, which you probably appreciate. The fourth reason why we believe that our argument is justified is because of the incapacity for work. We now have a very detailed approach to convince workers who have been in a system for too long where they thought they could no longer contribute in any way, that they can now do so. That's four reasons, but do you want another fifth? A fifth reason is investment. We invest a lot. The RRF is almost doubled by additional investments, also by the Flemish government. Perhaps you are wondering how many additional jobs these investments will generate directly. They provide jobs, but more important is the general economic climate. An economy in which investment is made, an economy that looks forward and makes the transition to sustainability, is a thriving economy. A thriving economy provides jobs, which is good for the middle class. For these five reasons, I think it is absolutely justified to say that we are creating a lot more jobs with the government than the 13 000 that the Planning Bureau had mentioned. They also asked what amount we would put on that. That amount is actually very reasonable. A study by the ULB says that every job earns 40,000 euros. The previous government, the Michel government, was counting on 35,000 euros per job. We are a lot more conservative and have chosen 28,000 euros in our calculations, which is roughly in the middle of what the Planning Bureau has announced. We have therefore used a reasonably cautious and conservative calculation. For those five reasons, which I have listed, we believe that we will succeed in achieving that figure at the time we emerge from the crisis and that is happening faster than expected. That's what I put my hand in the fire for.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u41	Prime Minister, you have made a commendable attempt, for which I thank you, to drown the fish in an answer that is not really an answer to my question. Mrs. De Block, you say I can't count. 15,000 minus 13,500 is 1,500, but if you say it's something else, then of course we have a real problem. I said that, under unchanged policies, the Planning Bureau foresees that 15,000 people will become more unemployed next year. You're taking off 13,500, so next year you're still gonna have 1,500 unemployed. I asked the simple question whether you think that is ambitious enough. You answer that you can't calculate that. Bon, of course we have a problem. But it's not that surprising. You are the leader of a government party and you admit that you have not seen the notification. So you stand here defending decisions taken by your government, when you do not know what it has decided, because that is in the notification. What are you standing there for, Mrs De Block? Thirdly, as far as the payback effects are concerned, Prime Minister, it is of course one or the other. If you want to charge 28,000 euros in your budget, per full-time equivalent that you will get extra work done, that is not about the lowest wages, of course, while your five arguments were all about making work attractive to the people with the lowest wages. It is either one or the other: it is either about the lowest wages or not. So you're contradicting yourself. In other words, there is no question of activation measures here, because Mrs De Block has not heard my question. You, Prime Minister, have heard me, so it was not my fault, it was Mrs De Block. Perhaps there is a concentration problem, which can always be done, but there are pills for that. In any case, no activation measures are decided, but a lot of air is included in the budget as a payback effect. The result is that, according to your figures and according to the figures of the Planning Bureau, there will not be, according to mine, net unemployment next year than at present. And that is what the government and Open Vld consider to be particularly ambitious in the head. Well, now my clog is breaking. (Deleted at the request of the President)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u42	I think that is a very personal attack, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u43	Madam President, I've seen someone crawling out of the staff's coffee room today because you walked in the wrong door without a mask. I had a witness, Mr Jean-Marie Dedecker. That's disrespectful, too. You might get away with that, but you can't get away with it with me.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u44	Madam President, I am not the lawyer of the majority government, nor that of my colleague Mrs De Block, but I find that indeed, in this House, attacks involving gross undersenses and personal attacks are unacceptable. As Chair, you have the opportunity to demand that unacceptable words be deleted from the content of the debates. In any case, I ask you to do so because I think things are going too far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u45	I'm happy to do that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u46	Mrs. Fonck, we don't always agree, but we always remain respectful. It was about the long-term sick workers. It is important for them, as has been mentioned here several times today by Minister Vandenbroucke, to know what he or she can and can no longer do. He or she must not focus on what will not succeed anymore. That's the whole idea of the fit note that's gonna come. People are being re-integrated into work. They also think there's nothing left for them. However, it is important to look at the possibilities that people still have. It also examines how people can stay at work or stay at work for longer in degenerative diseases that often affect young people. It's not easy to do that. I know that, too. It certainly won't be possible for everyone either. That's also important to know. That is why there is also the voluntary nature and the importance of good guidance and assistance on the way to work. It's not just necessary. After all, there are many long-term sick and disabled people in our country. In this respect, Belgium scores higher than the average in the European Union. It is important that this group is properly re-integrated and supervised. Initiatives have already been taken, including in terms of prevention, which is also very important, in order to prevent people from falling out, especially because of psychological overload or possible difficulties they face in combining their jobs with their private lives and their social and family lives. It is good that good work is being done on the routes that are still to be started and on the work that is being carried on by the current government and that is a really good dialogue. The government is now working on this with a thorough plan, which is well prepared. It places both employers, employees, all doctors who benefit from it and health insurance funds for their responsibility. Many people who are ill for a long time are asking themselves to be able to do adapted work. They will be better supported and supervised by this government in this search. Work must also pay more, as has already been said here, also by Mr Hedebouw. There's got to be more money. There is the measure taken with regard to the temporary levy from 1994. That is another charge from Mr Jean-Luc Dehaene, a fellow Member of mine. He must not, however, see this particular contribution to social security being extinguished and abolished in the long term. That is indeed important. That contribution is going to disappear, first for the lowest incomes, rightly, and then it will be phased in. Work is important, but it is also about quality of life. Quality of life is also important for people. The difficulty is to find a balance between work, social life and family life. This applies both to young people, with young children, and to somewhat older people like me, with care for grandchildren and parents. Those are difficult moments in life and then one must be able to make choices and organize the work in a way that one finds a balance. It is therefore also important that work can be more flexible and that telework can continue to be a part of it, as well as that it will be possible to spread working time in consultation with the employer every week. It is important that social dialogue should be able to discuss this without taboos. It was asked why this should be done first in the social dialogue. That's how we work in our country. Once the spirits have matured there, it must be possible for people to work more easily. We've learned a lot in these corona times. Better tax deduction for childcare is also important. All these measures should facilitate the reconciliation of work and family life. As far as night work is concerned, if people voluntarily want to work one or more nights because they can better distribute the tasks, this is a good thing for e-commerce. Many jobs in our country flow to neighbouring countries. There is now more than ever bought online. That too is a legacy of corona. Our neighbouring countries, in particular, are creating jobs that we are losing. We will therefore take measures in the area of e-commerce. People who volunteer to work at night should also be able to do so. The training of workers remains an important issue, but more attention is paid to each individual situation. After all, there must be no standstill there too. Constant, good training provides good labour, as we have seen in hospitals, where training and further training are constantly provided. That's where it paid off. Of course, it is better to work together across the different regions. That was one of your questions, too. Why should a platform be created for this? Well, because it's a little weird that for someone looking for a job in Walloon Brabant, while he can find it a few kilometers further in East Flanders, there would be no exchange of data between the VDAB and his Walloon counterpart. It is therefore a good thing that people will be better guided to work in this way. We're also focusing on people getting fired. For them, transition paths will have to provide relief. Again an accompaniment to another job for a number of years or for a whole period. The method consists of getting people to work faster who are discouraged because they have lost their jobs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that this government is trying to get more people to work. More activation, a better work-life balance, more people working and therefore more prosperity. I actually wonder if anyone in this hemisphere would find that a bad thing in itself. Investment is taking place and our budget is also greatly improving. We come from a difficult period and take steps to get back on the right path, including with our budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u47	Mrs. De Block, I have a feeling you're finishing your speech. That is why I wanted to mention a topic. Although I had hoped so, I did not hear anything in your speech on the issue of the colonial past. It is a subject on which I have not heard anything in any of the speeches made by the other group leaders. It's about the issue of the colonial past. As you know, we have set up a special committee in this House, chaired by Mr De Vriendt. I think your party was one of the strong advocates about a year and a half ago. The colonial legacy is something topical. That's really weird because Congo has been independent for 61 years now. However, today we cannot open a newspaper without talking about decolonization. One of the many questions that this country is asked in this connection by the former colonies, but also by people from the diaspora and from the communities that reside here, is a financial question. We are talking about recovery payments. I completely disagree with that question for the sake of clarity. I think that today's ordinary Fleming cannot be held responsible for the crimes committed by the Saxon Coburgs and the Belgian State a century ago, let alone that it should pay for them. Mrs. De Block, I have received a hopeful signal. If I look at your figures in detail in the budget, I do not see any indication of this. There is no budget for such recovery payments. However, for the sake of clarity, I would have liked your confirmation. Can you confirm that this budget does not provide any funds for recovery payments to the ex-colonies or to their diaspora and therefore there will be no such recovery payments in this legislature?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u48	As you know, there is a committee which has discussed in detail how further work will be carried out, namely hearings, written testimonies and a whole series of guests who will come forward to give their testimony. That's why I think you're getting ahead of yourself. Maybe it's something you're handcuffed to. However, I do not see the link with this budget. There is indeed no line for that. If there were a line for that, your question would have been justified. However, I am not going to anticipate matters. I have every confidence in the work this committee will do.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u49	It's a shame you're not giving me any clarity. I was optimistic, but you destroyed my hope on the ground. Open Vld opened Pandora's box and you would have been the ideal person to close it again tonight, but you do not exclude recovery payments. That's too bad.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u50	You give a strange interpretation of what I have said, but I will not anticipate the work of an entire committee. I would not, after all, respect the work that needs to be done there. The hearings have yet to take place, and you are already drawing a conclusion here. What kind of way of working is that? Is the normal ways of working in the Chamber no longer taken into account? If that's what you want to achieve, you're doing well.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u51	You yourself have just made a firm plea for a more respectful approach to each other as MEPs. It is therefore a pity that you are dealing with a substantive question about the budget in this way. You've given me some clarity. There is nothing in this budget, but you do not rule out the possibility that something will come. You provide money for recovery payments by the Flemish taxpayer for the benefit of the diaspora of ex-colonies.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u52	I say that I do not advance on matters and say in advance whether or not that will happen. We await the work of the committee. Is that so hard to understand? Then I am glad that your euro has fallen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is important that, now that the corona crisis is almost over, let us hope at least that all the sails will be added to create jobs, to stimulate our economy and to maintain purchasing power. An effort is being made. For some, it's not enough. It's too much for others. I've heard just about everything today. It is particularly important that we move in the right direction. I am thinking of the demands made at European level. Our country will also invest heavily in creating more jobs in the future. It is important that we also take account of other issues that we are facing. I am thinking, for example, of cybercrime. Even our Assembly has been hit by that this year. We also thought that we had safe systems here, but we also had a scary moment when everything was down here, Madam President. The necessary efforts were made to make it safer here. The safety of our citizens, our businesses, our hospitals is very important. The measures in this area are also being prepared. We also invest in Justice, also a very important department when it comes to security. The Minister will be given resources to accommodate people who have to serve small prison sentences in 15 new detention homes. This has been discussed for a long time, but a budget has now finally been set aside for this. More than a few hundred people can be placed in those detention homes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u53	Mrs De Block, thank you for bringing up the issue of justice, because in the declaration of government, the part relating to justice is rather anecdotal, although the government considers it a priority. I am therefore pleased that you are addressing the issue of detention homes. It was also discussed today in a number of newspapers because the government declaration states that for the first time in more than twenty years all punishments will be carried out. First of all, may I remind you that the Open Vld is one of the few parties that have been in the government continuously for more than 20 years? This is about a law of 2006, reactivated under the Swedish coalition, which will finally be implemented and enter into force on 1 December 2021. The consequences are that at least 400 additional places will be needed. The cabinet of former Minister Geens has calculated that. You're talking about 15 detention homes about an entire legislature. Where will you get 400 seats? How will you carry out the punishments? After all, Haren's prison will not be ready. Neither will Dendermonde's prison be ready in January. The first effects will be felt in January. We are still lagging behind due to the corona crisis. After all, there have been many interruptions that have yet to be overtaken. In addition, there is the classic overpopulation. Then there are the detention homes to which you refer. However, I have read today that according to the Minister, one detention house is likely to open this year. It is estimated that between 20 and 60 people can be received, while from January onwards we will need about 400 places. I agree with you that security is important and that punishment must be carried out. However, where will you find these places by January 2022?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u54	Well, the decision is important and the necessary money is provided for. I leave the execution to the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u55	That question is actually addressed to me and I would like to answer it. Mr De Wit, you know that we will also carry out the penalties effectively. It is a decision that has been postponed on countless occasions, including among the Swedish Government. This government will do what it has to do. The 400 places you refer to are places that will be needed, but over time. It's not like we need 400 places in January. They will be needed step by step and we will open a detention house this year. We hope to add a few more next year. This means that we will have 100 to 150 seats in the course of next year. In September, the opening of Haren, where we win net seats. Dendermonde will also be opened next year. In this way, we will ensure that there are sufficient places to organise the execution of the sentence effectively. Secondly, you know that it is the government's intention to break criminal inflation in the courts by effective punishment, by ensuring that the law is implemented. Specifically, if the judge wants to make sure someone goes to jail today, he's gonna sentence more than three years. Punishments of less than three years are not being carried out. In other words, judges are urged to artificially blow up the penalty. With this decision, we will ensure that the judge is sure that the sentence he delivers will also be enforced. The combination of all these elements ensures that we are prepared to do this properly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u56	Minister, you said that there will be a detention center by the end of the year. May I ask where that will be and how many places it will count? This law will enter into force from 1 December. You may say that it will not immediately be the great surprise, but there will be a lot of them right away. Judgments are handed down on a daily basis and penalties are therefore also handed down. Let us hope that this will not be the longest so that they can be accommodated in detention homes. You're gonna need that space. You can be proud of yourself and say that the punishment will be complete, but you will not have enough places when the law comes into force and the first people present themselves. How many seats do you think you will have by the end of this year, Minister? Where?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u57	As you know, the law will enter into force on 1 December. By the end of January, the first sentences will be served under the new regime. We will ensure that detention works properly by then. At present, the Buildings Control is finalizing the location. The sites will therefore be announced shortly. In the course of next year we will be able to open additional detention homes. We've been looking for locations for a while and having conversations with local authorities, so that's going well. Mrs De Wit, I note that you keep repeating that justice makes promises but doesn't deliver them. At first, you said that the short sentences would never be carried out. In committee, you said you didn't believe that this government would realize that. We'll do that. Then you said you didn't believe there would be enough places. We will work with detention homes, a concept that has been advocated in this Parliament for years. This is a new form of detention, because Scandinavian models show that it leads to less repeated detention. Vzw De Huizen has been advocating this for years. This government will implement it. Thirdly, you are suing that we have no money for the establishment of detention homes. Well, we now have EUR 92 million in the budget for this. So, step by step, we do what we say. As a member of the opposition, you may disagree with the majority, but in fact I would have expected you to call this a step in the right direction. On the other hand, I hear nothing but criticism. To be honest, that doesn't help our prison system or the justice system.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u58	Minister, I have asked you a question to see if you will be able to keep your promises. Do you know your history with the detention centers? In the legislature that started in 2010, then colleague Sarah Smeyers tabled a resolution asking the then government to set up detention homes. I co-signed it. So you cannot claim that you invented the hot water, because that would be very incorrect. I sincerely hope that you will be able to deal with the sentence thoroughly. It is my job to ask you if you have the necessary places. However, I do not get an answer to that question. You cannot therefore blame me for repeating that question. The proof of the pudding is in the eating. We'll see.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u59	Minister, you talked about the enforcement of small sentences. I don't know if you've had any contact with the people on the ground, but they're furious about this policy. You know the situation in our prisons. Overpopulation is dramatic. We get hit on our fingers by all the European bodies on this subject. This policy on the enforcement of small sentences will further increase prison overcrowding. The people on the ground don't know how they'll be able to handle this disaster that comes in addition to the one that already exists. You're saying we're going to build detention houses, which is very good. You also say that you have responded to Mrs De Wit's remarks that these were just promises. But there is something to worry about, minister. Last week, I went to Mons prison. In one of the wings, a cell can accommodate four inmates. The ceiling of this cell collapsed two years ago. It's never been fixed. How can you be believed on your word, when in two years we have failed to repair a cell, when you say that we are going to build detention centres in the blink of an eye to respond to the overcrowding that will be the result of the policy that you are going to put in place. I talked to the prison directors, the unions. This measure makes them angry. They don't see the end. They are already in a very critical situation. We talked earlier about long-term patients. The number of staff absent due to long-term illness is increasing, particularly due to the deplorable working conditions and building conditions. Nothing has changed for years. And today you are putting in place a policy that will further aggravate the situation without measuring its consequences. When I listen to you and listen to people in the field, I see that there are two different worlds. There's a huge gap. Let us doubt your words. Until today, there is only one detention home.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u60	Mr Boukili, you are a man in the Justice Committee, which I appreciate. But we still need to know the file. You're talking about building detention houses. We're not going to build them. We'll rent some and eventually buy some. Then you say there's only one detention home. There are two transition houses: a house in Enghien and a house in Malines. It is Mr Koen Geens who installed them in 2017, it seems to me. These are transitional homes that accommodate people who arrive at the end of their sentence and who, before returning to society, are placed in these places.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u61	I'm talking about detention houses, not houses where we're going to place people who are going to be released.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u62	There are two transitional houses, which are not detention houses. With regard to the latter, a budget of EUR 92 million has been allocated for investments, in particular for infrastructure and to find capacity to manage this situation. On the other hand, it is true that overpopulation exists in our country. Overpopulation has evolved from 20% in the 2010s to 11% today. It's a reality. Today, there are 10,500 inmates for a capacity of 9,400 places. But the government is doing something about it. We will open the Haren prison in September 2022, which will have a capacity of 1,190 places. I add to this the opening of the new Dendermonde prison in 2022. Overpopulation has existed since the 1970s or 1980s. We work on it step by step and add capacity.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u63	In such complicated cases, slogans must be avoided. We feel like we're shaking slogans without taking into account the reality in prisons. I am also contacted by prison directors who are extremely concerned about this measure. It would be too easy to say that some parties are against the execution of sentences. It's not about that. It would be too easy to say that we are lax and that we do not want people to be punished. We're not saying that. The question is whether, in terms of punishment, there is nothing other than prison. There should be no sense of impunity, but there should not be a special prison block, which is known to be a recidivism factory. It is in this spirit that we would like to try to draw your attention to the fact that we can work on something other than pure and simple confinement. I know it's very easy and it certainly reassures a part of the population that this government is safe and that there will be no impunity. But, in doing this, I think we're missing the goal. However, I am astonished by the deafening silence of some of the government's political groups on this point. It says that basically, to punish, there is only prison, there are no alternative modes. Sentencing is not seen as a form of reintegration, of re-learning that can prevent recidivism. As we know, you also said in the Justice Committee, Minister: the prison is currently producing recidivism. So we didn't gain anything except masking the problems and saying that we did the right thing when we didn't do anything at all. It is necessary to go in that direction: not to be lax, but to fight effectively against the feeling of impunity which, it is true, undermines society. But there are other ways to do this than by saying that all sentences will be executed. Move, there's nothing to see, it's the tree that hides the forest.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u64	Mr Boukili would also like to react.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u65	I take advantage of that, in this way, it will be a single answer for both. Indeed, minister, I am not talking about transitional houses. I used the word "construction," but let's say "creation" of detention homes. A problem is added, because there are budgets for buildings etc., but a budget is not clear. This problem is overpopulation. There is also a shortage of staff in prisons. It's something we're dealing with every day. There is the minimum service law when there are strikes, but prisons run every day with a minimum service! That's why they were on strike, to have enough staff to deal with it. My colleague points out that our prisons are recidivism factories. That's quite right. Our recidivism rate is one of the worst in Europe. This is due in particular to the fact that there is no reintegration policy. And there can be no reintegration policy because we do not have the necessary staff to be able to do the job properly. We are talking about the establishment of detention centres, the Haren prison. I doubt that this is a sufficient response to the problems we are facing today, and I also reiterate my doubts that we would be able to create space without counting, when we are unable to repair a cell. Minister, could you give us more details about the staff you are planning to hire today to strengthen prison officers? You're talking about new buildings and, consequently, more staff. Does this mean that there is an amount in your table or budget allocated to recruiting staff? I didn't see him. If so, how many people do you intend to recruit to address these problems?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u66	Madam President, the Prime Minister has just told me that these questions must instead be put in the context of the thematic debate for which Mrs Matz, and you yourself, Mr Boukili, are inscribed. I do, however, answer that. You know me. And if you promise me that with this, the debate is done, I answer it all the more with pleasure! And I am also happy to all parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u67	The other ministers will be less happy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u68	I don't know yet, ma'am. Mrs Matz's speech is quite relevant, ladies and gentlemen, although it is from the opposition. It is true that prison is not always the best answer. That was why the Penal Code, the Criminal Code, had to be reformed, which provided that all offences were punishable by imprisonment. That is not the answer. There must be a category of offences that are no longer punishable by imprisonment. This is the debate we are going to have here in Parliament, and this is an important debate, you are absolutely right. Then, on the fact that the current prisons are recidivism factories, again, the answer is yes. This is obviously not the fault of the staff, not at all. The problem comes from the old infrastructure, and we are making efforts in this area: we are building the prison of Antwerp, pardon, Brussels - Haren - and Dendermonde. Together with my colleague Mathieu Michel, we signed the construction of a new prison in Antwerp, where the situation is disastrous, as our colleagues in Antwerp know. It is also planned to renovate Bourg-Léopold prison. It is therefore a multi-year plan for which we have identified the means. What do we intend to do in the short term? To reduce recidivism, Ms. Matz and Mr. Boukili, we need to invest in accompaniment for inmates. Today, we wait until the end of the prison sentence to start accompanying the detainees. This support must be started from the beginning. We have planned a supplement of nearly 200 staff members for this purpose. For example, in Haren prison, which will open next year, we have provided for the function of protective assistant, a function of detention attendant. Rather, this person will be a role model for the inmate. We have a clear agreement with the unions: we also want to fill out all the vacancies. All vacant places must be filled. We have just hired a new Director of the FPS Justice, particularly for human resources. She's a brilliant woman. It comes from SNCB and Finance. She's done wonderful things. It's a talent of our society. I'm not gonna name her, because she's gonna say I'm exaggerating. We will speed up the procedures for filling vacancies. Often it takes too long. We will also initiate an employment branding for Justice, starting at the end of November, to attract people. We will also talk about better working conditions for prison officers. Madam President, to finish with this cell in Mons prison, I apologize for not having the exact answer at the moment. I've already visited half of the 35 prisons in a year. You do, too, Mr. Boukili. Thank you. That's good. As parliamentarians, you have the right to visit prisons. We have to do it. Colleagues, we have to look at the situation. There are prisons where it works well. There are some where the situation is dreadful. This is the case in Antwerp, where I went twice. As for the situation in Mons, it is true that it is overcrowded. I also visited Lantin. I'm not going to quote them all. So I'm going to check on this situation. As you know, I am also a man who, when he hears something, intervenes and tries to solve the problem as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u69	Minister, should I remind you that we are in the general debate? This rule is really difficult to apply today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u70	Madam President, I wanted to ask my colleague Maggie De Block if she could continue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u71	It's getting to the point, Mrs. De Block.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u72	We remain with the Justice Department with another important yard, which is being launched, namely the reform of criminal law to bring it to the 21st century, for which the draft is for discussion in committee. An important element is the actualisation of the approach in criminal law of intra-familial and sexual violence, which was the subject of a lot of discussion in the Chamber following testimonies on this subject. I will not dwell on the measure concerning footballers. Some might consider it to be symbolic; it is certainly important for our party to apply fairer taxation and to tackle excesses in this area too. It's a good thing the years old taboo was killed, too. Can the measure be extended to other sectors? Yes. In any case, what we are doing must be in line with European state aid rules.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u73	The budget table refers to many fiscal measures. I will not go back on the big extra tax package for 2022. However, I have the following question for you and your party, which I have also asked CD&V and the Minister of Finance. One of the shipyards in the coalition agreement is the major fiscal reform. In doing so, you adhere to the principle that it should be budget-neutral and that there should be a shift in the tax burden, not an increase. However, if you abolish a whole bunch of tax benefits every year and increase taxes, there will be very little left for a shift at the end of the ride. My fear, therefore, is that such a major tax reform can be nothing but a heavy tax increase. So I would like to know from you or from the Prime Minister, who referred to it yesterday in his State of the Union, whether that tax reform is actually going to happen. I fear that we will have to do with what is now in the budget regarding the special contribution of Social Security (BBSZ) and the working bonus, namely by 2023 a reduction of 300 million, that's it, nothing anymore, while the major tax reform is no longer for this team. I have a very simple question for Open Vld and you, Prime Minister, will there be a major fiscal reform, or may Minister Van Peteghem confine himself to the blueprint, as you yourself say?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u74	Minister Van Peteghem has always been very clear about this. He also always adheres to the coalition agreement, which is the basis that binds the seven parties. It clearly states that a tax reform will be prepared. They've been working on that for a couple of months. That preparation will be discussed in the government. As Mr Van Peteghem often says, if one really wants to work thoroughly and take the right steps, one must take the time to do so. Let me give you an example of our reform of company car taxation. In my view, this is a very good reform, as it clearly indicates where we are going. We now know that the tax advantage from 2026 will only apply to zero-emission cars and there is a path to it. In this way one cannot be put before facts, but one can change one's behaviour. What Mr Van Peteghem is doing is preparing the reform. I will not anticipate the facts. You are asking whether the fiscal reform will be in place for this legislature. You must not put words in our mouths that we have never spoken. The great fiscal reform is being prepared, indeed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u75	Amateur athletes and youth work were deliberately spared here and that is important, because we also need to give up the opportunities for upcoming sports talent in our country. In relation to the energy bill, we are satisfied with the government's efforts to help the consumer pay the heavy energy bill. First of all, the government does this for those who have the hardest time. There will be an extension of the social tariff to nearly 1 million families and an additional winter discount. At the same time, steps are also being taken to introduce the energy standard. It is important not only for the citizens' energy bill but also for companies, which are also affected by energy prices and which must be able to safeguard their competitiveness vis-à-vis other countries. Colleagues, in summary, the government will first work to make the job engine run better by giving people opportunities, by providing more support, by carrying out reforms and investing. Each Party of the Government has made its contribution to the Conclave. The government partners dared to transcend their own shadow. There were no taboos. Each party has worked constructively, and that is a very grateful and time-consuming method, which presupposes a great deal of respect and confidence in every partner that he or she will carry out what has been decided. Call it the Croo method, which led to this agreement. We are very pleased that this method has certainly resulted in the budget and the government declaration. That is why, if you are still asking the question, we are happy to give our trust to the government on behalf of Open Vld tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u76	Today's debate shows many similarities with last year's debate, but the challenge of a year ago was completely different. A year ago, almost day by day, we faced an unprecedented challenge. Our country stood for the second corona wave with a lot of uncertainties. The task at that time for the new government was very clear, namely to fight the virus. It had to act quickly and decisively, with a number of difficult, hard but necessary measures. Remember how our citizens could barely meet anyone else on Christmas Eve. I think it is important to stress that solidarity has been the key to getting us out of the crises. There was solidarity of strong social security with support for businesses, families and entrepreneurs when they needed it. There was the solidarity of all those who have followed the rules, who have been vaccinated and who still follow the rules. Solidarity of all volunteers who have done everything in their power to ensure that people can get their shot as soon as possible. Solidarity, not to mention, of all the people in the care, who worked hard day by day to save lives and who, over and over again, every new wave, found the courage to keep doing it. It is important to emphasise this. It is a year ago, it seems far away, but solidarity, ladies and gentlemen, that is doing your part and getting your share back. That's what you've been vaccinated for, and you've been given freedom to do so. But that freedom, it has been about it before, is not guaranteed everywhere, it has not been acquired everywhere. If we look in our country, 75% of the population is vaccinated. That can go up, that is certainly not enough. But if we look at the other side of the world, for example in Congo, the vaccination rate is 0.02%. It's incredibly low. Our country has already donated two million vaccines, which is good, but if you hear those figures, you can only conclude that more is needed. Donating vaccines is good, but structural solutions are better. That is why Minister Kitir is working on structural solutions, together with partners. They are working on building factories that can produce vaccines themselves, because that will be the solution. Whether it be factories in Senegal, South Africa, Rwanda, that is what Minister Kitir is working on.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u77	Mrs Depraetere, I did not intend to intervene, but you yourself are concerned about the fact that charity is not enough and that structural solutions need to be found. My question is therefore what Vooruit's contribution is to the real structural solutions that the Third World countries are asking for. What is your position and the Belgian Government's position on the lifting of patents? I do not know if you were there just now, but yesterday it was argued at the Belgian Embassy in South Africa because Belgium is one of the countries that would block the lifting of patents on covid vaccines, which would be a structural solution. You're in that government, what do you think?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u78	Mrs Merckx, I thought I said it before. As a party, we are in favour of lifting those patents. However, we are also working in the government, according to what is possible within that majority, on a solution. Donating vaccines is not a structural solution, but it is a quick solution. We are also working on the structural solution of building factories to support them, to start them up, so that they can produce vaccines themselves. That is the most important task. Minister Kitir also works with partners, with entrepreneurs, who use their expertise so that these countries can produce themselves. That's the job, and that's what our minister is doing. It is quite clear, and we are absolutely in agreement: our safety here is only guaranteed if the virus does not get free play on the other side of the world. This is something people are very aware of: it is absolutely necessary to ensure that everyone is safe. That's the only way we're gonna be here. Mr Prime Minister, the government has dealt with the health crisis and the economic crisis. The government has put an end to more than one and a half years of political stagnation. With this investment budget, the government is also actively addressing a number of reforms. This government has proved that for the past year. Even in times of crisis, health crisis and economic crisis, this government has invested heavily in the purchasing power of our people. Whether it is about pensions, wages or invoices, everyone knows how important this is to my group and we have done it. That's why the minimum pension is going up to 1,500 euros net. That is definitely what we promised, it is being introduced step by step. On 1 January, minimum pensions in our country will rise to 1.421 euros. That is hundreds of euros more a year compared to the start of this government. And that is an incredibly important achievement.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u79	That's why the minimum wage goes up, for the first time in eight years. We promised it in the wage agreement, it has been decided, and we are now implementing it step by step. On 1 April, 76 euros per month will be added for the people with the lowest wages. And that is not the end point because in 2024, too, in 2026, there is a further 35 euros per month. That's how we make the difference for a lot of people. What is also important is that we not only look at the lowest incomes. We ensure that the incomes of many people increase, with a reduction of EUR 300 million. We're gonna make these people better. Protecting purchasing power, colleagues, is not just by looking at income, by increasing those pensions and wages. For this, we also need to look at expenditure, at invoices, at energy bills, for example. That's what this government does. The Vooruit Group had already taken an important step with my colleague Kris Verduyckt's bill, which means that people are no longer trapped in old, expensive, dormant energy contracts. After the sharp increase in prices over the last few weeks, it was clear that more is needed. For us, it was also very clear that the additional revenues generated by the price increase should not go to the government. That would be fundamentally unfair, and that was our starting point at the start. Ladies and gentlemen, that is also what this government is doing with the decision on the energy bill. We will ensure that for two million people, that is not a small group of people, the social tariff is extended and strengthened. For every family, we also ensure that they are better protected against price increases, price fluctuations, but also from malpractice by energy suppliers. That is an important point for everyone. For the sake of clarity, there are other measures for us to deal with this energy bill. It is no secret and everyone knows that we have other measures in mind. But at a time like this, you can either choose not to do anything, or choose to find a solution that helps a lot of people move forward. And that's exactly what we did here. Mr Hedebouw just spoke in his speech about a tweet of Test Purchase, in which they would have said that more needs to be done for the middle class. I saw that tweet, too, and I don't think the whole story was told. Test Purchase said very clearly that the federal government is taking a number of important steps here for the energy bill. But there are also a lot of taxes and charges at the Flemish level. And even there, more will indeed be needed to ensure that that energy bill for the middle class can be further reduced. That was very clear the message from Test-Achats. All I can do is back that message up. If the Flemish level also does its part, the invoice can be even lower. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, tens of thousands of people on the streets on Sunday are concerned about our climate. I was there myself, too. I heard today that it seems impossible, but I was there as well. I've been listening to these people's messages. They feel that politics is doing too little. They are right: politics has for years failed to make real choices. And by not investing in renewable energy, people are paying the price. By not taking the extreme weather conditions and their consequences seriously, people are now paying the price. By not making it a priority to isolate houses, people are now paying the price. That is why, after the health crisis, this government must also tackle the climate crisis. It's not easy. We don't do it because it would be simple, we do it because it's necessary. It will only succeed if we dare to let go of the existing dogmas. No sacred houses, no policies that leave people behind. It will only work effectively with a social climate policy. The battle for climate does not stop at the border either. This summer there were not only extreme weather conditions in our country. Not only here there were floods, also elsewhere the dikes break. Forests were also on fire in other places or there was extreme drought. I am therefore pleased that Minister Kitir is also addressing the fight against climate change in the Sahel, with the priority of planting more trees and investing in climate change. It's not charity, it's absolute necessity. It is there to start the economy, invest there and tackle the climate. It is also a socially just climate policy that will be important to us. The Minister frees an annual amount to specifically invest in it. We cannot stress enough how important that will be. In our country too, more is needed and more is possible, much more. That is why EUR 250 million is being invested in rail, EUR 150 million extra in the renovation of buildings and subsidies on polluting diesel are also being reduced. Some think it's too much, others think it's too little. When it comes to climate ambitions, I think it can always be more. It is, of course, the responsibility of all the governments in this country, but it can always be a little more. Concrete measures and solutions are included in this investment budget. It is up to all of us to implement this and make it a priority. Colleagues, ever since we got out of our barn, I've been moving around in my province of West Flanders. I'm visiting businesses on the premises. The PVDA will be happy to hear it. You're not the only ones going around on the property. I went around companies to listen to the workers, the workers and the entrepreneurs in the workplace. They always come back to the same point. Everywhere one passes, in the concrete industry, in care or in the food industry, the same problem always comes back. This is the problem of an unsustainable, high workload on the one hand and the problem that companies no longer find staff to recruit on the other. One then comes into a vicious circle where companies do not find new staff and the staff present have to do the work with fewer hands. This means more work with fewer people, which increases the pressure on them and sometimes leaves them long-term. This increases the pressure on the remaining workers and increases the workload once again. As a result, the problem remains. We want to break this vicious circle, and that is what this government is doing. We invest in people. Much has already been said about this today. We want to tackle this problem, which comes back everywhere, every visit, hence the historic package of measures around the long-term sick. This is about a global approach. That is important to stress. It's not meant to fish one person or just not do that. It is about a total package in which people are at the centre and everyone is doing their part. Each actor is partly responsible for it to work. Employers must ensure that people are less ill for a long time. The mutualities must guide the people. The regions must do their part through the employment services. The doctors do their part by seeing what people can do instead of staring blind at what they can't do anymore. Workers will also have to make an effort. They will have to ensure that this process succeeds, also in their own interest. Those 10 percent of people who really can and want to do it should be able to get back to work effectively. It also goes a lot further than this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u80	Mrs Depraetere, a great deal has already been said about the long-term sick and the sanctioning. You say it's about helping. I won't repeat everything again. But when I hear Mr Lachaert and Mr Van Quickenborne from the Open Vld say that this is an historic agreement that will also be sanctioned, I think it is mainly about that symbol of sanctioning. However, Vivaldi also has certain ambitions in budgetary terms. Last year there was EUR 200 million less expenditure for the long-term unemployed. You have increased that to EUR 481 million less expenditure on paying sick people. There is also another ambition for which sp.a was known, at least when you were still wearing the name sp.a. Now it's Forward. I'm talking about the famous pill plan about which it's very quiet right now. We don't hear about that either. When I look at the bugittary table, I see that the ambition of the vivalidi government a year ago was barely EUR 250 million by 2024. This year it's still the same. Where social security has been decided to hunt down the sick and cut expenditure, the ambition towards the pharmaceutical industry remains very modest. I'd like to repeat what was in the sp.a.'s pill plan. A plan for which Vooruit is much less to be found. The prices would be limited and the contracts would be abolished. There would be full transparency. Today there are a lot of secret contracts that go through. I've been asking questions about that for months and I don't get to know it in full. There are a number of answers to written questions that I am still waiting for. My question to you is when will you reactivate the pharmaceutical industry because it is going to run with a lot of social security money?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u81	Mrs Merckx, the Minister replied to your first question on the EUR 400 million. The Minister explained that we have the ambition to make this plan work and that there is a budget for it. There would be little point in putting things first if one thought that it was not going to be a success. We're not gonna assume that. The calculations have also been carefully made. The Minister explained that. You say you haven't seen much of the pill plan. I would like to remind you that we are only one year away and that our Minister for Health has had a covid crisis. In the meantime, he is also working on a reform for the doctors and a better reimbursement for psychic well-being and dental care. He's also working on a number of things from this pill plan. It's not because a year later and after a covid crisis, people haven't heard about it anymore. Take, for example, the medicine that saved baby Pia. You may have heard that a solution was found last week. They were there together with the pharmaceutical sector to break that contract. They did choose to make a refund. The pill plan and making medication accessible for everyone is, of course, still being worked on. I think you understand that the Minister has plans in the pipeline as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u82	Mrs. Depraetere, I just heard you mention dental care. I would like to talk about that. It's very good that it's called now. Last year's policy paper didn't mention it at all. We have made a point on this as a group. We have tabled a recommendation on this subject. I am glad that this is at least being considered because we have a problem with access to dental care. The threshold for dental care is enormous in Belgium. It is true that in Belgium more people delay dental care for financial reasons than on average in Europe. That's why I'm wondering what your solution is? All I've seen appear is a VAT increase on dental care and the plan around the dental hygienists. The third group of dental hygienists has already graduated in Flanders. In Wallonia, the first batch will graduate next year. There is still no financial framework for those dental hygienists which, of course, does not lower the threshold. They have actually been created to ensure that preventive care becomes much more accessible. But because they do not have a RIZIV number and there is no refund, the threshold is very high and it is only accessible to the happy few. That can't be the answer. I was wondering if the solution might be in the third-payer scheme and should this lower the threshold? It can't be because what's the problem with dental care? We have a lot more than just consultations. Dental care consists of many types of treatments when looking at the nomenclature. The problem is that in Belgium 57% of dental care has to be paid out of their own pockets. That is much more than in the Netherlands where it is about 20 percent and in Germany where it is about 25 percent. As long as we don't do anything about it... We have an outdated nomenclature that ensures that many treatments, either very little or not at all, are refunded. As long as we do nothing about it, a third-party payment scheme will help nothing and the threshold will remain the same. So I wonder what the plan is for dental care? I heard it mentioned yesterday by a colleague with whom I was in a debate. So there's got to be something, but I'm wondering what?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u83	I'd like to come back to something else. Perhaps Mrs Depraetere will be able to answer the questions about dental care later. The covid crisis has indeed been addressed for a year, and that was the priority. Of course, I think that's only more than usual. But then comes the real work as you have told us. As a government and as a socialist minister, we will, of course, be setting priorities. It has been predicted that, due to the secret contracts that have been awarded to Mrs De Block and which are still going through, we will need EUR 1.4 million extra for medicines. Last week the Christian Mutuality published another study that consumes 10 medicines, 17% of the pharmaceutical budget. That's all about drugs that are under those secret contracts and this has been going on for years. The fact that we pay for those drugs so expensive is a real hold up our social security. For me, that should be the priority of a socialist minister. He should work on the prices of drugs and lower them and make them more accessible. The threat to our social security should be reduced in this way. The hunt for the long-term sick should not be the first priority. I'm really disappointed in that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u84	Of course, that's a very false contradiction you're making. On the hunt for the long-term sick, the Minister and many speakers have long rejected the arguments. You can repeat that until long into the night, but I think we have already had that debate. I'll come back to the question about dental care. Indeed, that should be more accessible. It is 75 percent more expensive than in other countries. That is why a budget is set aside for this and the reimbursement is improved. The questions that I am now being asked are more appropriate for the thematic debates. The Minister will be delighted to explain in detail how he will do this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u85	Thank you very much for that answer. I understand that you cannot tell us the details of this, but perhaps how much money will be allocated to it. Because it is so often mentioned, I would have thought there would be a clear plan of action, but apparently not.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u86	I'm just saying this belongs in the thematic debate. I'm not saying there's no plan for that. That's another message. I can tell you that EUR 144 million extra is provided for care. Obviously none of that goes to dental care. Part of that goes to the digitisation of our care, part to a virus database and part to the reimbursement of dental care. That's a priority for the minster, and that's what his plan says. You can ask him all the details about this later. You know the Minister. He will very much like to give the details and is perhaps already eager to do so. Madam President, I propose that I continue with my point on the labour market. It goes a lot further than just the long-term sick. A few weeks ago, my colleague Anja Vanrobaeys already put a number of things on the table. It is good to see that it is now being built on from this budget. We choose to support people extra. How do we do that? We do that by letting people plan their work week more freely. Work and private life can therefore be better coordinated. They also get a chance to work at home with clear agreements and with a right to deconnection. We also ensure that they are given a right to training. We place people at the centre of this process and we also ensure that people have net more left over. This package of measures will make sure that everyone who is working really improves on it. There is going to be reform and modernisation of the labour market, which is true, because we are not moving forward at a standstill and we are not ensuring that the group of people at work improves on it. Colleagues, an investment budget, such as the budget now before us...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u87	Mrs Depraetre, you had my attention just now, when you said that you visited companies and started talking to people. Most of all, you heard that people couldn't handle the workload anymore. Then you stopped and brought up the long-term sick. I thought the story would go on. I wanted to hear what you'd learned and what you'd do about it, but then we got a whole explanation about the care. Now you're trying to go over that in two seconds. Something may need to be rearranged, because we need to go with time. I notice that you are referring to flexibilisation or perhaps you will discuss it in your remaining four minutes, but I do not want to miss that, nor do I want to miss the four-day week. This morning, I was at a picket at Lidl's at 6:00. The people there knew how to tell me that all the appointments that were made... They have been on the frontline in the corona period. Now suddenly they have to work nine hours one day and ten hours the next day. Then someone else falls ill and needs to be replaced. One must do more, one must now also bake and brush in the shop. There will be flexibility à volonté. That's right. Do you know what happened? Yesterday there was an attempt at reconciliation in the Ministry. Turns out what? They wouldn't give in. Where did you get from the conversations that these people have workable work? We know there are a lot of pickets, not for the first time. We're on a weekly picket line with our colleagues. None of you ask the question: what do we do with that? What are you doing? You want them to work more hours a day, voluntarily. As you know, I have not only been a trade unionist in one of the largest automobile companies, I have also given training in the trade union. I've seen hundreds of delegates and militants pass through. Do you know what "voluntary" means in a company? Have you asked those people before? Voluntarily means "you will, or we will find another." We heard Mr Dedecker earlier. Lidl drives vans around, but can't find people. Of course not. Are you going to work there, Mr. Dedecker? I don't. With an employer who treats me like this, I'm not going to work. I'm not a piece of dirt that needs to be treated like this. If you want to work people and if you want them to work well for you, you will have to pay them and, secondly, have to deal with them in a decent way. What are we doing here? We'll open the door. I have a question for you on this too, because you are rolling the ball to the social partners. We've already heard the ABVV today. They didn't want to talk about it. What Voka wants, I already know through the Flemish Interest and the N-VA. They will certainly agree, but what will you do if the social partners do not agree?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u88	Thank you for your question, Mr Colebunders. I can't help but notice that you're always trying to frame everything negative. If it becomes a little more flexible, it's negative. If people coordinate work and private work in a different way, it is already negative in advance. Well, that's not what I've always heard. Of course, guarantees are needed. That seems logical to me, but that's not what I've always heard. I've also seen people in the companies who have children in co-parenting. They ask that in the week when the children are not with them to be able to work more hours in order to have to work less hours in the other week. What can you possibly have against that? It's like a job and a personal match. That is to the advantage of the people who ask for it themselves. Does that have to be guaranteed? Yes, of course. You say we're gonna pass the ball on to the social partners. Imagine if we didn't. What would you say? Of course, we involve the social partners, but we assume that we can find a solution. You assume that there will be a conflict and no solution. That's a different attitude.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u89	That's the difference between you and me. I'm a union man. I live on the property.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u90	Yeah, and we never get there.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u91	I've lived 30 years of my life on the property.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u92	We never get there, Mr Colebunders, ever.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u93	I know what's alive. What you're trying to do is actually what you're blaming me for. You know a few people in co-parenting. I know a guy who's 100 years old. Does that mean everyone's gonna be 100 years old?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u94	I have just heard Mr Hedebouw talk about (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u95	(...) and Mr Van Quickenborne will join in the hand. He's never seen a factory inside. You don't know what that is, "voluntarily." You've never been in there!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u96	(...) I worked in factories as a job student!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u97	As a job student? Have you been washing dishes? I know another one of those. Congratulations! If you want more conflicts, you're here. You're applying for more conflicts. You gave me the best example in January, when you said that you were leaving it to the social partners. They were allowed to negotiate, as long as it was up to 0.4%, with the knife on the throat. That is what you leave to the social partners. You take sides for Voka and not for the common man. There are 500,000 extra sick. Why is that? You heard that in the factories. We're out of people. With all that flexibility, you won't solve it. I don't.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u98	You asked me what I did in a factory. You said I washed up there. I'm not gonna take you laughing at people who wash dishes. I'm not gonna take that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u99	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u100	And you will let me speak now!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u101	(...)! I'd be ashamed!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u102	Madam President, Mr Colebunders is trying to be right by starting to shout and shout. That's not the right style, sir. I don't take it that you put people who wash dishes in the corner that way. What is also very clear to me is that there is indeed a great difference between the two of you. What Mrs Depraetere brings is modern socialism. That's how we move forward in our country. What you bring is old-fashioned communism. That's the difference.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u103	As for being modern or old-fashioned, I've worked at the airport my whole life. I hold my heart for what you propose regarding flexibilisation. I see how bad it is at the airport. People start from midnight to 22 hours every half hour with new timetables. People get an hour schedule sometimes one day in advance. Sometimes they only know one day in advance, via a message, how they will have to work the next day. That's what's happening at the airport right now. That is the modern flexibility you are talking about. People no longer have any impact on their social and family lives. That's what's happening out there. I know that from experience and I hear that in many stories every day.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u104	I would just like to recall what has been agreed upon. We debate once again from parliamentarians to parliamentarians or from parliamentarians to ministers, and we forget the speaker who wishes to continue her speech. At one point, we must bring things back to what was agreed at the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u105	Mrs Vindevoghel, your party was formed a long time ago and, like your party, we have always fought the same battle for social progress. Only the road to it is different for us. For your party it is always all or not and then one ends nine out of ten times with nothing. It's different for us. We have ensured the development of social security, better working conditions and now an increase in the minimum wage and pension. We made sure of that. That's the difference. It will never be enough for you, and I understand that. It will never be enough for the PVDA. I understand that position of the PVDA, because what else can they say with socialists in the government who achieve all their points and ensure that people do indeed benefit socially?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u106	I think that Mr Colebunders' question is quite right to ask what will happen if the social partners do not get out of it. Your answer was rather sloganical that you are all positive people and not negative. You repeat that you assume that the social partners will reach an agreement. But if you are so positive, why did you include a clause on this in the government statement? In other words, you have doubts about that. That is why I think that I would like to repeat Mr Colebunders' question as to what will happen if the social partners do not get out of it. Again, you are asking Parliament for confidence. So we should at least have a look at what you have all discussed. It's hard to imagine you haven't thought about a plan B. If the social partners fail, the government will have to decide. It is only a sign of a sound policy that you already have an idea of what you will do at that time. You pride yourself on being part of a government in which the socialists make all their points. Mr Colebunders, you can apparently sleep on both your ears. I would like to hear from the Prime Minister whether it is indeed agreed that if the social partners do not get out, the sossen will get what they want. That is what Mrs Depraetere just said.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u107	Mr Loones, I have just answered the question of what will happen if the social partners fail to reach an agreement. It is a method which is often used: the social partners are given room and we hope that they will reach agreements. This is very often the case. If the social dialogue does not work out, what should we do? Do we have to accept that, because there is no agreement? That would be the biggest waste ever. It is therefore normal that, if there is no agreement, the matter should be put back on the table of the government and that the government should implement the intention of the agreements that have been made. Then there will be a decision in the government, just as it happened for example for IPA, which was absolutely not a simple file. It was a very sensitive dossier, where we finally implemented a good decision. I just answered the question that way. Perhaps you were not present at the time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u108	Prime Minister, I now think I have heard something extra in your reply. You say that if they do not get out, the intention of the mandate given to the social partners will be fulfilled. Well, I'd really like to know what that intention is? Where do you really want to go? Where do you set the bar?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u109	One of the measures mentioned by Mrs Depraetere is, for example, to ensure that there are better agreements between employees and employers on working time, for example, one week working harder and one week working less hard. The social partners know the working environment best to work out exactly how to organise it. If there is no agreement, then what is the government's intention? The government's intention is to make it possible to work harder by mutual agreement for a week and to work less hard for a week. We would then implement that. [[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u110	Mrs Depraetere has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u111	Of course, an investment budget also requires efforts. We can't just let go of everything because we're from a time of crisis. We will get the money where it is, by pulling out the card of just taxation. The fundamental injustice in which top athletes have to pay less social contributions than any employee we finally tackle. The absurd rules whereby a top athlete can take up a supplementary pension at the age of 35 finally go on the kicks. Mr Vandebroucke has been fighting for this for years. We're doing something about that now. The great abilities also contribute more. The securities tax was labeled as an empty box by the PVDA last year. That wasn't gonna work and it wasn't gonna work. Meanwhile, it brings hundreds of millions into the drawer and we make sure that it is an important effort in the work that the federal government is doing here. We're seeing a trend break with the past. For years we, the Flemish socialists together with the PS, have been calling for investment in times of crisis. Years ago, in 2008, it was chosen to do that differently. There was blind savings instead of smart investment. We still see the consequences of that. We're not making that choice right now. Now we choose very clearly to invest in people's care, climate and prosperity. That's a very conscious choice. I'm rounding up. This government has the ambition to restore faith in politics. I also believe this can be done. Then we'll have to work with results. Then we need to find solutions, not just words. We have to ensure that we do what we do and that we do what we do. We absolutely must do that, and that is an assignment that we all have here together. We only have one chance. Too many people think politicians don't listen to them. Too many young people still feel that they will not be as good as their parents. We need to get rid of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u112	Thank you for your plea for cooperation. You say that together we must ensure that confidence in politics is restored. Who are you addressing? Only to the majority, or are you also reaching out to the opposition? I ask you this question because you know what we went through a week ago in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. How often are opposition proposals without fundamental contradictions, without ideological differences not automatically encountering a no? Such legislative proposals are blocked or postponed and sometimes even renewed. You're in favour of cooperation. Who are you addressing? Are you also addressing us or just a part of this assembly?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u113	Mr Freilich, this message is addressed to everyone in the assembly. It is not true that no proposal was adopted in which the opposition cooperated. I'm gonna make another attempt at conclusion. Colleagues, we can restore faith in politics by pursuing a policy that works for people, by investing in care, climate and prosperity, by ensuring that through reforms we get more people to work, with higher wages, but also with fair contributions of great abilities. What is ahead now is an agreement for the future, an agreement for the people. I would like to refer to the words of the Prime Minister yesterday in the decision of his State of the Union: 'This is an agreement that will benefit everyone'. That is why he can count on the support of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u114	Mrs Depraetere, I would not like my evening if I did not take the floor now, because you seem to miss me. We started at 10:00, and it's 00:30, so we're at 14.5 hours. I spent an hour and a half with my colleague Lachaert on my way back and forth from the VRT. So you missed me for an hour and a half, and that immediately gave rise to a cry of hearts on your part. That bothers me very much. I've waited until the end of your beautifully constructed presentation. What surprises me a little from someone from the Socialist Party is that you have only used the word pensions for what has happened in the past. What has already been agreed, namely the evolution to EUR 1,500, is actually a discussion that has already ended, because that decision has already been taken. This gives us the impression here that the pension story has ended. You say no, but you have not used your 20 minutes to touch that theme, just as the Prime Minister in his State of the Union did not drop the word pensions. A lot of people in this country have found that amazing. On 1 September 2021, Mrs Lalieux would come forward with a retirement plan, as stated in the government agreement. We can say what we want about the coalition agreement, but Mrs Lalieux effectively used 1 September 2021 to come out with a pension plan. To claim that the plan was received on all banks on applause is perhaps somewhat exaggerated. The plan wasn't discussed either. There weren't any calls, either. It wasn't prepared. It was a coup de théâtre. We have not heard much about this since then. The Prime Minister stated that he would conclude that debate in the government. Apparently, he himself was surprised at the initiative of his Minister for Pensions, who at that time was rather the PS Minister for Pensions. He indicated that by the end of 2021 the government would come forward with a number of things. We are also discussing the budget and the intentions for 2022 today. If the Prime Minister is silent on that point, and even the Pensioners' Party, which is an image that you like to attach to yourself, namely the party that defends the interests of pensioners, then that is obvious. I also did not hear Mr Laaouej explain incredibly much about pensions. He simply stated that Mrs Lalieux's ideas were not only interesting but also necessary. "Needless" was the word he used. Those ideas were necessary. For the PS, pension plans must move towards Lalieux. That was not really a surprising explanation, but it is good that you have confirmed that. You didn't bother to touch the theme. You were about to leave the chair. That's why I waited until the last minute. However, I would like to draw you up on the issue of pensions. After all, there is not a single euro in the budget on this issue, nowhere. Mr Laaouej suggested that this was not a budgetary exercise. I would like to go along with that, but I can imagine that pension reform has budgetary implications. A government is not going to carry out a pension reform from a budget, but a pension reform does change the budget. This means that today and tomorrow we will agree on a government statement which actually indicates today that there will be no pension reform in 2022. After all, nothing has been registered for that. No budget line provides for more or less euros for pensions. I don't know what direction things are going to go. This is not mentioned in all languages, which is particularly striking. But maybe it won't happen at all in 2021. The Government Agreement states that it would have been phased out by the Government on 1 September 2021. However, Minister Lalieux made a spout, on which the Prime Minister decided that it would be for the autumn. Prime Minister, did you mention a year? "In autumn' may also be autumn 2022 or 2023. At the moment we have to assume, because of a total lack of figures and, since you do not mention it, because of your disinterest in the subject, that we do not have to expect anything more. Isn't there anything we can expect? Is that something without any budgetary implication? At least that is what we can draw from the tables that are to be voted on on Thursday afternoon.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u115	Mr De Roover, we have been listening to the debates for 14 hours and listening to you from a distance. In this Chamber, the debates are serious and we would like them to be worthy of the twenty-first century, so that sexist statements are no longer made in this chamber and that each colleague is respected in what he is and not qualified by his type. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u116	I ask for the floor for a personal statement. I'm mild, especially at this hour. I suppose it's your lack of knowledge of the Dutch language and your lack of humor that lies at the origin of your intervention. So I'll forgive you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u117	Mr De Roover, I think the pretext of language is a little easy!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u118	Mr De Roover, I must disappoint you because we have already had that debate. Maybe you weren't there just then. However, I am certainly prepared to repeat a few points. I referred to the decision already taken for the short term, namely the increase in the minimum pension. Of course, it has a budgetary impact, that is obvious. The long-term reform is unlikely to have a budgetary impact in 2022. There will of course be budgetary control. I do not think that there is anything in the tables about this, because it is not in the agreement on this budget. The debate is still taking place. Reference was made to the autumn. I agree that this is the kind of debate that we need to conduct thoroughly and for which we can take the time. This debate will therefore be held in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u119	Mr De Roover, you are someone who knows many themes well, but pensions may not be so good after all. One of the characteristics of pensions is that they really need to be kept separate from a budgetary debate. This is now the budget for 2022. How do pensions work? People claim their pension one year in advance. From the moment one applies for a pension, nothing can change during that period. Should it now be the intention to undertake reforms with regard to pensions that have an impact on the 2022 budget, that would be completely alien. After all, nothing can be adjusted which would have any impact on the 2022 budget. That was a technical argument, but there is also a perhaps even more important policy argument. If a good pension reform is to be implemented, people must not be put on the spot. One cannot just change the conditions one year before they would take up their pension. That is the best way to achieve a pension reform that would fall very badly. However, this does not mean that pension reform has no budgetary impact. The aim of pension reform is, of course, to improve the control of the costs of ageing populations. However, the impact is only within two, three or four years. That is the way we want to tackle this debate. That is why we have agreed with Mrs Lalieux to separate the debate on pension reform entirely from that on the budget. It does not belong in a budget discussion, because it is technically impossible and because it sends the wrong signal. Pension reform does not serve to clean up the year after or two years after, it must provide a long-term solution. That is why we will be holding these talks in the coming months. I assume that it was not your intention to encourage us to undertake a reform that was not thoroughly discussed or would not give those people the time to understand what it is about.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u120	Mrs Depraetere, I would like to talk to you about what Mr De Croo said. We have tables up to 2024 in which certain things are unrecoverable. Actually, you're telling me that you have no idea where it's going. That is remarkable, because in the meantime it is 14 October, one month and fourteen days after the date mentioned in your coalition agreement. You fail to fulfil your commitments because of the contradictions within your government that we have all noticed. Moreover, the impression is given that there will be no pension reform until 2024. Who will live will see [[.]] We are waiting in suspense and are currently staying hungry on this very important issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u121	The next speaker is Mrs Fonck, who proposes to give ten minutes to the DeFI Group which will follow and to stick to 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u122	Prime Minister, your government has two and a half years left. It's both a lot and very little. Everything remains to be done - or almost everything else - and yet I had the impression yesterday that I was at the October 2020 sitting in the European Parliament, when you set a number of important objectives on major issues. We then expressed our support for the objectives set in terms of climate, health, employment or safety. Even if our expectations were high, we had, alongside the hope that the objectives would be achieved, also skepticism about your ability to translate them into reality, given the divisions already marked at the time within your government and the significant blurring of how to achieve these objectives. Today you are again representing the same objectives – what is more normal for you to say – but, as we were finally hoping for precise answers to the "how", we find that we have not advanced after a year and have almost returned to square one. What strikes in your agreement is that it understands a little bit of everything but, above all, a lot of blur, of the "downside" and of the "announcement but postponed to later". However, socio-economic emergencies are major, the climate challenge is not waiting, and we are still not completely out of the health crisis. What strikes in your agreement - I was saying - is that it understands a little bit of everything and a lot of little. There is very little in your agreement - the Prime Minister has unfortunately come out, but this point has not yet been put forward today - after the great promises and announcements of the parties of the majority on better tomorrows. I am, of course, targeting the last few months, but even more so, in recent weeks. In particular, the government's promise to avoid any increase in the energy bill, the promise to offer everyone a cheque and energy support, the promise to offer trains twice an hour for each commuter in each station and on each line, - some have overbid with the free train for all - the promise repeatedly repeated by the majority of new advances to support caregivers, to take only a few examples. And when you make those promises, the parties of your majority gave the feeling that everything was possible, that there was no longer any limit, especially on the budget. The sky is the limit! Several parties of your majority have put forward the idea that there was the budget and that it was enough to get it where it would be. Many citizens have believed in it. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, many people have believed in it. So many illusions followed by disillusionment. The gap between your promises, your announcements, the auctions, the false hopes raised and the measures you are now presenting is immense. That is obviously not how you will restore trust with the citizens. Their concern is growing. Yes, Mr. Laaouej! And it also helps fuel the overbidding of extremist parties. Laugh! Who's the free train? Who's the overbid on the carers? The sky is the limit Who's that? Mr Laaouej, I will be pleased to remind you of what your party president, Mr Magnette, has done this day again. This helps fuel the overbidding of extremist parties. In a recent poll at RTBF, a quarter of Belgians stood for the end of parliamentary democracy. If it doesn't talk to you, it talks to me. The way you behave on the balcony, in the overbidding of announcements, in your internal messes within your government, between your parties, is part of all this. The first urgency to respond is honesty and a truth speech. The second emergency is the effectiveness of policies. All of this should lead your majority – that's what I wanted to say to the Prime Minister – to a greater sense of restraint and responsibility. A year ago, I understood that the Prime Minister would be attentive to it. A year later, the observation is clear. Your majority is rather partisan of slogans, of shambles, rather than of political renewal worthy of trust. Yesterday, Prime Minister, you began your intervention by welcoming the commitment of caregivers throughout the health crisis and thanking them. You invited them here to announce an extra 1.2 billion euros for 2022. No, they're gone, Mr. Van Quickenborne! Don't look for them! But to do what? Words and applause are good, but that is not enough. Because, in the background, I haven't seen anything new for caregivers. The White Blouse Fund, yes! But that's the one two years ago. The social agreement is a year ago. But still nothing else to strengthen the attractiveness of the profession, including nurses and caregivers, over the entire professional career. Yet it is urgent and crucial for all our patients but also for the quality of care. However, your majority parties continue to say "yes" to nurses and caregivers. The reality is quite different. Their workload is increasing. There are fewer and fewer people engaging in this profession, and the government's inertia towards them only exacerbates their discouragement. Nothing healthy about the sensitive issue of INAMI numbers either. What is the status of the major projects on the strategy to combat pandemics, on the financing of hospitals or on the reform of the nomenclature? No word either, today or yesterday, about people with disabilities. Not a word! Should I remind you here that more than 15,000 people with disabilities have been waiting for their compensation for more than six months and 5,000 for more than a year. This represents a shortfall of between 900 and 1,100 euros per month. Many alerts have been sent for many months by associations of persons with disabilities. Yesterday, the Prime Minister did not say a word about this. Allow me – even if he is not here – to relay to him the disarray of people with disabilities and to insist, with this government, that things move quickly. Your agreement also includes other measures already announced. I would like to mention the major issues surrounding the climate issue, with the doubling of the capacity of the offshore wind farm, which was felt yesterday to be a new issue even though it had already been announced. I would also like to refer to the backwards. Indeed, you proudly announce a billion investments by 2024. But where did the two to three billion high and strong investments go a few months ago? We welcomed the Michel government's investment plan. Then we looked forward to the resumption of your government's investments. Secretary of State, you announced 3.5% of GDP in 2024 (17.5 billion), 4% in 2030. In parallel with other sources of funding, the federal government was therefore talking about an additional $1.5 billion per year by 2024. It will also be remembered that the President of the European Commission, who is surrounded by the government, has visited the country with great pomp. In parallel with the European Recovery and Resilience Plan, we must note a decline on your part. This is about EUR 1 billion over three years. So we're far from the goal and the announcements. That's a shame! I would have hoped, after the great declaration of the parties that demonstrated during this magnificent citizen mobilization last Sunday, that you would move to a higher speed in terms of climate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u123	Mrs Fonck, thank you and offer to have a coffee to look at the numbers in the middle of the night. Indeed, with the governments of the federated entities, we now have the means to reach the target of 3.5% investment by 2024. This is a major inflection that has not been seen since the 1980s in public investment policy in Belgium. We can rejoice in that. I'd be happy to give you the numbers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u124	Secretary of State, I dare imagine that your calculators have not changed in recent months. A few months ago, you explained to us that in order to achieve the objectives set (3.5 % in 2024 and 4 % in 2030), you needed – I will not read the articles again, but I will keep them at your disposal – in addition to the budget of the federated entities and the European budget, an additional 1.5 billion per year. I guess since then, your calculator has not changed. If this were not the case, there would be a concern. I still have a scientific and mathematical side, I'm not going to do it again, Mr. Secretary of State. But when you announce something, you obviously can't change the framework without raising serious questions. Either the figures you are announcing today are correct, or the ones you were announcing a few months ago. But, in any case, both are not compatible. In this regard, I cannot help but say that President Magnette has said that a billion investments by 2024 are not enough. I guess he was also based on the calculator a few months ago. I have no doubt that we will have the opportunity to come back to this point around a coffee or a glass of water. In short, last weekend's citizen mobilization also aimed to put an end to chatter in order to move to a higher speed for the climate. If you maintain your goals, you still don't specify how you're going to achieve them, just about federal leadership in the allocation of greenhouse gas reduction efforts, as we approach COP26 in Glasgow. In this respect, I cannot help but quote Mr Nollet a few years ago. He was talking about "climato-apathism of the government," because there was no agreement a month before COP21. You have managed to do even worse, even though three out of four climate ministers are from the same party. Not a word about the assessment expected by November of your choice of the energy mix, about your choice of gas-fired power plants, which everyone knows – this has been well demonstrated – that the impact of CO2 emissions would be negative, or about the potential consequences for price and security of supply. If CO2 emissions increase with your gas plants, the private sector, citizens and businesses will be under additional pressure to achieve these goals. Prime Minister, if an evaluation is scheduled for November, the big question is who, Minister, is going to proceed with the announced evaluation. Expertise and total independence from all sectors seem essential to me, through a scientific and non-dogmatic approach. I do not know who is going to conduct this evaluation, but it seems to me interesting that you can speak on this. With regard to the millions of tonnes of CO2 less by 2030, I agree, but who will have to take care of it, and how exactly? The only certainty at this stage is indeed the announced opening of many gas-fired power plants, which will increase CO2 emissions. Is that a climate government? I don't believe it. This is being questioned from within your government. This morning, Madam Minister, you were on the radio. I guess you follow Twitter, it's not a communication manager that follows it for you. So I assume you saw the tweet of the president of the MR, who was royally tacked at you – I was talking a few moments ago about the shambles of this government's parties. The least we can say is that serious questions are also being raised internally within your majority. Our citizens have felt in their flesh – yes, in their flesh – the devastating effects of climate change during floods. You welcomed yesterday, Prime Minister, the work of Defence and Emergency Preparedness. However, although they have obviously done a great deal, a famous questioning is needed on the savings and choices made earlier on Civil Protection, on the management and support of the federal government at the worst moments of the flood crisis, on the terrible persistent reality of very/too many victims, as my colleague Vanessa Matz rightly pointed out. Talking about energy also means talking about the prices that have blazed. We have already had some exchanges on this subject and, in this area too, the ideas have sprung up in your majority, more generous than each other with promises, but also false hopes, like this promised aid for all Belgians, regardless of their status. Is your agreement socially fair? I don't think so. Yes, it is very good to help 20 per cent of the population, social recipients and very low incomes, but in our view it would have been necessary to be able to help those who work, who belong to the middle class, who have everything but the income of the wealthy and who are in situations of full suffering with the explosion of these bills. I also heard Mr. Magnette question your government agreement on Twitch, Mr. Secretary of State, and I assume that, like me, you have learned of it. I recalled earlier what he said, but in the background, he gives us reason, because he says that above the ceiling of those who will benefit from the social rate – let us add the additional 80 euros – those will benefit from extremely reduced aid. We insist once again on reopening the discussions, as voices within the government are being heard to give us reason about the middle class. This threshold you have determined is too low. The middle class is left to abandon. I repeat: the wages of middle class people are not the wages of wealthy people, as some people wanted them to believe earlier. Far from it! The impact could also be devastating for a number of companies. Prime Minister, we also do not mention this aspect of things with regard to the self-employed and farmers who could be significantly impacted. Minister, we will not reopen the whole debate. I'll be happy to listen to you in a moment. Of course you will explain, once again, the inverted click, the control of the cost, etc. In fact, the aid that can be provided is very low: 30 to 50 euros per household per year. This is very little compared to the explosion in prices and potential projections of an increase of up to EUR 1 000 per household per year!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u125	Mrs Fonck, it is always very easy to take only one part of the Energy package. The government package consists, on the one hand, of targeted measures and, on the other, of a structural approach to energy bills. For the past ten years in this country, an energy standard has been required for households and businesses. I don't accept you saying here that we're not doing anything for business. The Minister of Finance and I are ready to introduce legislation in Parliament so that the energy standard so much demanded for ten years can be implemented from 1 January 2022. If for you this is not enough, it is still a structural reform on the bill. It will therefore not be valid only next year, but forever. This government has taken no action to increase the bill. None! In the past, there have been automatic increases passed on to the invoice. That's what's going to change. Household and business bills will no longer be increased with such automatic increases. It's a break with the past. Companies demand security for investments and households demand protection of their purchasing power. In this sense, we propose a structural measure. It is more important than acting on a case-by-case basis, as has often been the case in the past.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u126	It is not a question of discussing a situation with changes in bills up or down. We are in a major energy crisis. You know matter much better than I do and with a lot of humility, I dare ask the question of how many years we have not seen such an explosion in the cost of energy in such a short time. I'm not saying it was because of the government that the cost of energy exploded. But while it is good to work structurally, the situation is so serious that it is normal and essential for the government to intervene urgently for businesses, households and self-employed people, especially farmers. We expect the government to make choices. You have made a choice to support the most disadvantaged people in a very positive way. Faced with the explosion of the bill – for which forecasts remain poor – the consequences are terrible for the middle classes. According to the official figures of September 2021, for those above the income ceiling of €20,763 (€1,730 per month), to which is added per dependant €3,843, it must be recognised that this is only microscopic aid in relation to reality. Is it necessary, as ministers or parliamentarians, to intervene on the matter of the deterioration of the energy bill? No, I don't think so. But is that a reason to explain to us that for everything about income, no much more substantial help than what you do is not indispensable? I don't share your choices at all. I heard Mr Verherstraeten open the door to the middle classes. I recalled what Mr. Magnette made clear. So maybe there are some lines that could move within the government. Perhaps your final choice will indeed be to help the most disadvantaged families, the social beneficiaries and the very small incomes, and to leave the middle classes out of the way. We wouldn't have validated this choice, but it's your choice.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u127	As far as farmers are concerned, we did not forget them when we made the excise reform. When the bill is discussed in the Finance Committee, you will see that there is a specific tariff for farmers. As far as the middle classes are concerned, it is not correct to say that nothing is being done for them. There are other measures in the budget, including tax reductions. We therefore do not isolate certain categories. You are absolutely right when you say that we are facing a major global price increase. It is therefore necessary to act in the long term and in a structural way. We must therefore continue on our journey to renewable energy, the only technologies whose price is declining. If we prepare our future and take it into our own hands, it is in the areas of energy efficiency and renewable energy. In this way, we can use the most structural means to combat such price increases, which may or may very probably still occur, depending on the source consulted. But right now, we want to... Of course, we want to intervene at this time, as a matter of urgency, in the energy package that is currently on the budget. When we discuss the political notes and guidelines in the committees later, you will see that we will also choose to continue to invest in renewable energy, for example, at the federal level, in wind energy in the North Sea.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u128	We could also refer to structural measures, Madam Minister. There may then be new or additional measures that have not been announced, nor are they included in the budget tables. Everything about energy efficiency in fact, especially for households, and all the measures that reduce energy consumption, are also typically structural measures in the long term and we would have liked to see them in your high and strong government agreement. These are debates to which we will remain attentive and ideas that we will continue to bring. With regard to the debate on nuclear and renewable energy, it may be necessary to stop opposing energy from one another. In any case, we will need an energy mix. Everyone once again highlights this famous evaluation. Let us acknowledge that for investors, the fact that they announced a year ago that an evaluation would only be made in November 2021 does not provide much investment security and at least does not give them a clear course. But I would like to stress in this regard the crucial importance of having an independent scientific assessment, and above all, which serves as the basis for all future decisions, knowing the extreme dogmatism with which this issue can sometimes be addressed, in any case by a number of policies. We will therefore not agree on the choice you have made in terms of aid, even if we agree that this crisis is a major energy crisis in terms of the explosion of bills. So this is already a step – I have no doubt that you thought it very strongly – but I still hope, Madam Minister, that the lines will still move for the middle classes – I persist and I sign – in the coming weeks. Let me now address important socio-economic issues, since you have made the employment rate of 80% in 2030 one of your major goals. Prime Minister, like last year, I would say that it would be good if there was not only a target for 2030 but already for 2024. It is always easy to postpone ambitious goals to the end of the next legislature! I am not saying that it is not good to have an objective in the medium term, but it would be logical and normal to have one by 2024 already. I will come out of the cartoons I have heard today about the jobs in need and the return to work of long-term patients and say that we see this with a positive eye. These are issues that are very important, first of all, for jobs that are in short supply. Let us recall the latest Eurostat data showing that we are the worst in the euro area with the Czech Republic. We're in the penultimate place. [[(....): (....)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u129	I have the slides with me. Unfortunately I cannot project them here, otherwise I would show you Eurostat diagrams that – I imagine – you will not question. You are referring the essential – and that is my problem – to a cooperation agreement. My experience has taught me that it takes weeks – what am I saying? – months to conclude a cooperation agreement. However, for jobs in need, it is urgent actions that are essential to enable job seekers to return to employment, but also to respond to many independents and SMEs who desperately seek to hire trained staff. Your announcements about the staff in need have indeed been made, but the announced measures are postponed to later and even – I fear – to very late. As far as long-term patients are concerned, the number of long-term patients is actually increasing, with about 500,000 currently affected. The disease can be terribly desocializing. Therefore, giving the possibility of a return and assistance to a return, when the person is cured, even if he or she does not necessarily immediately resume his or her activities at 100%, allows to leave this desocialization related to the disease, but also to post-disease. You have also announced a series of measures that are not new. It is a question of seeking the cooperation of the general practitioner, the occupational doctor, the medical adviser, the mutual societies and the employer. Nothing new! The certificate of fitness has been in force since 2016. The standard questionnaire has been in existence since 2019, i.e. two years. In these circumstances, will the decisions you make be effective? I don't know. Are we going to put thousands of people back to work with 40 coaches? I don't think so. Is there already a real way to ensure that the return to employment can be achieved through incentives to employers with changes in employment (type of employment, pace, schedule, workload). I don't think so. Let us also acknowledge that, for a number of companies – I am thinking mainly of SMEs here – having to re-engage a part-time person and, at the same time, hiring another half-time is sometimes unmanageable. Let us dare to approach things differently and ask ourselves why we have so many people with disabilities over longer and longer periods of time. Indeed, in your approach, if a major issue is missing, it is indeed that of prevention at work and reinforcement to avoid these longer periods of incapacity for work. Let us say this: have we ever given ourselves the chance to articulate the question of these disabilities with their career ends and their adjustments? No! Yet a large number of long-term patients are more than 55 years old. Changes in pension schemes are, in large part, at the root of the increase in these patients. I therefore remain convinced that a positive rather than punitive approach is far more effective and, above all, much more effective. Prime Minister, your mutism about pensions calls into question. I heard you say, earlier, there would be no impact on 2022. But if I take the pension bonus, if I am not mistaken, Mrs Lalieux said, in her presentation, that the measure relating to this issue would be directly applicable. The lack of budget, of information, while this reform proposed by the Minister of Pensions is announced on the official website of her ministry (which suggests that it would be validated by the government and is therefore challenging!) is postponed to later with many questions after all the announcements or even some promises. Reference is also made to the tax reform which, we hope, will enhance the work and efforts to reduce the burden on labour and increase net incomes. Let us remember that Belgium remains among the countries that tax work the most. I hope that you will move quickly and effectively in this direction. The shortage of jobs and the hope that long-term patients will return to work will not be enough to reach the 80% employment rate by 2030. What will you propose to us, and what Minister Dermagne proposes for workers at the end of their careers, for young people, for people of foreign origin who are the categories with the lowest employment rate. These issues are crucial and they are little, if any, addressed in your agreement. However, they are of major importance for achieving the employment rate of 80% in 2030. In the same vein, we had an exchange with the MR group leader on the reformed measure. It is therefore not just an end to the abuses on zero contributions for the first job for all wages, measure of the Michel government. Promised to be a spitting juror! We were promised that it would be final. But you are reforming it, you are capping it, with a saving of EUR 47 million, which will automatically impact the companies, the self-employed and the workers concerned. The questions remain open and have not been answered. It's all but clear. So it's challenging. In the area of employment, various measures are positive. We will support them and have been carrying them for some time now, particularly with regard to worker flexibility and work-family reconciliation. There is a timid additional deductibility on the costs of custody, the individual training account, - these are texts that we have tabled -. The opening (with tags of course) of 38 hours per week, but spread differently. Telework, the right to disconnect, maternity leave for independents... We will be attentive to the realization of all these themes. The question of the credibility of your budget arises. You are much clearer on new spending than on how to finance it. The blurry probably hides random, blind or linear savings. I quote a few: the tax on airline tickets. I was just showing you that savings of 30 to 40 million euros per year are only possible with a tax of 50 euros per plane ticket, whereas this is only a question of 5 to 6 euros per ticket, which is mathematically impractical. The fight against tax and social fraud (€400 million) remains at this stage of uncertainty. As far as health is concerned, technical corrections of up to EUR 120 million are concerned. I am always wary of such corrections and even more so of health. What's he hiding behind? I will mention this cheese grater: 300 million in 2022; 450 million in 2023; 600 million in 2024 on the public service. I hope that, in this matter, the correction will not be made blindly with a cheese grater formula in a systematic way. We would then clearly miss out on an issue of efficiency. Another example is the social contributions for professional footballers, the high salaries of professional footballers. It also remains very vague. You are counting on a return effect of several million euros, but how will you proceed? Will you add a lump sum? This would mean that the one who earns the most will always pay the least in percentage terms. Or will it be a serious reform? The main issue is the issue of significantly improving tax fairness. A theme that we find in the watermark of your speech but which is never explained as such is the need to cooperate with federated entities, especially in the field of employment. This reflects the difficulty of managing a number of jurisdictions shared between the federal government and the federated entities. I referred a moment ago to the cooperation agreements to which you refer, and the time it will take to achieve them. This is all too often used as an excuse for immobilism. He was seen, reviewed and reviewed in health matters, and even more during the health crisis. You had announced your willingness to reform the matter. It must be noted, however, that you have only one agenda: that of regionalizing health care by ignoring a real debate. You are, of course, organizing a citizen consultation through a platform, as announced in your government agreement. However, a few lines later in the same agreement, you have already locked the decision to regionalize health care. For me, it remains incomprehensible, both on form – why consult if everything is folded? – and on the bottom. The health crisis has shown us, once again, that not only the spread of skills, but also the exercise of health competence in a smaller territory, in a smaller number of people, makes our policies more ineffective and, moreover, less supportive. Neither citizens nor public health gain. I would hope for a 180-degree shift in this area, even if the progress of the joint committee – Senate and House – on the evaluation of institutional reforms leaves serious doubts. I would like here to echo my colleagues at Ecolo-Groen in favour of citizen participation here in the House, by involving citizens in the work of our committee, but I am calling, ladies and gentlemen, for it not to be just a facade, not as we see all too often in the hearings: the majority says to the people who are heard "Yes yes, you are right", but just the opposite when it comes to voting. In other words, involving citizens in our committees is, in relation to the breach of trust, a major issue. The same applies to true speech and effective policies, but the citizen will have to be given a real lever of codecision. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in mid-legislature – yes, already – we were waiting for the government for some kind of time of truth, and we hoped that the government would clearly be able to present us with concrete measures, strong and ready to be implemented, efficiency and results. On a number of positions in your agreement, this is not the case. Your crew is so heterogeneous that it is undermined by its differences. Each pulls with a lot of energy in a different direction. The departures from the day of the presidents of the majority parties, in any case francophones, bear witness to this. It is therefore the least common denominator that emerges from your budgetary discussions. Yet the challenges are major: valuing the work, valuing efforts, working to support the most disadvantaged, advancing on health, climate and socio-economic issues. We're wasting time, too much time, and we don't have the luxury of losing time. The CDH will not support your agreement. We will not trust you, Prime Minister, nor the Vivaldi government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u130	Madam President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ministers and the brave few who are still here, I would like first of all to thank the cdH group and Mrs Fonck for her spontaneous offer – I would like to make it clear – and generous with a little of her time. Thank you for this solidarity. No, we didn't agree, we didn't agree, we didn't agree, we didn't agree, we didn't agree, we didn't agree to merge, we didn't agree to make a cartel in exchange. Thank you for this democratic solidarity because between a speaking time of ten minutes for unrecognized groups and forty minutes for recognized groups, there is still a huge difference. Before I get to the bottom, I'll say a little bit about the shape. Prime Minister, your government statement has raised at least a tenuous and real hope that it will put an end to the bad pre-electoral spectacle given by several of your majority partners in the press and on social networks since the beginning of September. Since the beginning of September, we have been entitled to a true festival of announcements, declarations, auctions, arms and, finally, last-minute public reconciliations that are always a pleasure to see. All this in order to reach an agreement the first of which is given by party presidents or deputy prime ministers in mornings on the radio and, then, by yourself at a press conference before Parliament. This is problematic and deplorable for several reasons. First of all, it is a lack of respect for the citizens, the economic and social operators who are wondering, day after day, what awaits them for the coming year. Secondly, it is a lack of respect for democracy. Members are informed by the press before they can analyse, react and ask questions, even though that is their role. It will never be recalled enough; the constitutional task of controlling the federal government's action rests with Parliament first. And the argument you made yesterday to Mr. De Roover, who says it's not very serious because Charles Michel would have done the same thing in 2015 or 2016. I regret to have to tell you that this is not an argument. For me, it would even be an aggravating circumstance. Finally, it is a lack of respect, Prime Minister, for your partners vis-à-vis yourself. You are today an abused man, Prime Minister, by your partners. I think it's time someone told you. And I'm telling you with a very sincere empathy. You'd be right to complain. We'll listen to you. That's why we're here. All this for what at the bottom? For a purely vivaldian agreement, that is, with a little bit of everything: beautiful intentions, plans and plans, some good projects and beautiful ideas – I think, Mr Dermine, in particular, public investment – but without any real breath. This leaves a general impression of perpetual negotiations. This probably saves everyone's face and has a small trophy, but at the expense of real cohesion. I will only stop on a few points. I will first address employment with the dominant ideology of your reform, which is almost in line with the previous legislature under the slogan "jobs, jobs, jobs" but, I concede to you, with, this time, more vocabulary and more development. I would point out from the outset that we can support certain advances, such as the introduction of a genuine individual right to training. It is a real progress and it would be unfair not to recognize it. We had already denounced this missed opportunity in the previous reform. The formation is a spearhead of my party at the regional level in Brussels. This is a long-standing fight defended by the former Brussels Minister in charge of Employment and the Dider Gosuin Training under the previous legislature. In particular, Mr. Gosuin has successfully implemented a project to reduce working time without loss of pay for low-skilled workers. In this connection, we would like to know more about the idea of a four-day week that has made a lot of ink in recent days, which you refer to the social partners. But the question arises about the need for a vision adapted to our society. I'm thinking about daycare schedules, daycares, shops, public transport. This should be avoided at the expense of women, single-parent families and economic actors who could hardly adapt. The question arises about the mandate you have given to the social partners. What will be the added value of the approach in relation to the opportunities that already exist? To return to your labour market reform, we find that it is essentially focused on placing or returning to work. It seems a little short to us to fight poverty. As a reminder, in 2020, 14.1 per cent of our population lived in a household with total income below the poverty line. But the fight against poverty, which requires a real plan to coordinate several skills, is curiously quite absent from your government statement. You focus on the most "easy", you target those who are already working and who have to keep their activity, those who have already worked, those who are able to do so, those who are able to take training to return to the labour market. In other words, the middle classes. Except that you forget all the others, the furthest away from the labour market. On the tax side, a new tax shift is proposed for low and medium wages in order to increase purchasing power. It is very well, though, that we are far from what we have all been waiting for for for some time now, namely the announcement of a real major tax reform. We expect it and will therefore be content with this umpteenth tax shift. Our group must sincerely welcome the project to subject professional athletes to social security contributions. The removal of niches – although apparently not to the liking of some members of the majority – is a crucial issue for increasing ethics and tax justice. With regard to energy prices, we welcome the extension of the social tariff in the first quarter of 2020, even if it could have been extended throughout the year 2022, and the introduction of a €80 cheque for the weaker households. But, frankly, this remains very insufficient to respond to the price rise that will continue for many months to come. Why do you persist in refusing a temporary and unconditional reduction of VAT to 6% as we suggested? Why not introduce greater account of energy prices in the consumer price index, which could have helped many more people? In doing so, your government completely ignores the middle class, which is not in the conditions to benefit from an extension of the social tariff. I understand the story of the ratchet. I know that other measures are planned but all this will help some households for a few dozen euros while we are talking about bill increases between 400 and 800 euros. In the area of health care, our group welcomes the decision to invest in mental health. This is an area that has been neglected for too long. We can only appreciate the overall reinvestment of the sector as well: 1.2 billion more, that is not nothing. We hope that the breakdown of this sum and these measures will take into account the various claims. As far as long-term patients are concerned, you must do justice to the fact that you are pushing a taboo. It was true that it was not possible to stay with such a long-term patient without acting. However, we regret that this reform is not accompanied by a more general employment policy. It will be necessary to ensure that accountability affects not only those concerned but also employers. We also question the balance between support for recovery and financial sanctions. In our view, financially punishing people who already have the rope on their necks will not facilitate their reintegration into the world of work and could even prove counterproductive. We are legitimately concerned about what the government is proposing to support people who are exhausted and in burnout because of their difficult working conditions. Finally, I would like to focus on the few files that are missing from your statement. I had the opportunity to tell the press yesterday - I think - what is particularly interesting in your statements of government in general is not so much what you say as what you do not say. As far as pensions are concerned, I understand your argument and have understood your discussion with Mr. De Roover earlier, but still, after launching the debate with Mrs Lalieux in such a resounding way from the beginning of September, it is very curious that this issue of pensions, which may be that of the legislature, is not at the heart of your speech or even of your budget tables. What Mr. M. said at the same time. From Roover and Mrs Fonck is very fair, your budget tables go until 2024, some data like the pension bonus will take place as early as 2022. However, it is unlikely that nothing will happen in the area of pensions, including the budget, from 2022 onwards. We have the right to ask at least this question: will the minister in charge of pensions present us at least with a general policy note for 2022 or will nothing take place before she presents us with a reform, which has been approved this time by the government? As far as tax fraud is concerned, Prime Minister, we are facing a real problem. Objectively, it doesn't work. This afternoon's discussion was, again, quite illuminating in this regard. Your declaration of government has from the beginning given us an amount of 400 million euros, of which we do not yet understand the justification. Many of us are still, indeed, questioning the justification for the EUR 200 million of 2021. When the N-VA - I think it was Mr Franken - asks - and it is your Finance Minister who replied - where we are, when we are today on 14 October 2021, we should necessarily already have an idea of what has already happened to the fight against tax fraud in 2021. However, the Minister of Finance replied very elliptically, telling us about the plan that had been made to the government in June, of 29 measures, of project sheets, but did not say anything about an amount that had already been received. So we know nothing about what happened to the fight against tax fraud in 2021. Understand that, in the opposition or elsewhere, we are a few to have doubts about how the money will return twice as much in 2022, especially since in the meantime the alarm signals continue to sound and grow. I am thinking of this statement by the Attorney General in September, which explains that the fight against financial crime and tax fraud is becoming difficult to carry out with an increasingly small number of specialized investigators. I'm thinking about the investigating judge Claise who's going in the same direction. I'm thinking of the Pandora Papers. It's a date that Vivaldi can't miss and I feel like she's doing it. I insist, not just on tax evasion, but on the fight against financial crime, which is an important scourge. If this struggle were properly waged, it could bring us billions. I have the impression, however, that we are somewhat watching the trains pass. I will end with a subject which is not socio-economic, but which you briefly addressed in your statement the day before yesterday: asylum and migration. It's a subject that I care about. Indeed, I was director of Myria in another life. I have noted, Mr Minister, your European call for safer borders. I'm putting myself in your shoes. On the one hand, you are facing former Swede parties and, on the other, you are facing environmentalists and socialists. It is difficult to talk about internal migration and it is therefore much easier to send us to the European level and to call for a European asylum and migration policy that we would all be happy to have! But still! Internally, in Belgium, burning issues will increasingly require your and your government's attention on migration. In fact, your government almost fell this summer on a hunger strike for undocumented people that could resume in the fall. You dodeline, but that's not what the PS and Ecolo meant at the time! Your Government has rejected our proposal to include clear and objective regularization criteria in the law. At the beginning of the summer, when the Taliban had already resumed their conquest, Belgium still sent Afghans back to Afghanistan. Most recently, your government detained for two weeks and attempted to expel twice a Congolese student in order of visa and university registration. Do you really believe that your only migration concern in the coming year will only concern European borders? I don't think so, and I wish you good luck! For our part, we will ensure that this matter is followed in a fair and humane manner. In conclusion, Prime Minister - realizing that the minutes of the CDH were very useful - the name of the Vivaldi cannot yet be joined to any major reform or to any major project. That's the main problem. Your coalition, as we know, is the result of necessity, laborious and difficult work. It was necessary both to fight the covid (labour is largely done) and to bypass the extremes; except that today, the hypertrophy of the parties that make up your government is no longer a force, but its main handicap. A year ago, in the European Parliament, at about the same time, I made a speech at the setting up of your government, which unfortunately is still topical. There are always the forgotten of Vivaldi: women, those who want to benefit from a late abortion and who are still obliged to travel to the Netherlands because of the blockage of your majority; the middle class, migrants... Despite your budget in pain, it's hard to understand where you're going. There is still no great reform or ambition, no real course. There is the impression that the reforms proposed by some will always be politically barred, at some point, by others and vice versa. I have the impression of a permanent ego batallé fed, it is true, by the party presidents of your coalition to which you leave far too much space. There is the impression that your government is not always able to meet the immense challenges of our time: the financing of pensions of which you have not spoken, that of our social security which is about to become the major problem of our generation; the reform of our taxation which has become unjust and incomprehensible. That's what we'd so much like to hear the day before yesterday. This government is one of announcements, plans and good intentions. You spend more time closing the breaches of the majority ship than governing. After a year, we are forced to make this observation: you are managers while we urgently need visionaries. I regret this and, for this reason, my group will not vote for confidence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u131	Madam President, I listened with great attention to my colleague, François De Smet, who, with a certain malice and sometimes even in a somewhat vicious tone, despite his polite appearance and a bit of a psychologist, gave himself with great joy, at the beginning of his speech, by referring to the President of the European Council, Mr Charles Michel. When I heard him, I remembered that he grew up at the Jean Gol Centre. I thought, in the end, Frankenstein did not only exist in cinema, but also in politics. It made me smile a lot.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u132	Dear colleague, all revelations about my person. While all I have done is to be part of a scientific committee of the Jean Gol Centre, which has only met once. I have no problem recognizing that I have had in the past, as is the case with all the members of Défi, a common journey with the MR. The principle of this scientific committee was to be apolitical, beyond partisan divisions. There was even a certain Paul Magnette on this committee. That's to tell you how broad we were at the time!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u133	Colleagues, I have exactly five minutes to make a summary of what we have heard today. What did we learn today, after 16 hours? We have learned that green policy in this country is a real poverty generator, Mrs van der Straeten. In addition to the 35 billion euros of green electricity certificates, you have put so many taxes and charges in the energy bill that the tax bill is now exploding in the face of the good citizen. We have learned that you don't give a shit about CO2 emissions and that the climate is just an alibi. How else is it possible to shut down C02-free nuclear reactors and replace them with gas plants that emit 41 times more CO2 than nuclear power? If the two reactors close, 45 billion kilograms of CO2 will be emitted. We have also learned that the loss to the Treasury caused by the closure of nuclear power stations does not bother you either. Since 2008, they have raised EUR 3.5 billion in taxes and your gas plants will cost us EUR 3.9 billion in new subsidies. With the Greens, says the MR, it's more expensive. We have also learned that this government, so to speak, is doing everything it can to get as many people into work as possible, but in reality increases the unemployment trap. We have also learned that the working man pays the bill again. As little as 2.5 percent of the working population is eligible for your social rate. That's one employee in 40. We have learned that our cashier Deborah always makes too much money at 2,179 euros a month to benefit from subsidies, but also always enough to pay taxes. With 2,179 euros gross, Prime Minister, she even has to pay 45% taxes. Those are the lowest wages in the country. We've learned that Deborah must be satisfied with the crumbs falling off the table. She gets a maximum of 25 euros per year extra tax deduction for childcare. That is a bummer, if you know that if you work up to EUR 29 per day, you have to pay for child care, whereas if you are unemployed, it is only EUR 5.5. We learned that Deborah gets 2.5 euros a month off her exploded energy bill. Hopefully it doesn't smoke, because excise duties on tobacco are also rising sharply. We have also learned that it is now receiving a super gift of EUR 4 per month by abolishing the special social security contribution, a tax introduced by Jean-Luc Dehaene in 1994 and not even a tax. Now it is strangely called a tax reduction by CD&V. This crisis contribution should normally have been abolished by the year 2000 and we are now 21 years ahead. Deborah has to cough up 684 euros a year for her exploded invoice. We have also learned that she gets 3 extra days to think about whether it is worth working. I am not alone in this determination, Prime Minister. This afternoon, Mr Paul Magnette, the great guru of the PS, confirmed that the middle class pays the price. We are rapidly creating a new class in this country, especially the working poor. People living together can often manage with a double income, but people living alone often have to fight every day to keep their heads above water. We have also learned that the only thing Vivaldi has decided on is an increase in taxes, including the increase in taxes on tobacco, a flight tax, a security tax, a reduction in reimbursement for professional diesel, a CRM tax, the freeze of indexation of tax rebates and tax exemptions, higher taxes on private use of commercial cars, the reduction of deduction arrangements for commercial cars and digitals. I can go on like this for a while, but I'm going to stop, Prime Minister. This morning I read a fine sentence by top journalist Jan Segers. He said, "This government has moved a few commas, but she thinks she wrote a chapter. I share that view.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u134	With all due respect and appreciation for the speeches made by all the group leaders and for the right to speak by all the speakers, I have asked myself a number of times what was on the agenda here today. That is a final remark I wanted to make. The agenda was the discussion of the government statement. However, it seemed as if the leaders of the political groups had to be questioned. I have heard a few interventions, as well as thematic discussions and one-two. My question to the President is whether it would be useful to think about the future of this sitting. Is there still a need for a thematic discussion? After all, there have been many and Mr Van Peteghem cannot be present. It's hard for me to imagine that we're still having a functional meeting like this. However, functional meetings were on the agenda of the committee chairmen. With all the naivety of someone who is not a professional politician, I believe that we need to think about how we can have banged but focused debates in the future. The essence of the agenda must be respected, in particular government policies and long-term challenges.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u135	Ladies and gentlemen, a little calm! I know it's two o'clock in the morning and it's getting complicated, but that's what you want! This is proof of the number of speeches and interruptions during speeches and of the non-compliance with the agreement that we would confine ourselves to the general debate. I assume that the thematic debates will now be faster since you've already been through them so many times and I guess everything will be fine. In any case, I suggest that you start the thematic debates right now, Mr Leysen. [[Hilarity]] That's right! I want to go too fast! I forgot the Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u136	Let me begin by thanking the opposition for giving me the opportunity to reply so that I do not have to go through all the thematic debates. I am counting on my colleagues to bring these debates to a successful conclusion. We have been discussing this budgetary agreement for 16 hours now! The common thread throughout all interventions is that the agreement goes too far for some and not far enough for others. However, there are few questions about the general direction, namely giving more people opportunities by reforming our labour market, leaving no one behind and investing in people who have been away from our labour market for too long, pension reforms... Excuse me.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u137	It's late for everyone. So I was talking about the energy bill. No one really questions that direction. It is therefore possible to conclude that this government is pursuing a central policy. I'll come back later on to some of the sacred houses we're tearing down. We are moving in a direction that is not questioned. For a government that wants to pursue a centre policy, I find that rather reassuring. Of course, when we conduct a discussion on the general policy of a government, we must always do so in the context in which we find ourselves. Today we are emerging from a health crisis, an unprecedented pandemic for our country. We are also emerging from an economic crisis, the consequences of which we are still suffering. Sometimes, when I hear some interventions, I feel that some people do not take this into account. They make rather general remarks as if the health crisis, the pandemic and the economic crisis had not existed, while the situation remains very sensitive. However, we have learned things. We have learned that we need to take care of vulnerable people more than ever before and that we need to make sure that we do not leave anyone behind. However, we must also make our society and our economy take the turn towards sustainability more than ever, not only because it is the right thing to do, but also because it is the direction the world is heading. If we want to play a leading role in the world, for example in economic or technological terms, then we must also take a lead in these areas. From that perspective, it may be a little surprising that relatively little has been said about the climate. The climate debate has been almost bound up with a debate pro or counter to nuclear energy. That is the reduction that has been made. It is a bit surprising that in that domain the dogmatics jumped from one side to the other. It's almost become a dogmatic debate. Anyone who follows the debate closely knows that we have to close five out of seven reactors. That's not really being questioned. So it is only a question of whether we will keep two reactors open longer or not. I want to reassure you. Within the government that is absolutely not a dogmatic debate. We have been very clear about this and the Minister responsible is also very clear about it: it is a very rational decision, based on an auction, which has taken place in the meantime. We'll get the results soon. We have clearly agreed that the evaluation will be carried out on the basis of two criteria: can we guarantee security of supply and can we ensure that the impact on prices is as small as possible? We sometimes have the impression, even though this debate is, in my view, very well framed, that we are trying to use only this debate instead of conducting a much broader debate on the climate issue. The climate issue, which is once again surprising, has been the subject of very little discussion. It is the absolute priority that we as a society must have, and society I mean worldwide. This government is tackling this with an investment path that is actually relatively unseen in our country. We are already offering enough transparency to say that we will invest EUR 1 billion in it over the next three years. We are already making clear where these investments are going. For example, a quarter of these investments go to Rail, which is crucial to ensure that rail transport can take a more competitive place compared to the current situation in a country that wants to remain a manufacturing country. We are also investing in hydrogen because we know that our country has enormous potential to become a node in hydrogen networks, which will be an important vector for energy in the future. We also invest in particularly innovative projects, such as solar panels at sea, and in digitisation and cybersecurity. These investments are important to move our country forward, but they also send out the signal that we want to be an economy where we are at the top of the innovation. This is very closely linked to sustainability. I know that some people are wondering whether we can make a difference with all this C02 reduction efforts. After all, we are only a small country and the impact on CO2 emissions in the world will not have a major impact if Belgium is doing very well. That is right, the impact of what we are doing in Belgium is limited. The technology and models we develop and export here to the rest of the world, however, brings impact and economic benefits. After all, it is Belgian technology that reduces CO2 worldwide and then we export our technology to the rest of the world and it is Belgian jobs that we create with it. It's not a coincidence, we already do. We do this, for example, in the offshore wind industry, where we have been able to build a leading position in recent years, and we see that with other investments. I was talking in the State of the Union about an investment of 1.1 billion in green steel in our country. This is the result of a very good cooperation between the Flemish and the federal government. We dealt with this from the beginning together with Minister Van der Straeten and, together with the Flemish Prime Minister, made sure that we could bring that investment into our country. By believing in technology, we can unite economy and sustainability. We will not solve this great challenge by having less economy and less progress. It's by doing more, investing more, innovating more and creating more jobs. More, but better. We must not forget that. It's not just business as usual again. It needs to be better, it needs to be with sustainable technologies, it needs to be inclusive so that sustainability can be there for everyone. This requires profound work, which we make clear in our programme for the coming years. I've been talking about energy. Energy policy is not evident today, at a time when prices are very high. A great deal has been said about energy prices. I cannot get the impression that we are being criticised because our first priority is to protect the most vulnerable. Honestly, I find it surprising, at a time like this, knowing that the energy price challenge is enormous, that we are questioning our choice to focus on the most vulnerable audience. In Belgium, this affects a total of 2 million people. It is therefore a fairly broad audience. When limited resources are available, I consider it obvious to focus on the most vulnerable. At the same time, we do other things. Reform of the energy bill, for example. This is the first time in ten years that this reform has taken place. If we do this work now, it is not because energy prices are high, but because this work, begun seven or eight months ago, is now producing results. The energy standard is demanded by all, both by citizens and households and by the economic world. What we do from deep work in the energy market is also done in other areas. We have had a very lively debate here about disability. We could lose ourselves again in a discussion about how it works and lose ourselves in a certain form of anecdotics. I would rather talk about the general philosophy of what we are trying to do in that dossier. For me, it's mostly about trust. Eventually, it reduces itself to a question of trust. Control is good, but trust is better. This spell is sometimes used in a different direction by someone I have no affinity with. Our policy is often far too little based on trust. It was also felt during the debates. When it comes, for example, to establishing the week of four days, in common agreement between the worker and the employer, one sees the difference. Some question whether such a measure is possible, on the pretext that trust cannot prevail on both sides. I'm surprised. Work relations are completely different today. Labour relations are much more balanced today. The possibility should be given to employer and employee to find the right way to ensure that someone who may have a more difficult family situation can work a week harder and a week less hard or to opt for a four-day work week. A dynamic must also be created. People need to be motivated to tackle bottleneck professions. We must at last ensure that this so necessary inter-regional mobility in the field of labour can be achieved. There are certain regions in the country where unemployment is particularly low and people are being called for. A few kilometres of them, unemployment is sometimes very high. It is the Minister of Work's absolute priority to make a difference at last by working closely with each other, by making it clear that an appropriate employment relationship does not stop at a language border. A language limit is absolutely not a working limit. Care must also be taken to ensure that people who take on these bottleneck professions can retain part of their unemployment benefit. Some people have asked questions about that. That seems to me to be the logic of this kind of policy. I have just talked at length about employment, but we have also dared to do things that have long been expected in other areas. This is the case with regard to the status of athletes who earn a lot of money. The goal is not to target sports where much less money flows and make things more difficult. However, it is clear that, in the interests of fairness, a change was necessary for the athletes concerned. I have already mentioned the reform of the energy bill. Steps are being taken towards more sustainable taxation. Much has been said about this in the past, but we are taking steps. There's been a lot of talk about a plane tax. The purpose of the aircraft tax is to give a push in a certain direction. It is logical to give a push in that direction for flights for which the train is today a worthy alternative. The same applies to professional diesel. There has been much talk about this measure, but less about the compensatory measure we are taking: an investment deduction for this sector to ensure that we can invest in low-emission trucks earlier. This measure has been brought forward for a year in order to bring it together with the increase in the rate for professional diesel. In 2023, a thorough reform of the investment deduction for SMEs is planned with a view to making investments in sustainability, for example in lower-emission production methods, much more attractive. It also stimulates entrepreneurship in the broad sense, as well as its financing. I am thinking of the tax shelter for start-ups and scale-ups, a measure that was very successful and extended during the covid period. It is further extended so that more resources can be given to companies. I come now to the budget line, where we are looking for the middle course. At the moment, making a budget is really a balancing exercise, because on the one hand we have to be careful not to lose the economic recovery, which is a lot more dynamic than we expected months ago. We have seen in previous months that the confidence of the economic world has been at the highest level since just before 2008. For more than ten years, we have had such a high level of economic confidence. The same applies to consumer confidence, which is very high. The last thing that would be done now would be to take negative measures against that confidence. We all know that the investment climate, the economic climate, also has a psychological aspect. Maintaining that confidence, showing stability, showing clear direction and predictability is very important. I am convinced that this is reflected in the budget we are discussing now. Moreover, this must also be balanced with a certain budgetary year. What we ultimately seek is a balance between economic and budgetary recovery. We accept our responsibility for the budgetary recovery. We made it clear to Europe a few months ago that we would make an effort of 0.4%, and we are sticking to it. In fact, we are doing what we said. That is what we can be expected to do. We are doing EUR 500 million more because, of course, we also want to do policy, and we are financing this policy with measures which, in my view, are particularly balanced. We have made it very clear that we accept our responsibilities. We do not accept our responsibility because Europe demands it, it is not about that, but we accept our responsibility because we trust and because the people trust us. She is confident that we are now taking the right measures, that we are setting long-term guidelines and taking action in the short term. That is what we are expected to do. Ladies and gentlemen, what is ahead is therefore a budget that saves money, a budget that reformates, a budget that invests. It's the beginning of the trajectory. You have been given a table that has been expanding the lines for three years. It was important for us to be able to offer a sufficient perspective immediately. I am convinced that it is a budget and a policy that strengthens our country. He's making sure he doesn't leave anyone behind. This is a crucial element of this agreement. It is a crucial element that binds the seven parties of this government. We will leave no one behind and we are a country with ambition, a country that gives opportunities to everyone. Our country offers so many possibilities. There are too many people in our country who do not get the chance to realise their full potential. That has always been my motivation to do politics for me, and that is what the government wants to do. I want to finish with a spell by Mark Twain. He said, "The secret of getting ahead is getting started." That is what we are doing, with directions that we go along which have sometimes proved to be too controversial in the past, but which this government does. That's what our country needs. It needs to move. The government started at a time when our country was completely blocked, but fortunately we got it moving at a difficult time. We have been affected by the covid crisis, because so many Belgians have given the best of themselves. Now it is up to us to ensure that in the next three years we create an environment in which it is possible for everyone to give the best of themselves. That is the project ahead and that is the project I am very pleased to have heard that many parties support it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u138	Mr Prime Minister, we could respond to this very extensively again, but then we would open another long debate, which would be at the expense of the thematic discussions. I've just been accused of sexism. You should be careful with Mark Twain, because he is accused of dubious racist elements in his oeuvre. One can neither quote anyone nor anything else, or one comes close to the wok movement. So you'll have to pay attention to that. I speak from experience, but you will not get that reproach from us in this one. We were all raised in one way or another with Huckleberry Finn by Mark Twain. I will not respond to your speech, Prime Minister, because we have already expressed our views on this in detail and because we are right to have a number of interesting thematic considerations in the near future. I would like to thank my colleagues for having debated it today at 2.30 p.m. at 16.5 p.m. I have to pay attention, because every mistake can haunt me for the rest of my career, and I absolutely don't want to take that risk. We clearly denounced the events as we did yesterday, and I shall stick to them, but today we have had a good debate. I believe that we have had a debate in which various points of view have been exchanged. Moreover, I very much appreciate that these views have also been responded to. Madam President, I think this has been a lively debate. The participation of ministers in the debate was also an absolute enrichment. As a result, it has taken a long time, but it is also about the State of the Union, not usually Thursday, especially because we started on a Wednesday. In the meantime, our perseverance has led us to arrive again on Thursday. In about 11 and a half hours, we can judge whether your government can continue to work. The presence of a large group of Members of Parliament has certainly contributed to the debate. Frankly, we have had many months of parliamentary sadness. I hope, and it is my conviction, that we have said goodbye to that today. I would like to thank both friend and enemy for that, adding up a lot of people, and by "enemy" I mean, of course, people who think differently, because I do not want to regard anyone as an enemy in this hemisphere. Madam President, please allow me to say the following. During the long debates, something has happened that concerns us too. The Brussels Parliament has decided to meet again in full attendance. If you had followed us, we could have had that scoop here. Unfortunately, we were put in the minority. However, I can count on the fact that we have crossed the Rubicon here. It is also symbolically important, because we can now say goodbye to the serious covid threat and covid tax we have known, which rightly gave rise to restrictive measures, including in this House. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that we will be able to continue the good debate we have had today in the next few weeks in the full occupation of this hemisphere. I would like to thank you all for your parliamentary reflex in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u139	The continuation of the next episodes, Prime Minister! In relation to all the debates we have had today, in relation to the exchanges, in relation to the vagueness, the questions, the budget lines, in relation to everything that is hidden or not, I think that we will have an opportunity to come back to this in the coming weeks. That's why I say "following the next episodes."
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u140	This ends the turn of the replicas. We can therefore start the long-awaited thematic debate since 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u141	We will begin with the themes related to Minister Dermagne's competencies. Three speakers were inscribed: Mr. Anseew, Mr. Verreyt and Mr. Colebunders.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u142	Madam President, Minister, today more than 2 million compatriots between 20 and 64 years of age are not working. This is a huge potential that is not being exploited in our labour market today. At the same time, the last few months have been absolute record months with regard to open vacancies: today there are 172.000 open vacancies in this country. The government states that it is its ambition to bring 13,500 more people to work next year with so-called new policies. If we are aware that next year the Planning Bureau is planning to add 15,000 unemployed to the policy without change, the balance for next year will be negative, despite the supposedly high ambition of this government.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u143	Madam President, there is a great deal of noise, which I do not think is pleasant for the speaker. Maybe it's easier to go outside, because we just can't hear him.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u144	Thank you. So if we understand it correctly and calculate it correctly, it is the ambition of this government to have more unemployed people next year than this year. An ambition that can count. And as we have already mentioned today, these 13,500 are highly questionable: in the budget table is 13,500, in the notifications that Mrs De Block had not yet seen, there is 10,000. What is it now? But actually, it doesn't really matter. 'Cause what happened? Two nights ago, you drew up a budget table with 10,000 extra people working. That's what you wrote in your notifications. When you found at dawn that the bill was not correct, you added the wet finger 3,500. Only you are, and I understand that, in those early hours, the tiredness plays part in forgetting to change the corresponding text. This means that the figures and the amounts presented here are of little importance. If we are to get so many more people to work on top of the policies that have already been pursued, our labour market needs to be thoroughly reformed, Minister. But there's your reform agenda, actually, a big empty box. Let's take a look at the easing of night work in e-commerce. It should ensure that e-commerce does not at last, after a long time, avoid our country as the plague and that jobs can also be created in that sector in our own country. And what's decided there now? It has been decided that no decision will be taken now. The Prime Minister is apparently going to ask the trade unions, on his bare knees, if a more flexible regulation of night work can be tried out, as an experiment. It's the fine print that counts, in those notifications. At the most, it will be a pilot project which will be nicely requested from the social partners and, in particular, from the trade unions, who are not already a fan of it. Apparently, that's the way of working within a union government like this. There is therefore no question of any relaxation after your budgetary conclave. The flexible working week at which the 38 hours may be performed in four instead of five days is another measure which should make working for many people a lot more attractive by making their lives easier. What has been decided on that? That there will be no decision. This dossier is also being forwarded to the social partners. As has been said, this is the case in a trade union government: the trade unions are in charge and always have the first and last word, as we have seen over the last few months. That's the common thread through this chord. Anything that's relevant to activation will be put on the long track. Anything that aims to pay more benefits will be implemented immediately. From now on, unemployed people who enter the labour market will be able to retain a quarter of the unemployment benefit on top of their pay. On top of the increase in unemployment benefit by 4.5 %. How will this be explained to colleagues in the workplace, who do not get this generous bonus for exactly the same work. Today the pig farmers are having a very difficult time. Exports have been severely disrupted by, among other things, African swine fever and the Chinese that continue to be difficult. With this government, however, the vegetable farmers have nothing to fear. They are held many roots, without stick behind the door. There's a lot of money being distributed, when there's been no money for a long time. Moreover, the money is too often spent inefficiently. Whoever thinks that subsidised jobs, which are included as activation measures in the government agreement, offer the solution, which strays. Strengthening the degressivity of unemployment benefits would make a difference. People would be encouraged to work, because the difference between working and not working is made so much greater. However, this government is making this difference smaller and smaller. While Di Rupo took this measure as Prime Minister at the time, it seems that a government with a liberal prime minister is afraid to do so now. The phasing-out of the SWT, the bridge pension, is another measure not to push older workers out of the labour market early. For example, more people would work and a broader funding base for social security would be provided. A concern that everyone seems to share here, until there is the collection of higher taxes. The Di Rupo government also dared to do so at the time, unlike a government with a self-declared liberal prime minister. I call for that SWT to be further reduced and stopped pushing people out of the labour market early. The limitation of unemployment over time is another measure that could make a difference. With our unlimited unemployment benefits, we are gradually becoming unique in this part of the world. There is little problem in promoting the transition from unemployment to employment than unlimited unemployment benefits. Nevertheless, the De Croo government remains committed to this. The flexibility of the labour market is another thing. Generate more labour mobility, while many workers today are trapped in a golden cage of a job in which they have built many rights. They can't even temporarily try something else while they're looking forward to their job. In our country it is impossible to try anything else because even a temporary opening of that golden cage is impossible. We have put forward proposals on this in Parliament. Such flexibility could significantly reduce the threshold to work for employers and employees and the threshold for new recruitments. Unfortunately, your agreement does not include such measures or a fundamental reform of the labour market. You do not even succeed in making choices in terms of the details. The Flemish labour market suffers from a huge shortage, which means that many vacancies are not filled. An important factor in this is the mismatch between the competences of jobseekers and the needs of the labour market. That is why the Flemish Government is fully committed to lifelong learning. Only the key to the enforcement of, for example, additional training for job seekers at the federal level is that it does not succeed in reaching an agreement on this. The absence of such an agreement within the current government illustrates that Wallonia and Brussels have a very different idea of labour market reforms. This in turn underlines the pressing need and importance of the promised asymmetric policy, in which the federal government can conclude agreements with, for example, Flanders on these training courses. In this way, a tailor-made policy for the Flemish labour market can finally be implemented in Flanders, also with a stick behind the door and not only with a lot of roots. However, we do not see any of this. When we read the texts submitted by the government, we will see that this too will first be discussed with the Länder, although Minister Crevits asked very clear and concrete questions on behalf of the Flemish Government, which were delivered to you months ago by letter, Minister. However, the only thing that is now being decided is that there will be another consultation. With that, you laugh at Minister Crevits in her face and thus the Fleming. After all, it is the Fleming who will pay the price. It is the Fleming who will pay the price for a labour market policy that cannot be sufficiently tailored to its own needs. You also want to set up an inter-federal platform to promote the interregional mobility of the unemployed. It should be more facilitated that French speakers come to work across the language border in Flanders where necessary. For example, in the south of my own province of West Flanders a lot of French people come to work. Strangely enough, few Walen find the same path. However, it is the same distance in kilometres and it is about the same language barrier. So that's very strange. So you want to set up a new platform. Only you seem to have noticed that the platform already exists. It is called Synerjob, which is already a partnership with ACTIRIS, ADG, Bruxelles Formation, Forem and the VDAB, in order to address the challenges of the regional labour market more effectively. In this respect, too, you do not make the difference to announcing a new platform on top of a platform that already exists and does the same thing. It is therefore remarkable that, without radically changing labour market policies, you enter astronomical amounts in your budget as a payback effect in proportion to the measures announced. With an expected additional increase in the employment rate by 2024, you are counting on 1.7 billion euros in payback effects, without any action that could bring about the additional activation. It is always a question of taking decisions forward in time and passing them on to the social partners or at most being worth an experiment. You are counting on a payback effect of no less than 28,000 euros per full-time equivalent that you will get extra work done. Of course, this return will only be created if the employee concerned earns a gross wage of at least EUR 2,600 from day one. A third of employees, however, do not earn that much. I heard the Prime Minister earlier today about this. He indicated that the measure should better place and activate the low skilled and the lowest wages in the market. However, your payback effect will be much less than the 28,000 euros mentioned. After all, a third of employees do not earn 2,600 euros gross. In addition, the average post-employment unemployment is completely eliminated. Long-term unemployed have a benefit that is lower than the average. Also there is nibbling on your payback effects, even before even one payback effect is realized. For even lower wages, you may expect that the fiscal return will be even lower due, among other things, to the impact of the social work bonus and the tax shift. It is just in the low-wage segment that most job creation can be expected with effective activation. Mr President, your figures in the budget are therefore very much exaggerated. In your calculation, you assume that every new employee will receive unemployment benefit before he is activated. That's not true at all. In Flanders, for example, the challenge is to activate the inactive, people who do not work but who do not receive benefits. Of course, helping these people get to work is a good thing, but your payback effect will be much smaller because unemployment benefits will not go away. If you assume that every activated employee will have a payback effect of EUR 28,000, should we conclude that you want to activate Walen and Brusselsers in particular? If that is the case, we would like to know. In any case, it ensures that this budget and the accompanying measures relating to labour market policy are a prime example of Dutch arithmetic. It will then be paid by the people who do work because social security must always be paid. If we do not get a lot of people working, then we need to ask more people who are working. With the policy that is now being proposed, which is not a single activating measure, people are being led to benefits and even higher benefits in this case. Unemployment benefit increases by 4.5 per cent and living wage by 10 per cent and any activating measure is pushed forward over time. Apparently, this is how it works in Alexander De Croo's union government. We hold our hearts and we will continue to beat on the same nail in the hope that there will be some moving insight into this purple-green government. Please, Minister, work on the asymmetric labour policy and do not limit yourself to another round of consultation with the regions in order to end up in an experiment. Get your hands on the team right away. Flanders needs it, but Brussels and Wallonia need it just as much.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u145	Minister, if we can believe the reconstruction in the newspapers, you, or rather your smartphone, played a very important role in the government negotiations. The ringing of your device in the morning hours and lighting up the name of the capo di tutti capi caused panic. Everything was called into question again and the communication became confusing and multicolored, a bit like the fur and blue of this coalition. My intervention is not about that. I leave the writing of this chronicle to Wouter Verschelde, perhaps for the continuation of his book 'De doorgravers van België'. My intervention is about purchasing power and employment and what you do and above all what you do not do for the ordinary Flemings and Walls. The statements by yourself and the Prime Minister at the press conference highlighted the need for reforms of work. The possible success of your policy also depends, of course, largely on what your fellow Minister Frank Vandenbroucke can deliver on his promises about the reintegration of long-term sick. In recent years, our country has seen a sharp increase in the number of long-term sick. Nearly 500,000 people are in this situation and it is likely to get worse. The corona crisis has had a huge impact on the mental resilience of our population. The balance between work and private life, the end-of-life in the heavy professions, the increased retirement age also brings about spectacular growth for this group of people. At the beginning of this year you promised a federal action plan on stress at work before the end of this year, but after the announcement in March it became silent. Is that plan still coming towards the end of this year? The additional income from increasing the employment rate by 13,500 jobs per year, more than what the Planning Bureau has calculated, is also a very ambitious exercise. Better cooperation between employment agencies has been discussed for a very long time. The measure, which is described here as new, is yet another warmed-up Belgian cost. After all, we are allowed to ask these questions. Why do 17,000 frontier workers from Northern France come every day to work in West Flanders and only 7,000 from nearby Hainaut? Both regions suffer from high unemployment and the same language is spoken in both regions. It may be politically incorrect, but is it not more necessary to change attitudes? Isn't the hammock gentler for some of the population than the safety net? Will the announced policy address that? Will the Walloon unemployed, for an additional three-month contribution, 25% of his unemployment allowance, come to fill in a bottleneck job in the maled Flanders? I'm afraid so. I fear that this will require more. Perhaps, and perhaps, as you yourself have said, it will turn back to solidarity between the Belgians, where it is very clear who the recipients and, above all, who the payers will be. At the press conference we also learned that a response of all levels and thus also of the regions should encourage more action. However, since it will only be implemented in the table of savings, I do not expect too much of it, otherwise we might also expect it to generate an additional expenditure to reward the regions for the additional efforts they are making and which are tied to the result. Moreover, this also needs to be communicated to the regions. You yourself indicated that it would be difficult discussions. The question could be raised as to whether the greater resposabilisation of the regions is perhaps just windowdressing. The government declaration sometimes also uses the term greater autonomy. As a Flemish nationalist and probably this also applies to Walloon regionalist circles - I am certainly not reluctant to do so, although this autonomy is not for us alone. Autonomy and its own regional decision-making power come together with regional financial and fiscal responsibility, with the benefits and with the burden. As always, everything decided by the government has yet to pass through the social partners. So the decisions have not yet been decided at all. The hot potato is being pushed through. The balloons are embarrassed. The voters of all government parties are kept calm with some hot air. On the expenditure side, it is all very well beaten, but on the revenue side, it is the social partners who have to cut the knot or, above all, do not have to cut the knot. The only intention is to buy time, buy time to allow the MR and the PS each their scalp, buy time to get used to it by the Flemings and the Flemish parties. They can only look at it and sigh. After all, none of the motley coalition wants to get caught by blocking the federal system and provoking elections. The only one who smiles softly in his fist is Bouchez and the MR. The unions will, for other reasons, be happy to do their dirty work. Isn't anything good to get out of the State of the Union? Oh, yes, I do, I do. The special contribution to social security, which was introduced as a temporary crisis tax in 1994, when the then CVP received 30% of the Flemish votes, will now finally be lifted. There will therefore indeed be more purchasing power for workers. That will not happen immediately, because it is an extinct measure and when it comes to taxes, the flame is usually very slow. Hope already makes life here. You will also be focusing on the fight against fraud. We certainly have nothing against that. On the contrary, a genuine social policy goes hand in hand with strict controls on abuses for the Flemish interest. The profitariate and the fraudulent constructions must be tackled, but when it comes to the budget figures it is always a recurring song. There are spectacular figures in the budget, but they are often a lot less in the next account. For the coming year there will be an additional EUR 400 million for social and fiscal fraud and an additional EUR 110 million for corona aid controls, EUR 850 million for 2023 and EUR 1 billion for 2024. People are counting on money. Such forecasts usually melt as fast as the snow under a spring sun. Or have our inspection services been allowed to receive some USB sticks from some data breach from some tax haven against expectations? Last year, we also read a lot of good intentions about tackling social fraud in the various policy letters. Today, that is the case again, but in practice there is still a great deal of work to be done. As long as this battle is spread over the areas of competence of three ministers and there is no real political will to tackle this fraud, as long as there is no cooperation at all levels, it will of course continue to muddle, while there is certainly a need to tackle the whole chain, ranging from residence fraud, the harboring of illegal immigrants, undeclared work, trafficking in human beings, social dumping to the evasion of taxes and social contributions, outright fraud. The SIOD's action plan and concerns were very clear a few months ago. More people were asked for, more resources in the financial but also in the legal field and more cooperation with the police and the judiciary. We are still nowhere to check the corona support. In Flanders, about 4% of the payments were fraudulent. On the federal level, billions have been distributed. How many fraudulent files were in there? How much money has been recovered in the meantime? Asking the question is answering them. But this is the advantage of the fact that everything is spread over three ministers - at the end of the journey one can always open his umbrella and say that Minister Van Peteghem may have miscalculated. Another measure, announced in the press, is the adjustment of the discount on the first recruitment. You are thinking of capturing the maximum RSZ discount per quarter at 4,000 euros. That measure has rightly been used to stop the widespread abuse of the measure in the meantime. The Court of Auditors' report was therefore very critical, but a saving of just EUR 47 million for 2022, which amounts to EUR 65 million in 2024, is just a bitch compared to the EUR 1 billion spent on the measure. So you leave behind to really intervene in a system that has only limited added value for the efficacy level. The figures for new recruitments in the case of self-employed start-ups and the loss of jobs in the case of self-employed workers who stop their business show that the net balance is negligible and that the measure mainly costs a lot of money but does not reach the target. The money could be better used to lower labour costs for all workers. Another element of employment policy is training. You are linking that file to the reform of dismissal law and the implementation of Article 39ter in order to achieve a transition path. The question is who will do that. There have been a lot of redundancies, but of course there are also a lot of people who quickly find other jobs. Is this perhaps a task for the regional employment services? In the meantime, it seems that they have also been saved flatly and are also regional issues. Perhaps that is also what is needed for the many difficult talks that are still waiting with the regions. We are looking forward to seeing how you will achieve this in practice. What is also announced as a major reform of the labour market is a measure of nothing. The mountain gave birth to a mouse. In order to reduce incapacity for work, doctor's notes are deleted for one day's absence. SMEs would be granted an exception to that arrangement. The question is what additional jobs will be created. Perhaps the measure alleviates the pressure on the doctors, but for the rest it is a nonsensical measure which employers rightly fear will create an outbreak of Monday morning sickness. The only one who might gain something is social security, which hopefully will have to pay back a little less doctor's visits. I was also talking about the large group of long-term sick. Of course, this is directly linked to the employment problem in this country. Long-term sick workers will have to fill out a questionnaire after 10 weeks. How that will help reactivation is still unclear to me. Will the 80 return coaches of Vandenbroucke read and evaluate all these forms? If you do not complete the form, you lose 2.5 % of your benefit. That is a ridiculous measure for us. Will someone who is undergoing severe cancer treatment be forced to fill in a leaf to explain why he or she cannot work? They are not all profiteers, but that is clearly suggested. Moreover, it is very similar to the saga with the thorough checks on the IGO by the postmen, where a cannon was fired on a mosquito and afterward the wrong people appeared to be affected. The measure will yield nothing but nothing. Employers with more than 50 employees are also endorsed. As a reward for their efforts to put so many people to work, they will be the only ones severely punished with a penalty of 2.5 percent of the wage mass during a quarter, if their business has an excessive number of sick. However, this measure is only available to workers under 55 years of age, leaving the largest group of long-term patients unaffected. There is therefore no serious plan for the end-of-life problems and the heavy professions which must result in workable work. You announced a partial plan by the end of the year, we're waiting. On the positive side, however, there is a cut in sickness fund allowances for long-term ill. The regions would also receive more money from the federal government if they could guide more sick people to work. This has been the case in Flanders for years. It is a fine challenge for Brussels and Wallonia, who usually take the begging staff to the federal government. The rest of the famous labour market reform is being passed on to the social partners, such as the flexible four-day week based on 38 hours and evening and night work in e-commerce. Whether it is all realistic in a real business environment, whether it benefits the accessibility of public services, what its impact is on the work-life balance, all these questions are passed on to the social partners. I will end my speech with what is not mentioned and it seems that people have suddenly been forgotten. We have talked a few times today about the specific RSZ discounts for top footballers. Today, quite rightly, an approach is finally being launched. My colleague Samyn and I have already tabled a legislative proposal on this matter. That will not be followed, but you will not hear me grieve. What color the cat has, doesn't matter, as long as it catches mice, we are told in Flanders. But we also need to go further, including by limiting the number of non-EU players, so that our own youth players really get more opportunities in football in our country. That may cause some swelling at a number of rich and big clubs and some football brokers, but so be it. What wakes thousands of people up is the imminent end of association work in the sport and culture sector. Then it's about people giving training to our children, who on Sunday make sure that the beer is tapped in the cafeteria or that there are lessons Word and Drama are given on a high level. They will soon see their specific status come to an end. A new proposal is still not on the table. The current law, which was adopted last year, namely on 24 December, will cease on 31 December 2021. And there is still no definitive solution. Many associations and organisations and thousands of them are living with great uncertainty. What are the intentions for 2022? How's the meeting going? What about the unfair double taxation that is still levied on that work? The continuing problem of social dumping is also given very little attention. In addition to legal social dumping through the European Posting of Workers Directive, which in itself is disastrous, there is also illegal social dumping and fraud. Because of both legal and illegal dumping, foreign workers are much cheaper than ours. The consequences are dramatic. Thousands of Flemish jobs are lost, not only in transport, the metal sector, construction, horticulture, monitoring and nutrition, but also in many other sectors. In the meantime, the government is losing tax revenue and our social security is being undermined. Employers who do not participate are priced out of the market or go bankrupt. If we want to anchor our transport sector locally, increase safety in our yards, strengthen our social security and continue to provide jobs for our people, then we must do more than walk well with the EU. Then here in Parliament we must adopt the necessary laws to stop social dumping. Finally, the only thing the Fleming knows with certainty is who will pay the invoice. The ordinary Fleming will be billed by the fur blue coalition, because the policy proposed yesterday is not Flemish policy. It is not a policy that makes ordinary Flemish people better. That should not be called surprising, since the government does not, of course, have political parties in which the Fleming puts its trust. It is not the government where the Flemish voted in 2019. It's not our government either. She's not today, and she won't be tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u146	Minister, your government has announced a number of measures in the field of labour market policy to increase the level of activity. There are no less than 35 measures in place. Today we get more information through the newspapers than in Parliament. An article in De Tijd shows that half of these measures aim to accelerate the completion of bottleneck professions. These include training, the possibility of temporarily combining work with benefits and greater freedom for regional employment services. In De Tijd we got a short, general list. Do you understand that this is not enough for us, Minister? It is time to inform Parliament. We want to see that list of measures. Can you give it to us today? Do you also have an answer to the following questions? What are those 35 points? I took half of it out of Time. Is it true that the government is planning... that scared the hell out of me? I take the example of Mr Van Quickenborne, who is no longer here. So you will check a Walloon unemployed person harder than a Flemish and check whether he does take a job across the language line. How do you explain that? As far as training is concerned, can you guarantee that there will be no penalties for who chooses a training other than a training course for a bottleneck profession? What makes a profession a bottleneck profession anyway? That is still not quite clear to me. Is it a bad wage or bad working conditions? Are there any proposals in your 35 measures to deal with this? We also need to see if the 13,500 new jobs that the government will create will all be quality full-time jobs. According to Eurostat, there were 2.2 % precarious jobs in the EU, compared with 3.9 % in Belgium. That is the seventh worst score at the European level. We were at 3 % in 2014. The Michel administration added 0.9 %. In 2020, there was 16.7% part-time work in the EU, compared with 23.9 % in Belgium. That is the third worst score at the European level. What is your ambition in this area? I would also like to talk about the four-day week. It is very sensitive to me, at least when it comes to a working week in which five days in four days are pressed together. So it is not the reduction in working time that we are talking about. The ABVV has already expressed a negative opinion on this. I understand. A hundred years ago, an eight-hour day of work came through the struggle of the working class. We have already heard today who, according to some people, has taken care of this. I insist that the working class has acquired it through the battle on the street. Today the eight-hour day of work is buried: we go to four days of 10 hours. That's not a reduction in working hours, it's a four-day compressed week. The ABVV is right, that is not the appropriate answer to the increased workload. That proposal really raises some questions. How will your proposal create new jobs? In addition to your proposal, there is also an opportunity to perform 220 extra overtime. How can the increase in working hours be reconciled with the creation of new jobs? You really need to explain that to me. How should this measure improve the reconciliation between work and private life? The Ligue des familles say that they are negative, because these long days result in less time to take care of the children. Those long days will have a negative impact on the still unequal distribution of household tasks between men and women. Do you also know what impact that measure will have on the number of long-term sick? Has there been an assessment of that? You are always talking about respecting social dialogue. You're nodding. In January, we discussed, among other things, the Ipa. For example, an opinion will be requested from the social partners in order to facilitate night work. That's what we talked about earlier. As for some other measures announced by this government, pattern organisations are rather positive and trade unions are rather negative. That shouldn't be surprising. The relaxation of night work was expressly requested by the employers' organization Comeos. The trade unions are on the brakes, because they know what that means. It is a form of social decline and the start of a low-wage sector with poor working conditions. We really should not talk lightly about night work. The consequences are not least: fatigue, a disturbance of the biorhythm and a disturbance of family and social life. I come back to my question which has still not been answered and which Mr Loones once again asked: what if social dialogue fails? Will you then cut the knot and choose the side of the patterns again or will you choose the employees for once this time?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u147	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as Minister for Employment, it was essential for me to take measures under this budget to improve and reform our labour market, not from a budgetary point of view, not to be able to culpabilise or punish people, but to offer workers and businesses new opportunities after the crisis we are experiencing. This reform is, of course, in line with the Government's objective of achieving an employment rate of 80% by 2030, with the support of and in cooperation with the Regions. The structural measures associated with the federal government's investment decided on in the last conclave will enable the creation of 13,500 additional jobs per year. Those figures are realistic, but they are also cautious. For example, the measures for bottleneck professions will create 3,500 jobs in 2022, 7,000 jobs in 2023 and 7,000 jobs in 2024. The improvement of reintegration pathways will also result in the creation of 3,200 jobs in 2022, 5,000 in 2023 and 5,000 in 2024. Here too, the figures must be put in perspective. There are currently 470,000 disabled. By the way, there were 32,000 reintegration pathways in 2019, more than 60% of which resulted in dismissal due to medical force majeure. That's why I'm reforming this system. I am convinced that with my reform, which I will shortly propose, the pathways will finally become a truly positive tool for reintegration. The objective is for 10% of the sick workers to return to work. The reforms of my colleagues on social affairs, finance, self-employment and investment will also create jobs. We have remained very cautious about the payback effects on job creation by setting an amount of 28,000 euros per job. In some academic studies, such as the ULB, the payback effects of job creation are estimated at around €38.000. For sick workers, we've been even more careful. The amount that has been withheld is 18,000 euros. This allows to take into account a gradual return to work and a partial retention of benefits. The figures used in this budget are therefore cautious and credible. One of the challenges in our country is the bottleneck professions. Some sectors are suffering from labour shortages, such as the construction sector, which will be heavily questioned for post-flood reconstruction and the relance plan; the catering sector which needs to recover after the health crisis and care, where there is still a shortage of hands on the bed. We must take account of these problems which affect our companies, but above all also of workers who need to do more work and who are under great pressure. In response to this situation, the government has taken a series of measures. Firstly, an inter-federal platform will be set up to encourage the mobility of workers. This platform will make it possible to identify the difficulties of labour mobility between regions. There is still a great deal of room for improvement, especially for disadvantaged professions. It will also be used to propose new measures. This platform will be created around Synerjob, the consultation between the regional employment services and also the RSZ will be represented. Secondly, the regions will be consulted in order to explore how to improve the powers of each region with regard to the succession of jobseekers. The aim is to provide the Regions with greater autonomy and efficiency in supporting job seekers. Thirdly, regional policy will be supported. Premiums for successful training for a bottleneck profession or a possible higher training premium of the Regions can be combined with unemployment benefit. There will also be an adjustment of taxation. Fourthly, sectoral training funds will be further encouraged and supported. The social partners at sectoral level will be invited to make greater use of sectoral funds to stimulate training for the problem-solving professions. We will also make it possible to set up intersectoral funds to encourage retraining and mobility in the labour market, including to move from one sector to another. Training plans within companies will be encouraged. Companies will be asked to draw up an annual training plan with specific attention to bottleneck occupations and older workers. At federal level, together with the social partners, we will monitor the bottleneck professions and their causes. Every two years the Joint Committees will be asked to draw up a list of the bottleneck professions in the sector. We also ask them to think about the causes of the deficits and about measures to remedy them. I will, of course, do so in close cooperation with the regions. We commit ourselves to evaluating and valorising the agreements of the social partners to combat bottleneck professions, for example the agreement in the construction sector which is being fully implemented. Employers' groups will also be improved. Application leave will be revised to provide greater flexibility for workers seeking another job. Finally, jobseekers will be rewarded for taking the step towards a bottleneck profession or a job in another region. They can retain part of their benefit during the first three months. The intention is to give them a financial incentive so that they are encouraged to reorient themselves. I would like to remind you that a gender-specific approach to the situation is fundamental in taking these measures. We cannot combat labour shortages effectively without overcoming gender stereotypes. As regards consultation with the Länder, these and other measures will be discussed with the Länder. The aim is an optimal execution and application. If necessary, this can be asymmetrical. The measures will also be evaluated with the Länder. Mr Anseeeuw, contrary to what you say, we listen to the requests of the Flemish Region and analyse them, just as we listen to the requests of the Walloon Region, the Brussels Region and the German-speaking Community. That's a matter of respect. Before my proposals were discussed in the federal government, I submitted them to my colleagues in the Länder, with whom I had the opportunity to exchange views. A meeting will be held very soon to continue these discussions. You will find that I have already made a large number of requests from the regions possible. A first important point was more autonomy for the Regions regarding availability. This will, of course, be done in consultation and within the existing institutional framework. This means, for example, that the regions will have more opportunities to determine individualised pathways to work. For example, they can refer a job seeker to voluntary work. The regions are given more room for manoeuvre to propose sanctions. The procedures of regional digital authorities can also be taken into account. A second point, which I will come back to, is the improvement of reintegration pathways. Thirdly, together with Minister Vandenbroucke, we will introduce an instrument to calculate the positive impact of returning to work for disabled people and people with disabilities. We will also allow exceptions to the minimum of three hours and the one-third time rule in the context of a partial return to work if the doctor agrees, as a pilot project for people with disabilities. We will carry out transitions; I will come back to that too. We will also set up intersectoral funds, which I will come back to. We are also reviewing Article 39b in order to improve the mobility and employability of workers. Benefits for successful training in a bottleneck profession and training income will be combined with unemployment benefits. For the registration of temporary unemployed we will evaluate the framework of the existing ministerial decision. The aim is to provide people who are temporarily unemployed more quickly and intensively with appropriate training, possibly with an asymmetrical content. However, it should be taken into account that the employee must remain available to return to work and no additional administrative burden should be created. Mr Anseuw, we have met most of the measures requested by Flemish fellow Minister Crevits. We will continue the consultations within the framework of the inter-federal platform. As far as social dialogue is concerned, Mr De Roover and Mr Anseuw say that our measures are an empty box. There was criticism because we did not take tough measures, but referred to the social dialogue. Indeed, contrary to what you did during the previous legislature, we do respect the social dialogue. The social partners must discuss matters within their competence. We give a clear mandate to the social partners to address important challenges. The social partners will need to rapidly improve the framework for teleworking. That is indeed a real priority now that work in the office is resumed. The requirements of workers and the needs of enterprises must be met. Workers must be given the right to telework, and if the employer refuses to do so, he must motivate it. The health crisis has also brought about major changes in the labour market, in particular as regards the combination of private and professional life. We will therefore put the following questions to the social partners: the implementation of a working time registration mechanism, the possibility of working four days instead of five days, more opportunities to work more one week and less the other week, for example in the case of alternating custody of children, offering workers a right to deconnection and providing people working part-time with a better predictability of their timetable. The aim is clear and the social partners know that: we want to offer workers a better combination of private and professional life. These measures can therefore only be implemented with the agreement of the workers. I would also point out that the government is committed to equality between women and men and to reconciling private and professional life is, as everyone knows, a fundamental issue in this respect. I now turn to the reintegration of long-term sick. The government, in line with the government agreement, approves the broad lines of the Re-integration 2.0 plan among employers. The process is simplified by reducing the number of decisions and more emphasis is placed on talents and residual capacities. Incentives will also be examined to financially reward employers and workers who achieve successful reintegration before or after a reintegration project and to strengthen the multidisciplinary nature of the guidance. Finally, more qualitative and quantitative data and information will be collected and processed in order to make it possible to evaluate the pathways more effectively. We will also facilitate the creation of the sectoral penisibility funds that enable the social partners in the sectors to take action. After the employment conference, we will draw up an action plan to improve the employment rate of older workers. One of the measures in the plan is the creation of sectoral funds already in existence in the chemicals sector with the Demographic Fund, in the construction sector with the Construction Fund and in the service cheque sector with the Employability Fund. Data mining will help to identify the incidence of occupational risks, occupational diseases and accidents at work in the various sectors, as well as life expectancy in good health and life expectancy. All this with a view to setting up and strengthening sectoral funds and combating the heaviness of short, medium and long term functions. These measures will make it possible to improve working conditions. These may include measures to promote the adaptation of jobs, to improve prevention and to enable the adjustment of working hours. Another measure is a compulsory social plan with a training component in the event of restructuring or collective redundancies. The right to training of workers is also an important element. The High Employment Council has clearly stated that access to training is one of the keys to increasing employment rates. This access is currently not sufficiently extensive and poorly distributed. Eurostat figures show that workers aged 25-34 receive three times more training than workers aged 55-64. It is even more striking that low skilled workers have about six times less access to training than highly qualified workers. Women also receive less education than men. This is the first time that we will grant an individual right to training. By 2024 this fee will be 5 days a year. Of course, we will provide a flexible system for the individual training budget. For example, one year less and another year more training days can be held. The most important is that the five training days per year are awarded over a five-year period. Companies with fewer than 10 employees remain eligible for exceptions. This also applies to enterprises with fewer than 20 employees. In addition, the social partners will also be able to conclude collective agreements to adapt these obligations. The common thread for this government is that the most vulnerable are never forgotten. In addition to the measures taken to control rising energy costs, such as the energy cheque and the social tariff, my colleague Karine Lalieux will also propose other measures to help the most vulnerable. As a reminder, thanks to this government, unemployment benefits will increase on 1 January 2022 and in subsequent years. In the context of this budget approach, I also obtained the equivalence of temporary unemployment due to corona in '20-'21 for the calculation of annual holidays. This was of fundamental importance to me. Workers will therefore be able to have their full holiday allowance. Article 39b of the employment contract law has been a difficult issue for social consultation for years. We will review this article to make it feasible. This reform is a step in the right direction. The employee no longer runs the risk of losing part of his notice period. From now on, notice periods of more than 30 weeks will be split into two. The first part corresponds to two thirds of the notice period, but may not be less than 26 weeks. This part doesn't change anything. The employee will perform his or her notice period or receive a compensatory allowance, as is currently the case. The second part will now be granted in the form of a cancellation allowance. The employee is therefore paid his wage at once for the remaining weeks. During the period covered by this allowance, the employee must make himself available for employability measures unless he has found a job. These employability measures will be financed by the contributions levied on the benefit. This means that the employee will not lose a euro of his or her cancellation fee. This reform will encourage the mobility of workers by enabling them to receive more training between two jobs. The reform will also enable redundant workers to leave their employer more quickly while retaining their salary, so that they can concentrate on finding a job and preparing for any retraining. We also want to encourage the transition from one job to another. That's why we're going to allow transitions as part of the dismissal process. These trajectories are entirely voluntary. In concrete terms, a redundant worker will be able to work with a new employer immediately through a regional employment office or an interim office instead of giving his notice to the old employer. The employee retains his full wage and if he is not recruited by the new employer at the end of his transition, he will, of course, retain the right to unemployment benefit and will logically receive notice or compensation. As far as e-commerce is concerned, we know that more and more Belgians buy online. Since the corona crisis, that has increased further. Despite its many assets, Belgium has been lagging behind in the development of e-commerce. Several factors are at the root of this, namely tax factors, the organisation of work, competition between Belgian and foreign platforms, the price of supplies, the illegal commercial practices of certain foreign players and so on. Therefore, together with the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Mobility, the Minister of Public Enterprises and the Secretary of State for Digitisation, I will launch the e-commerce strategy for Belgium. At the same time, with due respect for the social dialogue, the Group of Ten will be asked for an opinion on possible adjustments to the working arrangements. We will continue the fight against social dumping and social fraud and the monitoring of sub-contracting. An amendment to the Postal Act will make it possible to better control sub-contracting in the parcel delivery sector. We are investigating whether this can also be done for other risk sectors. In addition, the number of social inspectors will be increased. Mr Verreyt, in 2022 50 inspectors will be recruited from the social inspection services. These inspectors will, inter alia, carry out additional checks on the misuse of corona support measures. Mr Colebunders, they will also be there to ensure the health, safety and well-being of workers at work.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u148	Thank you, Minister, for your very detailed answer and for the effort you have made to do so. I appreciate that very much. You have started with the extensive elaborating of the current government's ambition and with your personal ambition in your capacity as the competent minister for labour market policy. However, we already largely knew what that ambition sounded like. Your answer shows, first of all, that much remains to be worked out. This confirms the point that I made earlier in my speech but also earlier today in the debate, namely that a great deal remains to be decided. You say, for example, that you want to respect social dialogue. Yours is therefore the claim that this is unlike the previous federal government. However, that is a detail. If I understand correctly and you want to respect the social dialogue, there is a risk that no agreement will be reached on, for example, the flexible working week. This is a measure whereby the 38 hours of the working week could be performed on a voluntary basis in four days, if appropriate for the employee, in order to improve the work-life balance. We also support this measure. The question then is what the government will decide if it does. What will you decide? I read between the lines, but you have to improve me, that you are also fond of that measure. You are also of the opinion that this should be possible on a voluntary basis and at the request of the worker. Will the government decide, if the social partners themselves do not get out of it, to implement the measure effectively? I trust you will be able to answer that question. You did not reassure me about the asymmetrical labour market policy. However, you indicate that you have also submitted your proposals, which are now included in the agreement, to the regional ministers for employment. I also asked you very explicitly not to make another round of consultations. After all, 29 very specific questions have come from Flanders. You say that most will be met. However, we did not get that list. Asymmetric labour market policies are extremely important for all regions. I understand, however, that you still want to analyse a number of points. You used the word. You still want to analyse the best way to do this. However, it is about concrete questions from Flanders. I know about that. I do not know Wallonia's questions, but that is not surprising in itself and is not a problem for me either. However, we know that there are specific questions on the table. However, you say that you want to analyse again with respect for the division of powers. We ask you not to go outside the law. However, we are asking you to think ahead and to look forward in what way powers can be better distributed, so that in the future asymmetric labour market policy is less and less needed in the facts. For example, there is a very specific question of autonomy with regard to the availability of job seekers. You want to strengthen the autonomy of the regions in this area. I asked other colleagues of yours earlier today what we should imagine in strengthening that autonomy. They didn't know. You've lifted a tip from the veil here. That too seems more like a skinny beast. After all, you note that it will mean that sanctions can be proposed. If sanctions can be proposed, without knowing whether they are being implemented, that part of the story is rather a toothless tiger. Worse still, I believe that this can be even more counterproductive, because it highlights the fact that the regions cannot impose sanctions. Who, or what, will they depend on to see the sanctions implemented or not? What conditions will it have to meet if the proposed sanctions are to be implemented effectively? Who's gonna decide that? Who's gonna decide that? In the end, it will mean once again that the regions will not decide that. In that case, it's an empty box. We are also looking at another question from Flanders, which has already been asked several times, namely to make the registration of intensive temporary unemployed compulsory again. Will you or will you not answer that question? The question is already well known. She's been known for months. There must therefore be little study work or analysis for it. So I would like to have a very concrete answer. I put the question to other Members, including Mr Verherstraeten, who prided himself on the fact that things would be fine, but had to withdraw his tail afterwards. Nobody knew. The Prime Minister didn't know either. Perhaps you can clarify whether the compulsory registration of intensive temporary unemployed is being re-established, inter alia at the request of Flanders, or not? That is a very specific question I would like to ask you. I come to my next question. The reform of labour market policies will involve a gender-specific approach. You said that gender stereotypes must be broken. I would like to know from you what you mean by that in concrete terms in terms of measures. What measures will you take to achieve this in the context of a gender-specific approach? I can imagine a lot, but at the same time not that much. I want to avoid any misunderstandings. Hence my very specific question about a very specific description of what we should or should not imagine. You also referred briefly to fraud. Earlier today, it was also quite comprehensive about this. I have a specific question about this. For 2021, EUR 200 million has been registered as revenue from the fight against tax and social fraud. For 2022, it is EUR 400 million, and for 2024 it is already EUR 1 billion. The EUR 400 million for 2022 are 400 new millions you need to find, it is not 200 million above 221 million this year. Unless you assume that every fraud gets caught every year? I hope that it will be a policy that will deter fraud, and that you will not take the same things every year, with a surplus each time. What share of the EUR 400 million for 2022 will come from the fight against social fraud within your powers? I'm very interested in that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u149	Minister, from your previous reply, I abstained on one important matter, namely the need to increase the rate of activity to 80%, in order to keep everything affordable. In Flanders we are almost there already, but of course the low-hanging fruit has been picked for a long time. In Wallonia and Brussels, however, we are still a long way from that. In the first part of your reply, you frequently cited cooperation with the regions for the specific policies necessary for the specific needs of the regions. Of course, we welcome this asymmetric policy, because it is necessary to be able to get real 80%. We must adapt to the specific requirements and needs. Meanwhile, the Flemish labour market is overheating. This is, of course, a problem that we know more about in Flanders than in the rest of the country. The number of bottleneck occupations is growing very rapidly in the north of the country. It is up to all of us to get on the team in that regard. There's more than enough work for us.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u150	Minister, I think that either the translation was wrong or my questions were not clear, but I did not get an answer on many issues. I have already asked the question, then Mr Loones asked them, then I asked them again, and finally Mr Anseuw asked them again: what if social dialogue fails? That's a simple question. What are you gonna do? I know it's not a nice question. You answered me when I asked you the same question about the Ipa, but now you're not doing it. I agree with what Mr Anseuw says. I have heard many times that the intention is present, that you will make the evaluation and make sure that there will be more control in the workplace. I have often seen in the texts that companies from 50 workers can be fined for long-term illness, but under that figure it is a big question mark. I've been wondering how people got that figure of 50 all the time, but I think I know it now. 50 employees determine whether they have a trade union in their company or not. And now let companies from 50 employees have a CPBW or a syndicated delegation. Also in companies with fewer than 50 employees there is supervision, one stronger than the other. I trust those people are doing their job well, but I keep worrying about them. What's happening to them? For example, what are you doing with a construction worker who works in very poor working conditions with a boss who may have five people directly employed? How are you gonna check on that employer? Will you put the inspection service on that and charge that the employee has no lift at his disposal to bring up his bags of cement and bricks every day with the ladder? I don't know how you're gonna look at that. Perhaps you should consider making a CPBW possible in companies with less than 50 employees? Wouldn't that be a solution? It's just a thought. I'll take a look at you. I thought that would be an ideal solution. It also saves inspectors, because then the ball lies with the union who knows the work situation better than anyone. So that's a great solution. I do not know if you would find a majority for that within your Vivaldi government, because I feel the journey on my left coming from the liberals. In addition, I am left with the question of workload. How are you going to handle it? In all your proposals I have not heard anything about workload, just about flexibilisation and control. So nothing about the whole situation that's freaking people out. I have just made a statement on the actions that are taking place at Lidl, this morning I was there. Those people have gone into reconciliation a few times, but always walk head-on against the wall. They were good enough to be on the front line during the coronapandemic, for which they were rewarded by Vivaldi with 0.4% storage, but now the workload continues to rise without anyone doing anything. Moreover, a bailiff has just been sent to them, so that action has also been broken. Like those people just don't have a right to a rebuttal. I'm not into that, because on that picket I heard from those people that they already have to work overtime while there are now 220 overtime on top. You will say: we are going to improve your home situation, because we are going to make it a four-day week. They often already have them, a four-day week of ten hours a day. In a lot of shops, that's the way it is. You just have to ask yourself whether these people are overloaded or not. You really did not convince me with your solutions, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u151	Minister, we do not often have the opportunity to debate each other. I am more on the Committee on Budgets, but you, of course, manage a portfolio that has a huge impact on the budget. That is why I have a question about the figures. The coalition agreement said that in 2024, thanks to your measures, you would raise EUR 400 million. A positive budgetary effect, more people working, fewer benefits, additional taxes. Then came comments from the Court of Auditors: we don't believe it. There was comments from the labour market experts: we don't believe that either. There will now be a new round of budgets. I expected to see measures here that would motivate why the EUR 400 million was justified, but instead we saw an addition. The EUR 400 million has suddenly become EUR 1.2 billion. So instead of motivating that 400 million euros is right, the bubble is just blown three times bigger. You say in your statement that you have carefully budgeted. So I assume you have chips that you shared with the Secretary of State for the Budget. I would ask you to deliver it to Parliament so that we can check the figures and see if your figures are correct. I'm looking at what the Federal Planning Agency says about job creation in an unchanged policy. Plus your 13,500 jobs. I do not think you will get this figure, but I still want to go along with your reasoning. With an unchanged policy, 13,500 jobs will be added in the years 2022, 2023 and 2024, which is very positive but we take the average. Then one comes to about 43,000 jobs a year, which you will create with the unchanged policy and the extra job creation. We still have 9 years until 2030. Then we get a total of 387,000 jobs. This is not an employment rate of 80%. To achieve an employment rate of 80%, we need at least 660,000 jobs. With what you do extra, you come up with just over half of it. So there's something wrong with the numbers. Budgetary effects are recorded which are not in line with the ambition set out in the coalition agreement. So I have a bill for you, Minister. Maybe I'm wrong about this. I'd love to know where the mistake is. Everyone sees this 80% employment rate as the holy grail and the solution to all problems, but colleagues, it certainly is not budgetary. If you manage to achieve an employment rate of 80%, this will have a budgetary impact of around EUR 13 billion, while we have a deficit of EUR 21 billion. So there is still a delta of EUR 8 billion, which will also have to be found. That worries me as a grader, because of course I do see what happens if the figures are wrong, because then the taxes will be increased. And we have no lack of taxes in this country. Can you get us the chips? I'm assuming they're made. That must be possible before the vote at 3 p.m. Then we can decide carefully whether we might give you the confidence if we can see that those figures are correct. We're always open to surprises.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u152	Mr Colebunders, Lidl's workers have indeed gone on strike. They have had a very difficult time. I have a great deal of respect for the work they have done and, of course, I am in solidarity with those workers. The Minister and our group leader have already said it, but pressure is a problem. There are a lot of efforts to better fill in these bottleneck professions. On the other hand, higher wages are also being used for those people. However, you are looking at the matter on a rather one-sided basis. I am not going to list all the measures, but I would like to mention a few that may be very important to those people. There's gonna be a system of time-registering. This is an important requirement to reduce the number of hours and the workload. Mrs Vindevoghel, you referred to this earlier, there will also be a system that will require more flexible timetables to be published in advance. In this way one should not constantly switch shifts, which puts more pressure on people. If that is announced in advance, there will be more stability for those people. There will also be an extension of the demographic funds. There is the example of chemistry. The trade unions have said that this is a good example. It is jointly managed and is used together with that fund for workability, workload and improvement of working conditions in companies. That model will be expanded further. These are three important concrete measures, which are in line with them. This is also the package presented to the social partners. It is not, therefore, just that more flexibility is being presented and that employers can sit back. There are many other measures which also benefit from this workload and on which agreement must be reached within the social dialogue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u153	Madam President, Mrs Vanrobaeys, I would like to thank you for the cooperation and explanation of our measures on the heavy professions and the workload. Mijnheer Loones, show me the money! Convincing you might be too much of a challenge for me. That's very difficult, it's really a challenge. The 80% level of activity is an ambitious target as well as a collective objective, a collective responsibility of the federal government, the Regions and the regions. We can only achieve this objective in cooperation with the regions. If you will allow me to say this in French, it is really an objective to be pursued together, in cooperation with the Regions. We know that the Regions are pursuing this objective and are putting in place mechanisms that will, I hope, achieve this rate of 80%. As far as the various figures are concerned, I think I have explained them in the context of my reply to Mr Anseeuw. The improvement in reintegration paths and numbers is 3,200 jobs in 2022, 5,000 jobs in 2023 and another 5,000 jobs in 2024. That is ambitious, but it is also carefully calculated. By the way, there were 32,000 reintegration pathways in 2019. It is therefore 1.5% of the number of disabled persons. Measures to combat the bottleneck professions will create 3,500 jobs in 2022, 7,000 jobs in 2023 and 7,000 jobs in 2024 out of a total of 140,000 vacancies only for bottleneck professions. On Mr Anseeeuw's questions on anti-discrimination policy, cooperation with the regions and social dialogue...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u154	I shall briefly list the questions. I had asked a question about the social consultation on the flexible working week. If that is not brought to a fruitful conclusion, what will the government decide? Secondly, what is the revenue from social fraud for 2022 for your powers? Thirdly, the gender-specific approach, as you call it, what should we propose in concrete terms? What measures will you take in this context? Fourthly, the compulsory registration of temporary unemployed is a very explicit demand from Flanders to the federal government. Will you re-enter that mandatory registration or not? If you can answer that, I'll be very happy. These are a number of specific questions to which I would like a specific answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u155	I will try to give you a concrete answer, Mr Anseuw. As the Prime Minister said earlier, opinions will be sought from the social partners. In some cases, concrete proposals will be made to them, leaving them, of course, a time frame for consultation, for working, either to react to these proposals or to give opinions or to formulate proposals themselves. I sincerely hope that they will be able to do so. We have tried to make packages of balanced measures. Mrs. Vanrobaeys recalled some of them. I am thinking in particular of the recording of working time, the right to disconnection, flexibility in the organisation of working time and the reconciliation between work and private life. In any case, we will do everything we can to ensure that this social dialogue is successful. If this is not the case, the dossier will return to the table of the government which will debate it, with the aim of proposing more concrete texts to the social partners. That is how we have always done it, and that is how we will proceed in the future. But I really hope that social dialogue can lead to these different themes that are important for the world of work and for our economy. As far as the compulsory registration of temporary unemployed persons with regional employment agencies is concerned, as I said in my reply, Mr Anseeuw, we will, in consultation and cooperation with the Regions, evaluate and amend, if necessary, the scheme to allow faster registration and to ensure that temporary unemployed persons are referred to training, taking into account the need for them to be able to return to their employers as soon as possible, if they need them, while taking into account the maximum administrative burden on regional services, be it for employers and/or workers. We are going to put this system in place very quickly, in consultation with the Regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u156	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u157	Mandatory? We'll look into that with the Regions. We need to strike a balance between the speed...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u158	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u159	My ambition? My ambition is to ensure that everyone has access to good training as quickly as possible. That is why we are putting in place an individual right to training. For me: training, training, training, zogezegd door mevrouw Crevits! This allows me to link directly with the specific question of gender. I mentioned earlier the different socio-occupational categories in terms of their access to training, particularly within the company. Today, there is considerable discrimination between those who have access to training and those who do not have access to it. A review of the various reports reveals that women have far less access to in-company training in the world of work. The creation and implementation of this individual training account is one of the first responses to this discrimination and the need for gender-sensitive policies.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u160	With regard to compulsory registration for the temporary unemployed, you are very clear, which is not being introduced. You will consult with the regions, but you only need one region to implement asymmetric policies in this area. If certain regions in this country do not consider this obligation appropriate, but one region is asking that question very explicitly, you can skip the discussion. My question is quite clear, namely whether you will answer that question or not. The answer is simple, yes or no. I hope you'll answer that. You hope that an agreement will be reached in the social dialogue on the framework of the flexible working week. It is still unclear what the government will decide if it does not. Will you fold for a very conservative reflex of the trade unions who are very reluctant to do so, while it could improve the quality of life for many workers? Will you effectively have the courage to make the decision to allow the flexibility of the working week? You forgot to answer the question about the proceeds of social fraud. Can you still do that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u161	I wish you every success. After all, there is a lot of pressure on your shoulders. The extent to which you are successful and succeed in creating many jobs will significantly determine how the economic recovery in this country will take shape. At the same time, you have a great job. You are about the 20 euros that are unexpectedly found in a pants that just came out of the closet. That is always fun, because one can spend it several times. Psychologically, that's okay. One can eat something with it or drink something with it, they are always satisfied. The revenue from your labour market policy is for the government a bit like that 20 euro. Other ministers want to spend Mr Dermagne's money on additional social spending. Mrs Lalieux wants to use Mr Dermagne's money to pay pensions. Mrs De Bleeker wants to use Mr Dermagne's money to close the budget deficits. You have a cool part, you can do a lot of people fun. However, we do know that you can only please one person with that money. We wish you every success. We will follow it closely, but that was already clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u162	Madam President, a question has been asked by Mr Anseew on the fight against social fraud and on the performance of this fight. Looking at the targets set in the 2021 budget, we set EUR 200 million in return for the fight against tax fraud and social fraud. To give you a figure, in the first half of 2021, we had reached 167 million returns, only in the context of the fight against social fraud. There is indeed money to be found at this level. This is what we are doing, particularly in the framework of the plan to combat tax fraud and social fraud, with SIRS/SIOD and with specific actions in a range of sectors where fraud is perceived to be important. We also did so as part of the Corona measures. You see in the budget table that 110 million are foreseen in 2022, as part of the fight against fraud in the various measures of the Corona. In terms of performance, this includes 25 million at the level of the ONEM, 12 million at the level of the ONSS, 38.5 million at the level of the INASTI and 1.73 million at the level of social integration, just in the context of measures to combat fraud in the use of the corona support measures. As I was able to say in response to Mr Colebunders' question, we decided, in the context of the 2022 budget, to strengthen the teams of inspectors in all the various social inspection services. So 50 additional inspectors will come to strengthen the different teams. There is also, as you know, as we have mentioned once in committee, a whole series of data mining work, carried out by the various inspection services, to really detect as quickly as possible, on the basis of data and algorithms, places, places, companies, activities where fraud is important, especially in social matters.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u163	Thank you, Minister, for your reply on the proceeds of the fight against social fraud. You say that 167 million was raised in the first semester alone, where the plan of action for combating tax and social fraud is 200 million. This is an incredible success, but you did refer to other lines in the budgetary table in the explanatory statement of the 167 million, such as the RVA line. It is independent of the proceeds registered under the action plan to combat tax and social fraud. These are 400 million for next year, 700 million for 2023 and 1 billion for 2024. For a good understanding and to keep these two things apart, there are a number of specific lines that are not included in the 400 million for next year. You mentioned this as an element of my answer to my question about the 400 million. I think there is some confusion there and I would like to clarify my question. When it comes to the 400 million in the context of the action plan to combat tax and social fraud, what will be its share? You give the impression here that out of the 200 million entered in the action plan for 2021, 167 million have already been achieved in one semester, only in the fight against social fraud. This would mean that the amounts entered in the budget table are a gross understatement and that the fight against social fraud is an incredible success. I would accept that, but you cannot justify it by referring to other revenues on other lines. Specifically for the 400 million entered in the action plan for 2022, what will your powers be the share of the proceeds of the fight against social fraud?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u164	I think I've answered in part, Mr. Anseew. We have set collective objectives in the fight against social fraud and tax fraud. It is indeed an important plan of action. I repeat, the objectives set for the year 2021 have almost been fully achieved, just with the fight against social fraud. I therefore hope that this important and high-quality work carried out by the field inspection services will once again achieve the returns foreseen in Budget 2022 and in subsequent years. I repeat, we have decided to hire 50 additional inspectors within the framework of the social inspection services in the broad sense, so that we can achieve the returns that have been included in the budget table.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u165	Minister, it is not one of your shifts to reply in this way. It's not correct, and you know it. For next year, 400 million were registered as revenue from the action plan against tax and social fraud. A further 25 million has been registered specifically in relation to the RVA. In addition, 110 million were registered from additional checks on the improper use of corona aid by the self-employed, employers and employees. My questions are not about the 110 million or the 25 million. I want to know what's in that 400 million euros. However, you do not answer that question. You throw everything in a pile, which is rhetorically convenient, but the table is very clear. I am not asking about the EUR 110 million from the monitoring of the use of the corona aid, nor am I asking about the EUR 25 million registered for the RVA. I'm asking for the amount of 400 million. So you cannot talk about corona support in your answer to that question. I naturally appreciate the work of the inspectors and inspectors on the ground who worked during the corona period in extremely difficult circumstances. At some point they were not even allowed to work, because no controls were allowed to be carried out in March and April 2020. These inspectors have not been under the market, because they have had to see that there was a great deal of abuse of the corona aid. However, that is not what my question is about. My question refers to everything that does not relate to the RVA or to the EUR 100 million from the corona aid, i.e. to the EUR 400 million.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u166	I think I've answered that, mijnheer Anseeuw. As regards the fight against social and tax fraud, the action plan was drawn up in consultation and collaboration with my excellent colleague Vincent Van Peteghem. So, as you know, in 2021, this plan provided for €200 million in return. As I mentioned earlier, just for social fraud, we obtained a return on the first half of 2021 of EUR 167 million in this context. In the framework of the action plan, for the EUR 110 million entered in 2022, it is first and foremost the fight against fraud in the use of corona aids: 50 new inspectors who, in a second stage, will be reoriented traditionally to the usual work of the different inspection services. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u167	Mr Anseuw, it is at least six or seven times that you have asked to speak. Last time, please.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u168	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you are a very wealthy man, because you count the revenue from the fight against the abuse of corona aid twice when I hear your explanation. That is not true, and you know this very well. Be honest and say that today you have no answer to my question as to which part of the EUR 400 million will come from the fight against social fraud. That's an honest answer. Moreover, it is much more honourable than counting the same income twice.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u169	Ladies and gentlemen, it has been four hours and it may seem like a ping-pong game, but this debate is really about the essence. For me personally, the red line in the debate is credibility. The government is asking for confidence, but the question is whether it is worthy of that trust. Is what you're saying correct? Can we assume it's correct? Minister, you are making an argument here as if it is very simple and you are solving the budgetary challenge of almost EUR 200 million for this year with your own measures alone. However, the Monitoring Committee said only a few weeks ago on the issues of tax and social fraud that the information was still not available. So even the Monitoring Committee doesn't know, but you seem to know. Something is not right: either all of your top officials are unable to come to the simple reasoning that you are making here, or something is not quite right in the reasoning. It's about the essence. That is why we are holding thematic debates. In this way, we can go into the depths and check that what is proposed is correct. After all, you are asking us to trust you. In any case, the top officials in the Monitoring Committee do not trust it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u170	Mr Loones, I just want to say that there is also information coming after the work of the Monitoring Committee. These are things that happen regularly. I'll point out two elements. The first is the action plan to combat tax fraud and social fraud, which has been adopted by the government and implemented, and it reports significant returns. It must of course rise in power with specific actions. We have had the opportunity to discuss this on a regular basis in committee. Actions must be targeted across a range of sectors, with control campaigns in a range of areas. I am thinking in particular of the question of logistics (transport and delivery of packages). This is one of the important axes of the action plan. You know that this action plan provides for annual monitoring campaigns, in particular in connection with the European authorities and the various inspection services at European level. This action plan has so far produced returns as envisaged, and this plan will grow in power. Second item on line 9, "Effectiveness and proper allocation of social security". This is an element that concerns fraud in corona support measures. I mentioned the returns that are expected this year. In a second phase, the various inspectors who will be engaged in this framework will be redirected to other inspection measures that are not necessarily those found in the action plan. There will be additional inspectors, with specific tasks on the one hand, as part of the action plan to combat social fraud and tax fraud, and other inspectors, whose performance is known. I don't have the numbers here, but I can give them to you. We know the returns, inspector not inspector, or rather the category of inspectors by category of inspectors. You'll have these numbers, I'll give them to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u171	I imagine that this concludes Minister Dermagne's powers and that we can move on to Minister Gilkinet's powers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u172	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have one year of purple-green rail policy on it. Anyone who looks back on this must note that this has not gone down a cliff. You've done it a little bit sometimes, Minister. You had done it on several occasions, with those partners or individuals who should be your closest friends in order to achieve your railway policy objectives, better passenger services, the implementation of the modal shift, etc. It is in itself an achievement that in the last year you have been in three public clashes with the SNCB CEO: on the counters, on the window rule and on the coastal trains. Unfortunately, that is an achievement that has not been to the advantage of neither travellers nor taxpayers. You had to drown with the pubic red on the cheeks. You are not only Minister of Rail but also Minister of Derailment. In this budgetary exercise, you will receive an additional budget of EUR 250 million from the government, and I think you will be with the lucky ones. Let's be honest. When we look at the government, there are a lot of fellow minister of yours who have to make harder choices. The EUR 250 million seems to be a lot of money, but we also know, of course, that this is relatively relative in the world of railways. If we look at the wish lists of SNCB, of Infrabel, of the Regions, of industry, of freighters, etc., we know that the needs here are much greater than the budgets. A year of new ministry means a year of voluntarism. No one doubts your good will but there are also the beautiful words of Willem Elsschot 'between word and deed, laws stand in the way and practical objections'. While you have great dreams, one of them more affordable than the other, there are two large mastodons before you, two large public enterprises with a waterhead of internal services, to the middle framework without any administrative contours but billions of euros of debt wells. Maybe it's a good thing that they're there because if you were allowed to choose about spending all the budgets, it might have been mopping with the tap open. You have just explained in the general discussion that a euro for the train, coming down to 3 euros, has an effect on society. If, however, these additional funds are spent on the green balloons, I am thinking of the free rail pass of EUR 110 million that we have seen over the past year, I have some doubts about this return on investment. Those balloons would only deepen the financial craters. The reality is that you have each other in a hold. You cannot conduct a policy without the railway companies. The railway companies can't go anywhere without your financial fiat. The target date you set at the start of your ministerial position for the conclusion of management contracts has also been postponed. It is now somewhere in the middle of this legislature, especially at the end of next year. There is no long-term plan for implementing the fourth railway package. That's all there's gonna be. It's easy to spend money, but it's a lot harder to reform. The most difficult reforms are being passed on to the next governments. The smiling third, those are the unions, who wrongly think that time is in their favor. Meanwhile, travellers and taxpayers pay the bill and the bill. Mr Minister, I would like to ask you a few questions about the financial contours. A first question concerns the amount of additional investment in rail. I have just spoken of an additional 250 million, but you yourself have created confusion. The budget tables say 250 million, but at your press conference yesterday you threw it at one pile of European funds, so that you got to EUR 615 million. In the general discussion yesterday afternoon, this figure had already been increased to an additional 1.5 billion for the railways. Apparently the pace is high: every half day half a billion more.. Maybe we're already up to 2 billion extra for the railways. According to my calculations, we have 250 million from the federal cash, 365 million from the European cash, taking into account subsequent corrections. If we put those amounts together, we'll get 615 million. Then where does the remaining EUR 885 million come from, Minister? Last year we discussed the budget in detail in our committee. At that time there was no EUR 885 million extra for the railways. A few hundred million were earmarked for Infrabel's investment appropriations, but we are not getting at all an amount of 1.5 billion. I would like you to clarify this. You may have only counted the green posts and not the red numbers. Maybe you forgot to pay off your savings. In any case, you are demonstrating a great deal of budgetary creativity. Can you clarify the amount? My second question concerns the timing of spending that amount. According to the budgetary tables, this amount of extra 250 million is invested in 2024. It is possible that this amount will be redistributed at the end of the year for the next three financial years. Is that interpretation correct? If yes, it means that you will be able to spend one fifth of that additional amount in 2022. Next year's figure would be EUR 50 million, which sounds less impressive than EUR 1.5 billion. Could you confirm that? If we divide the EUR 50 million between the three planned railway investment posts, we will be looking at an additional budget of around EUR 5.5 million next year in order to improve the accessibility of infrastructure. On top of that, how you want to realize your other dreams about supply-driven rail traffic and finance a train every ten minutes in each station is just the question. Speaking of accessibility, you have already had to adjust the number of stations to be made more accessible by 2025 according to the government agreement. All of a sudden, it was 20 less stations. Now that you have an additional 27 million to improve accessibility, it seems logical to me that we should re-direct that number in the other direction. So that is my next question: is this money actually going to be earmarked for the reception infrastructure in the stations, for which you had previously deleted the project? There is also the key for additional investment. You had, I understand, asked more of your colleagues in the government. You have been able to draw less out of the budget than what was on your wish list. How will you ensure that, when the 250 million is distributed, the Community 60/40 key is maintained, given that 42 million has already been earmarked for the French-speaking part of the country, particularly for the Brussels-Luxembourg line? How will you match the order of priorities to that key? When it comes to freight transport, I often hear you talk about the port of Antwerp. What part of the 181 million for freight will you invest in Flanders? So far, my comments on finance. I would like to return to an issue that was already raised in the general discussion, namely the Brussels-Amsterdam link. Mr Francken had raised the question of the future of this line with one of the group leaders. We are getting signals from the field that that offer would be corrected and that in particular the stop at Zaventem airport would be cancelled. We did not get a clear answer yesterday. I hope, Minister, that you will be able to do so by now. Is that a rumor, or can you confirm, on the contrary, that that railway is not being hit? I would like to end on a positive note, Minister. I am glad that you have finally discovered the value of private entrepreneurship on the railways, made possible by liberalisation. The night trains, a wonderful initiative, are almost all private initiatives. Your party Ecolo was expressly opposed to this for a long time. Now you are a great fan of it. More than that, you even want to subsidise the night train. As much as I, as an N-VA, am a fan of the planned liberalisation of the railways, perhaps I would not go as far as you, Mr Minister, to come up with a special liberalisation subsidy. That's probably too much of the good. Anyway, we definitely want to give that a chance. I look forward to the realization of those plans. I have a few more questions about that. First of all, how do you define a night train? How do you distinguish? If a private company wishes to establish a liberalised rail link here during the day, will you support it with your liberalisation subsidy? Why would you make a distinction? How can you make that happen in the light of competition law, for example? Suppose a train from a foreign railway company leaves at night in a foreign station and arrives here during the day. How can you frame such a legal framework? Secondly, does this aid apply to night trains only to international passenger transport or also to domestic passenger transport? Does it also cover night trains that are laid in on our territory, which are set up in the system of open access, for example? Thirdly, you mentioned possible provision of rolling stock to private railway companies. I think that's a very interesting way of thinking. Do I understand correctly, Minister, that SNCB, a public undertaking, will be asked to lend its equipment to private railway undertakings on a liberalised rail network for 99% of the public? If so, have you already aligned this with the SNCB itself? Is the railway company prepared to lend its equipment to potential new commercial competitors on the rail network? Fourthly, you were actually talking about a public service contract for the night trains. I would also like to congratulate you on that. This is actually a more drastic step towards liberalisation, even privatisation of the railways. So you will not only support private entrepreneurship, you will not only award a grant to it, but you will also be contracting parts of the public service in a contract. From the liberalisation of public service at night to the liberalisation of public service during the day, it is actually only a small step. Then we're almost there. Hallelujah! Minister, I wish you congratulations on your moving insight into the night trains. In just a year you have been converted from ethatic to more liberal than the liberals. You are at that point as right as the N-VA today. I can only regret that it applies only to one point of the night trains and not to rail services for a train supply which is currently absent, unfortunately. I can only hope that you will gain the same insights for the rest of your rail policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u173	Mr Roggeman, you have put a whole freight train to Minister Gilkinet. I honestly believe that at this hour and in view of the context of the debate, it is a little excessive to expect that 17 specific questions from you will now come up with concrete answers. I have a fundamental political question for you. Do you agree with me that the government is making a fundamental change in rail policy compared to recent years? The previous government saw public transport as a major saving. The previous government, despite its ideological coherence in this area, has not prepared the liberalisation, of which you are a great advocate. I am quite new in Parliament and you have been a Member of Parliament for longer than I am, but I remember Mrs Dutordoir's statement here that nothing was prepared for liberalisation, which you so advocate. Minister Gilkinet must, in a manner of speaking, start from a white sheet. Thirdly, do you agree with me that the previous government has not even managed to conclude a management contract with our country's main public undertaking? While it's about a company that you think is getting too much government money, the then majority, of which you were a member, didn't even manage to agree on what was actually expected of that company. On the other hand, the current coalition says that we will invest in the railways again. We have EUR 365 million in European funds and 250 million has now been agreed. We have chosen to use SNCB as a unique operator for public services for another ten years, a clear political choice. We are currently preparing a new management contract for the 21st century, a contract in which the traveller is central. In other words, we believe in rail as a lever, firstly to make our mobility more sustainable, to give as many citizens as possible in our country an accessible, affordable, smooth and safe alternative. The 250 million is intended, among other things, to increase the availability and accessibility of the stations. Secondly, we also believe in rail as a lever for achieving our climate objectives. This is why a massive investment in rail freight transport is taking place. That is a clear change from the previous legislature. I have two questions for you, not 17. Do you acknowledge that this is a turnaround and can you agree with it? I have heard you ask exactly how Minister Gilkinet will implement this. However, I would like to hear from you what fundamental choices you are making about the future of the railways in our country. In your long list, you have not given any insight into this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u174	Mr Vandenbroucke, for the record, I have counted eight questions in your speech, and I have kept them well in mind. I think I can put your questions together in two groups. A group of questions is about the evaluation of the previous government. For the sake of clarity, I have been elected on exactly the same date as you, so I am no longer a Member of Parliament than you, and I am certainly not responsible for what MR ministers in the previous government did or did not do. My party was part of the government in the previous legislature and my party has long insisted on the need for reforms in rail policy, even more so than your party did in the previous legislature. You ask me if I see a change in rail policy, but I see, above all, that necessary reforms are not in place. You're pointing out there's more money being spent. Digging financial wells, borrowing and spending money, that's the easy side of the matter, anyone can do that. However, there is a need for fundamental reform. Rail policy needs to be modernised. The European directives, some of which have been waiting for us for years, must be implemented. That is a very different pair of sleeves, but I do not see any change in them here today, to my regret.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u175	I understand from your answer that investment in rail is not forward-looking for you. A study carried out by Deloitte shows that each euro invested is worth three euros. We are convinced that every euro we invest, both in passenger transport and freight transport, will provide a social return for the sustainability and accessibility of public transport for all Belgians and for achieving a climate objective. You do not agree that investment in the railways is necessary in order to achieve these two objectives.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u176	Mr Vandenbroucke, you put words in my mouth. For the sake of clarity, I think there are opportunities there, but then the key question is how the money will be spent, how it will be invested. I have also read Deloitte's study to which you refer. The main conclusion is that the funds must be invested in a demand-driven supply of trains. There is no point in increasing the offer of driving more empty trains. This is not a return for society, but on the contrary only creates debt wells. If it were that easy, there would be no historical rail debt to SNCB today. If it were so easy, all the financial problems would have been solved for years and SNCB would be profiting us instead of having to match each year from the state treasury. Is there an opportunity when we support companies? Absolutely. Then it must be a demand-driven supply and train that effectively meet a transport demand, and then the money should not go to foils, like the hundreds of millions of free Rail passes, which still remain in the drawer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u177	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am sure everyone hopes that I will start by saying that I will be brief, but I must disappoint you. My speech will take at least 20 minutes. Minister, about a year ago, when the Vivaldi government was installed in the formation note prepared jointly by Prime Minister Alexander De Croo and Paul Magnette, we were able to read a number of measures relating to the railways. New rolling stock would be purchased and the modernisation, maintenance, accessibility and multi-mobility of the stations, the accessibility of trains and platforms, each station with more than 5,000 passengers per day would be accessible by 2024, and the renewal and maintenance of rail infrastructure and the capacity of passenger transport would be increased. Some time later, you explained your policy plans, in which you also promised a lot, including rail links, Wifi on the train, electrification, digitisation, better maintenance, more support for passenger and freight transport, flexible rates and above all many more trains. In each station two trains per hour, in the morning, in the afternoon and in the evening and in the weekends more trains, international connections, night trains, it could not be on. In my presentation to the committee, when I spoke of your promises, I referred to your walhalla of the railroad. That's what we were promised. As a critical opposition party, we asked ourselves about the affordability of all these plans. We weren't the only ones in there. There's a song that goes like this: who's gonna pay for it, who's got so much money? I'm guessing this isn't this government. Plans and ambitions that are never realized, for example due to a lack of money, remain empty promises and dreams. The empty state treasury will go towards the EUR 20 billion in 2022. However, this government is planning to invest around EUR 1 billion by 2024. Then I must congratulate you, Minister, because, if I am correct, you would have raised EUR 250 million extra for the railways. This means that you have negotiated well in the government, but that should not be exaggerated when I see what toothless, weak Flemish parties you have had in the negotiations against you. So we are talking about EUR 250 million extra for rail, for the EUR 365 million you were promised earlier. I have the same question as Mr Roggeman. What is the total budget available to you? Above all, it makes me curious what you're going to do with all that money. After all, you have promised everyone everything. Will you be able to live up to all these promises with the available financial resources? Allow me to doubt that very strongly. Well, I'm still kind of expressing myself. With this extra budget of EUR 250 million, we will be doing a wonderful job financially, because you claim that every euro invested in the railways will pay three euros. I want to pierce that illusion anyway. I have a limited study from Deloitte. If we look at the whole track - HR Rail, staff and SNCB.................................................................................................................................................................................... In any case, there are annual operating deficits with SNCB. In 2020, SNCB's financial debt amounted to over EUR 2 billion. What did we see last year? We saw a minister who continued to implement an already decided policy on the M7 trains. It is true that they are now being delivered with a considerable delay. At first 450 couples were bought for 1.3 billion euros. Afterwards, 200 trains were bought for 450 million euros. They're finally coming in slow and now being deployed on the net. With that extra 250 million euros you can buy about 100 trains. I wonder, then, whether the financial resources will suffice to realize your great plan, more trains, two trains per hour, Minister. What is needed in terms of capacity, equipment and above all, what is needed financially for these plans? I doubt whether that is feasible, especially when I hear Mrs Maes, Head of Capacity Management at Infrabel, say at a hearing that these plans will be incredibly demanding for Infrabel in technical and financial terms. However, a few things have been realized. Under the influence of the corona crisis and the resulting increase in homework, a different situation has arisen because there is less commuting. As a result, a flexible tariff formula has been developed. A pilot project is currently under way, which still needs to be evaluated and, as a function of this evaluation, extended and extended. In addition, a SNCB app has been developed to allow travellers to check in real time the capacity utilisation of their train. Admittedly, real-time doesn't always work fantastic, but there's an app, I'll give you that. Mr Minister, at the beginning of my speech I asked the question about keeping your promises. Will you be able to steer the policy in the direction you and the government desire? When I look at the way in which the CEO of SNCB, Mrs Dutortoir, has publicly and happily exposed you with the buttocks when deciding to close the counters in 44 stations, I do not really know who is now waving the stick in rail policy. Is it the government which, through the Minister, determines the policy after which the CEO of the public sector implements it, or does the CEO itself set out the lines of the policy? Then we had the additional riot around the window rule. A similar fate had recently been to you with the CEO of Infrabel, Mr Gilson, who came to announce that he would close five railway lines, which is completely contrary to the policy you stand for. So I doubt whether you will succeed if you have to work with those two people, because after one year of policy things are going to be so difficult and the incidents pile up. Ladies and gentlemen, I am kicking in an open door when I say that the needs of the railways are very high. Mr Vandenbroucke mentioned part of it: the years of savings made by successive governments and the lack of a management contract have left us all with obsolete infrastructure and worn-out equipment. So I doubt whether the M7 trains are going to solve the problem completely, especially in view of all the plans, lack of service and punctuality figures that certainly can and must be improved. There are a few things I would like to talk about in detail. The very first thing I want to talk about is that it will not surprise you, Minister. I have often spoken to you about it. The safety of passengers and staff at the stations, on the platforms and on trains. For some time now, we have been faced with rising crime rates, with aggression, both physically and verbally, and also with side phenomena such as black riding and vandalism. Although one would expect a firm response to this and a policy response to it, it remains a bit out of place and I even see that expenditure within SNCB to the Securail security service has fallen. They amount to just over 3% of total expenditure, which is quite low. The number of full-time equivalents at Securail has fallen from 559 in 2019 to 514 in April of this year, despite some recruitments. Finally, of course, this also translates into a reduction in the number of train journeys accompanied. It is therefore very clear to the Flemish interest that top priority must be given to safety in rail transport. That makes perfect sense. After all, you want to make a great deal of efforts to promote public transport. You can do whatever you want. You can offer perfect Wi-Fi connections; you can offer incredible punctuality and service; you can hang gold curtains on the trains for me. When the traveler does not feel safe on the train, he does not come. So security is the absolute priority not to let all the other things you do be for nothing. Unfortunately, Minister, I do not hear a lot of commitment in this area. That is why I hope that you will surprise me, with the budgets you have and that you will inform me in a committee that you have great news, that you have drawn up a security plan with a firm and firm approach to the problem of violence on the track, that you have a firm and good plan, that you have backed up with the necessary resources that you have received from the pot and that you will address the problem. I hope you can surprise me in this respect and that such a policy will also take shape in the management agreement to be concluded, with concrete measurable objectives and requirements, which are also sanctionable. I would like to make a brief comment on the management agreement. I have already asked several times, together with a number of other members in committee, before the management agreement is concluded effectively, to pass that agreement in committee. I would like to call again for this. I would ask you to take an example from your good colleague, Mrs De Sutter, who does so for the management agreement with post office. It has announced and does so. Before concluding the agreement effectively, it will first come to the committee to discuss the agreement. I would ask you to follow that example and do the same for the management agreements that you will conclude. As a second subject after safety, I would like to talk briefly about accessibility. It is also a point that is very dear to us, namely accessibility in the stations, on the platforms and on the trains. Currently there are 554 stations. Of these, about 78 are fully equipped for persons with reduced mobility. SNCB now invests approximately EUR 124 million per year in the stations. It expressed the ambition to double the number of fully accessible stations by the end of 2024, thus bringing that number to 150 stations. It goes without saying that this will require a heavy financial effort. It will therefore also have to come from the resources that have now been obtained. When I look at the increase in the platforms, I notice that there are a total of about 1,220 in this country. In any case, according to fairly recent figures, there are currently about 184 stations where the platforms have been raised to 76 cm. That's about a third. SNCB has also expressed the ambition to double that number by 2030. This means that it will have to increase the platforms around 23 stations a year. This, too, requires a considerable amount of investment that will have to be coughed up in order to achieve that ambition. Allow me to comment on the following. When we count all the extra trains, the rolling stock, the safety and accessibility of stations, I dare to doubt whether all this will be achieved. There are a few other topics, which I will go over briefly. One of these topics is the liberalisation of passenger transport by rail. Nothing has ever been prepared for that in the past. It has now been conveniently advanced by assigning the unique operatorship to SNCB for a period of ten years. However, in ten years' time there will be a new moment, which will still have to be prepared and for which something will have to be done. I refer to the information note, in which there was still some kind of pilot project, in which a private partner would be sought through tender to try out and map regional issues. What about when, where and how? Will the funds available at present be used to finance this? A final important point is the additional links. Of course, we are all in favour of additional links and it is good that the transport supply is increasing by 4.7 %, but there are of course some gaps. As a Limburger, I will be chauvinistic again this time without wanting to reduce other regions and once again argue for international cross-border connections on the eastern side to the Netherlands. I mean specifically Hamont-Weert, which I regularly question you about, but also the line 20 Hasselt-Maastricht. Despite the fact that everyone is looking away from it in the Flemish Parliament, that project is actually being mismastered and it has evolved from a fast tram to a snail bus, where the best and cheapest possibilities for good access to the Netherlands, from station to station, and a further connection to the tri-country train are in a broader context. Hopefully, resources and, above all, attention can be given to this. I have listed a few needs, but there are many more policy issues that I will not explain now. I am talking, for example, about SNCB's payment parking policy, where it means that the user will be able to pay the Fleming service again, or the choice made to invest, for example, in 50,000 additional bicycle parkings at the stations. There's 102,000 now, so there's about half of it coming up. These are policy choices that are being made, and I call them ecological choices, but the question is whether this is the top priority, especially in the light of what I have just explained. The last discussion, which will certainly have to be held, also referred to just now, concerns the viability of the night trains. That story is obviously not as obvious as some people keep saying here. These are all choices that are made, but they do have financial consequences. They are all material for discussion. I am therefore looking forward to more detailed discussions in committee at a later date and in particular to the content of the new management agreement to be concluded. After all, everyone agrees that cooking costs money. We are therefore curious about the choices you will make. Hopefully you will put the right emphasis on safety, service, reliability, comfort and punctuality for the traveller. Those choices should also put the traveller and the staff at the centre and aim at rewarding good behavior rather than punishing or penalising behavior that the vivaldi government considers undesirable. For example, after a whole series of bullying measures taken in the past against drivers, in your table, the professional diesel driver is being attacked with the restriction of support measures in this area. However, motorists have been the state's milk cow for many years and generate billions of revenue annually. It is often about hard-working citizens who are already under enormous strain and are now being driven towards an expensive electric car and are then allowed to stand on a faulty infrastructure in traffic, are threatened with charging, getting LEZ fines to the ears and being banned from low-speed city centres. However, that is not the end of the matter. Finally, I come to the flight tax, which was already the subject of this morning. You have the flight tax conveniently called the boarding tax......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I call it almost a bullying measure for people who have difficulty getting their energy bill and high tax bill paid and who have saved very hard to go on vacation once a year. Those people get caught on the plane again by this government, which is really foreign to the world and apparently has no idea how hard some people have to work to get on holiday. The figures don't seem right to me either. Maybe that can come back later. I wonder why the border has just been drawn at 500 kilometers. The planned revenue is 30 million, 40 million and 40 million. What is the passenger actually going to have to pay more? What will the impact be for him? Finally, I would like to make the following comment. I have warned you about this before. I find it very sad for the aviation sector, where many jobs have already been lost as a result of the corona crisis. The aviation sector is still in a very difficult situation and is now being put to the throat again. The bottomline is clear, hardworking Flemings have to pay, pay, pay to live up to the climate ambitions of this left-wing and, above all, French-speaking government. It is a green ideology that the Flemings are being pushed down the throat with an admonishing finger. They are entitled to pay from a government that has never been elected in Flanders. The Flemish Interest does not support this Vivaldi government with a minority on the Flemish side. So this isn't our government either.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u178	Minister, 250 million is an eighth of the savings on railways by the Swedish Government. Mr Vandenbroucke criticises the previous government and, of course, he is absolutely right. However, we do not think that this is an ambitious plan, since it is only an eighth of the savings that have already been made. In our view, 250 million is far too little if we really want to make a switch to the use of the train, for the environment and for the people. That's not enough. If we know that the Bergen station alone costs 300 million and that the construction of 1 kilometre of rail costs about 15 million, then of course the 250 million is not much money. Mr President, I would like to comment on a number of points. 180 million is foreseen for the transport of goods. We are in favour of strengthening the transport of goods and we have tabled a resolution on this. You have been to Antwerp and Zeebrugge, at the request of VBO and VOKA. We see that this money will go to privatised goods companies, which have very often received subsidies. They will now receive subsidies again, when we have seen for years that this does not work. Freight transport has deteriorated since privatisation and has not improved. The conclusion now is that private companies must be further subsidised. Why is there no investment in public enterprises? What conditions will be imposed on these companies? Are you going to impose conditions on companies like Lineas with regard to employment and working and wage conditions? That is what we want to know. Together with Green, we have tabled a resolution on Schaarbeek-Vorming. I don't read anything about that. What about that? This is a very important place to avoid freight transport for the Brussels region of Brussels itself as much as possible. We have already tabled a resolution on this matter. And I've intervened on that several times. Where are we on that line and that traffic in Schaerbeek-Vorming? Do you really listen to the travelers? How many platforms can you equate to 27 million? The previous speakers also mentioned this. Will the budget be sufficient to improve accessibility, as it is now very bad? We are one of the worst pupils in Europe in terms of accessibility. I will not forget the people's testimonies at our committee hearing. For people with disabilities, it's trouble getting on a train. It is a catastrophe for wheelchair users, for example, to travel by train. We are at only 5 % full accessibility. That's very little. How far did you get with the $27 million to seriously improve accessibility? Why did you close those 44 counters? There has not been much discussion about this, while a large proportion of the population was in favour of maintaining these points of contact. However, you could have used them in terms of accessibility. You could have figured out how these counters and stations could be used for different purposes, including to improve people's accessibility. Few people have talked about the staff here. The Social Inspectorate has turned a blind eye to SNCB because the staff cannot take their rest days. The management of SNCB proposes to pay for those rest days. People who have worked their asses off during the entire corona crisis are now getting paid for rest days, i.e. worked holidays and Sundays. An employee states: "If your employer cannot give you weekends because of poor management and years of systematic understaffing and wants to pay out suddenly, how many are those days with friends, family, children and missed memories worth? My private life is not for sale." People are very angry about that. This has to do with the underfinancing of SNCB and Infrabel. We have already had a debate in committee on the financing of Infrabel during a topical debate. Infrabel must save 94 million by 2024. How are you going to get these extra trains to run, knowing that 300 rail workers are needed for one train, while 100 jobs disappear every month and Infrabel is looking for at least 700 people because there are too few staff? Productivity is increasing day after day and the workload cannot be sustained. Today I received a message about the incredible workload of the staff. The person in question says, "I'm sick of it." There's also a security problem. Securail, which ensures safety on trains, has too few people. People can't do it anymore. They're dealing with aggression and there's far too few staff. What are you going to do about SNCB's and Infrabel's budget, to make sure that the many employees who have worked incredibly hard during the corona crisis are appreciated in their job and to provide enough resources and people to do their job properly?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u179	Madam President, I do not understand whether we have too much or too little ambition for the trail according to the various speakers. I want to make it clear that our government has a lot of ambition for the trail. That is also apparent from the coalition agreement. The track must be the backbone of future mobility. It is a pillar for our economy, a solution to congestion on our roads and a solution to road safety. We have a clear strategy to achieve this goal. We are working on a vision text, to determine what the track will be in 2040 and what goals we want to achieve. We effectively want a better service for travellers. We are also working on new management contracts. As a new minister, I have been given a difficult legacy, with an old management contract that dates back to 2008 and is now still in place for the railways. We also want to invest, which is clearly stated in the coalition agreement. We are doing so with several hundred million more which will be well invested to make a difference to the accessibility and robustness of our rail system, as well as to more rail freight. This is very important, because transport is the source of 30% of greenhouse emissions in Belgium. So we face huge challenges. Doing nothing is no longer an option. We want to work on an accessible, quality, efficient and environmentally friendly public service. Infrabel and SNCB have started to support this and they will do more. Mr Roggeman, you ask me if I can add up the funds. The additional resources that SNCB and Infrabel have received since I was Minister are as follows. With the Boost plan for rail, which was put in place as soon as I took office, we decided to devote €365 million of European resources to the plan for reviving and resiliency to rail. These are investments in the accessibility of our stations, the digitalization of flow management, the infrastructure that has been missing a lot in the past. I have a legacy that's not obvious. In the context of the reboot and transition plan - the result of the budgetary conclave we are debating today - we have indeed decided to add, to this sum of EUR 365 million, EUR 250 million, an investment of a quarter of a billion made by the government, in accordance with our agreement, also to continue to pursue this plan Boost and to develop the rail, as I explained earlier, with three directions in relation to these investments: to speed up the work for the accessibility of our stations, to strengthen our international connections, with a priority for the Brussels-Luxembourg line which connects two capitals and which is a strategic line to the European plan for Belgium and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, and above all, to invest in freight; says om het volume goederen dat door het spor vervoerd zal zijn tegen 2030 te verdubbelen. These investments will indeed be directed to the places where they are most useful, with a leverage effect to support employment in our country. In addition to these new means of investment, EUR 631 million, Mr Roggeman, is a series of aid that has been given to our companies. That is also important for Mrs Vindevoghel. The covid crisis was very difficult for many people and companies, but also for our railway companies. The passengers stopped taking the train. We wanted to maintain the tool and service. The trains continued to run thanks to the commitment of the workers, the railway workers. Mrs. Vindevoghel, you mentioned them and you're right. They are the soul of our business. But revenue losses were very significant for SNCB and Infrabel. They have been systematically compensated by the government. An additional €777 million has been invested in our railway company in order to maintain the activity and to pass this difficult course of the covid crisis, hence the fact that we came to the above figures. What matters is the future. You asked me about investments in station accessibility. The commitments made by this Parliament are clear. We must achieve maximum accessibility (100%). It won't happen in a day. I inherit stations that are not all well equipped, but we are working hard on them. Currently there are 75 fully autonomous stations in our country. My goal is to target 150 such stations by 2025 and 250 by 2030. The new resources obtained from the budgetary conclave will be partly used to this end. Concrete measures must be taken and the necessary investment resources must be made available. Since I arrived, I have paid a great deal of attention to this issue, because I want to speed up the improvement of the situation for all travellers. This is also the case with the second phase of ordering the double-deck trains M7, which were validated in December, including low-floor carriages for people with disabilities. That's for accessibility! The other very important element is therefore freight. The port of Antwerp, the port of Ghent, the port of Zeebruges, businesses in Wallonia, quarries, cement makers, which are now ready to invest in our country, to bring their raw materials by rail and to export finished products throughout Europe by rail. This is the case for Audi in Forest, from Volvo to Ghent. A freight train prevents our roads from being crowded with 50 trucks. And with targeted investments... I also mention a new trieerheuvel in the port of Antwerp, a new track in the port of Ghent, a new link in the context of the merger of the ports of Ghent and Terneuzen and a link to the North Sea. Many beautiful projects are ready, but they need resources. Mr Roggeman, we have planned budget allocations for 2022, 2023 and 2024 which will enable these investments to be undertaken and which will already be improved in the course of this Parliament, which will make it easier to build freight trains and to transport cars built in Belgium more easily throughout Europe. We already did it in the first year. As a reminder, the start of the Plan Boost was to repair a bridge located in Cureghem, on line 28, which is essential to enable Audi to export electric cars built by Belgian workers. In this respect, the key will be effectively respected, as always in Belgium. There are developments, fortunately, but a little more flexible. Sometimes it is over two years that we check that this distribution key is respected to avoid starting work and having to stop it until the beginning of the following year, which is not a good way to do it. Indeed, while work is being done on the track, there are train slowdowns, trains that can no longer pass. I think we need to act intelligently, flexibly, without apothecary balance, without suspicion of railway undertakings. We are also innovating with this budget. A first envelope to support the development of night trains is put on the table. I doubt you, Mr Roggeman: these are not always private initiatives, even if this is the situation that I inherit. It's a sector that was liberalized before me and by others other than me. Today, the main player in night trains is the Austrian public railway company, öBB, and we can congratulate it. It has re-launched night trains to the whole of Europe, including a Vienna-Brussels train which currently arrives three a week in Brussels and departs in the other direction. The aim of öBB is to have one train a day. Other companies, public or private, want to be able to connect Brussels. Our role is to facilitate this ambition. Brussels is a natural hub as the capital of Europe. It attracts many European travellers. More and more people want to take the train rather than other more polluting means of transport such as the car or the plane. With this first envelope, which can be considered symbolic, but which will enable the pump to be started, we can, for example, exempt companies that link Brussels to other cities by night train from travel costs, or help them in other ways that remain to be determined. We must be creative in the light of a European framework that must also evolve. I am a representative of Belgium at the European Transport Council. Regularly, along with other colleagues in Luxembourg, Austria, Ireland and Denmark, I plead for greater flexibility on the part of the European Commission as regards the aid that States can provide to rail transport and for equal competition with other, much more polluting, means of transport. Fortunately, and I welcome this, our government has made important commitments that we must honour. I say it in the presence of the Minister of Climate. We need to reduce our CO2 emissions by 55%. As transport accounts for 30 per cent of CO2 emissions in our country, this will require a strengthening of our internal and also international network. This is what I am working on, in line with the government agreement, with Infrabel and SNCB, with a desire for efficiency, for the transformation of societies, and with a legacy that is not always simple. I think that the budget that has been decided here on investments by the government is a very clear signal of the will to move forward in this direction. I hope that makes you happy. Mr Roggeman, I sometimes feel that you are disappointed that we are investing in the train, that this government believes in the train and that it wants to change things. No doubt you live in another era or in another dimension than us. Clearly, the train is the future, it's less pollution and more safety. The train is nice, it's a support for our economy. The government's commitment is very clear and I work every day to make it a reality.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u180	Thank you for your answers, Minister. I can assure you that I live in the same world as you. It is to be said in a world in which invoices have to be paid, in which promises have to be fulfilled and in which the bill has to be true. That is the world in which I like to live, Minister. A lot of things have been discussed by colleagues. The hour is well advanced and I shall therefore confine myself to one point, in particular the amount of aid. I am glad that you yourself indicated that it is not about an increase of EUR 1.5 billion, as was announced here yesterday with a lot of bravado. It is indeed about EUR 250 million, and you also refer to the EUR 365 million European funds in the margin. I would like to point out that this famous pot from the Recovery and Resilience Facility, which is European resources, has already been signaled by the European Commission that Belgium will get less and that it will probably also have an impact on the planned resources for the railways. That's what I'm guessing. Perhaps that is an additional question for clarification, Minister. Is the piece of the EUR 250 million that is now being provided for today not intended to dampen the loss of the EUR 365 million previously foreseen, given the reduction that is to be expected there?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u181	No decision has yet been taken by the European Commission to reduce the funds that Belgium would receive under the RRF. There is a projection that would show that Belgium would get less but there is no decision yet. The EUR 250 million that will be invested will not replace the EUR 365 million.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u182	I would like to thank the Minister for his answer, which was extensive but in which I have heard little or no new things. You confirm the figures we have mentioned, the EUR 250 million and the EUR 365 million. You have made a complete list of what you want and wish for. We have heard this in the past and have recently been able to read it again in the press. The only difference I can see is the doubling of the number of autonomously accessible stations to 150. I had heard 2024 there as ambition but apparently that turned to 2025. I do not hear you confirm, but I did not specifically ask you to come to the committee with draft management agreement in advance, before concluding it. I repeat the call for sure. It's not to argue about that, but I think this can be useful and useful. I hope you will follow the example of your good colleagues. For the rest, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u183	We can discuss the management agreement in depth in committee. I never have a problem being there and answering the many questions. So far things have not progressed sufficiently to be able to make a thorough point in committee, but I am always prepared to give a state of affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u184	Minister, with regard to the debate on the EUR 1.5 billion, it is now clear how much is involved. I had also asked about the conditions for the goods companies. These are private companies that receive subsidies. Will this be subject to conditions relating to employment and working and wage conditions? I didn't get an answer to that. I would like to stress once again the concerns of staff with regard to the shortage of resources for Infrabel and SNCB. We had a discussion in committee about the fact that Infrabel had said that five lines could no longer be used. You said that those lines would stay, but Infrabel did signal that it does not have enough resources to ensure that the trains leave. So there is a financial problem with Infrabel and I do not think you have answered it. You speak of the EUR 700 million granted because the corona crisis caused a great deal of loss. That's not an extra investment. That money was needed to keep the trains running throughout the corona crisis so that people could get to work. These resources have been used for this purpose, but today there are not enough resources for Infrabel and SNCB to ensure that there are enough staff available to work in good working conditions in order to achieve all the ambitions you set out. If you want to realize it, you need hands to do it. It is not clear to me how you will do that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u185	Mrs Vindevoghel, the reason why we gave EUR 700 million extra to Infrabel and SNCB was the covid crisis, but that was to pay the workers. In France, this has been resolved differently. In France, it was economic unemployment. We did not do that, we preserved employment, we invested in companies. I told you in committee, there will be no closure of the line, we are investing to strengthen the rail. I think you should applaud me, Mrs. Vindevoghel!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u186	The concern of the workers is that there are not enough means for the continuity of their work.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u187	As far as your question about transport companies is concerned, it is in the infrastructure that we are investing. We do not give subsidies, we invest in infrastructure so that more trains can pass tomorrow, so that more people can take the train, so that more goods are on trains rather than on trucks. This will support our economy and it will create employment in Belgium. If I were you, I'd applaud!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u188	If there is no other reaction, we can close the debate on Mr Gilkinet's powers. We are starting the debate on Mrs Khattabi's competences.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u189	Madam President, what debate are we starting now? Normally, the next debate is about Defense, isn't it, with Mrs. Dedonder?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u190	Mrs. Dedonder will be here in 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u191	I've been sitting here all night waiting for Mrs. Dedonder.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u192	She's on her way. We are waiting for Mrs Khattabi. Then Mrs. Dedonder comes. Normally, a dozen people would still be speaking.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u193	So we're moving too fast. President: We have moved faster, Mr Buysrogge. I shall then give the floor to Mr Wollants.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u194	I could not have estimated that this debate would go so extremely quickly. Mrs Khattabi, it is good to talk about the climate as well. The Prime Minister said that there was very little attention to the climate, but of course he could not estimate that we would raise a number of issues in the thematic debates. Firstly, the budgetary aspects. The budget tables now include an amount of EUR 43 million, on the basis of the old methodology for the distribution of ETS auction revenues. I understand that this has been done to the best of my ability, but that might put you in a difficult position, perhaps not. It depends on how the government looks at that. I mean, here's what I'm talking about. Funds are currently committed, but of course you have no guarantee that the agreement you have to conclude with the Regions will go in the same direction. For the same reason, there is a smaller percentage for the federal government or a larger percentage. A larger percentage is usually another problem for a budget. The question is whether that EUR 43 million is a lower limit for you? Or is the debate still in full swing and it is not possible to talk about a lower limit? This means that there is a chance that you will have to come back to this later, because then certain resources will not appear in the budget tables you did count on. My second question concerns the decision taken by the government on 8 October, proposing additional efforts to be added to the 2030 route. When I look at how that was recorded, it seems to be both a non-ETS policy and an ETS policy. It's just that it's really hard today to say what's in there and what's not. That cannot be deduced from the government's decision. There is only a roadmap for every minister, but, in addition to what has appeared in the press, no concrete means or concrete commitments have been announced. Are you therefore prepared to make the roadmaps available to Parliament in such a way that we can see how everything will proceed? After all, we must be able to judge that correctly. It is reported that there is a gradual abolition of subsidies for fossil fuels. However, allow me to see some contrast between this commitment and the forthcoming subsidies for the gas plants with the CRM mechanism. In the end, this also amounts to a subsidy for fossil fuels. Moreover, the expected additional CO2 revenues from the non-expanding of the life of the two nuclear power plants are miraculously equivalent to the additional effort the government is making until 2030. Do you see any contradiction? How do you deal with that? You're saying the CRM auction should be there. But the 25 million tonnes is then a net or a gross effort. You are making efforts in the field of non-ETS as an ETS. Will you, in other words, compensate for the 25 million tonnes of emissions generated by the gas plants in this exercise? Will you propose more than 25 million tonnes of measures, or will you not? It may then prove that your additional effort and the CRM grants are worth each other. You are taking along, as we know from the press, the doubling of offshore production, a measure already registered in the National Energy and Climate Plan with the previous government. It would therefore also be logical for you to include the measure relating to the gas plants in the calculation. In addition, the European Commission, within the framework of the Effort Sharing Regulation, is announcing a proposal for a reduction of 47% for this country. That's a very challenging figure. How many out of 25 million tonnes are covered by the Efficiency Sharing Regulation and how much under the ETS? How do you deal with that? An important aspect of policy in this area is its follow-up. In recent years federal measures have been proposed more often, but no consensus was found in the National Climate Commission on the calculation of the impact of the measures. How do you deal with that? There is a problem when we end up with measures whose target figures for the regions are not acceptable. How do you intend to follow up on this within the framework of the National Climate Committee? In the agreements to be made between the regions and the federal government, there is also specific financial responsibility. There is also a need to agree on financial responsibility if, for example, the objectives for CO2 emissions are to be met or not. In the past, this financial responsibility has always been fully transferred to the regions. The regions had to bear full financial responsibility. That seems to me to be a government that says it wants to accept its responsibility, not a perfectly logical matter. Are you prepared to bear at least part of the financial responsibility for this? That would be in line with the efforts that you yourself are putting forward, and would be the result of the responsibility that you yourself claim to have to accept. There is something to be done at the moment about the possible installation of an emissions trading system for buildings and transport. One of the press articles indicated that the federal government would use the proceeds as a kind of climate bonus for families and SMEs. However, according to the European Commission's initial estimates, such a system would increase the cost of heating by, for example, natural gas to 20%. I want to understand that the current towering gas prices were not taken into account, but in any case the question remains whether the federal government supports such a measure, as it increases the costs for our families and businesses. If you do not support this measure, you cannot, of course, hand out the climate bonus. I would like to hear your views on how you want to deal with this and what steps are being taken so that our citizens and businesses know what they can expect in terms of additional costs. Finally, have there been any discussions on this particular income? Do you have an agreement today on the distribution of that income? That automatically leads me to my last question. In the meantime, we have already approved in committee the proposal for an interparliamentary resolution. It strongly calls for an agreement on Burden Sharing before COP26, i.e. for ministers to leave for Glasgow. Can you give us a current overview? You have already indicated that it is in the hands of the Walloon Region, which is responsible for making the necessary proposals, but I cannot get the impression that you have a role to play in this. You must also play your part at the negotiating table so that the Burden Sharing exercise can take place. Can you estimate whether you can land before Glasgow, or will it be for after?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u195	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, if I may believe Minister Gilkinet, your Ecolo colleague, this is a climate government. Deputy Prime Minister De Sutter, your Green colleague, referred to this budget as the greenest budget ever. Madam Secretary, frankly, I haven't seen or heard much of you in the last few days. That is not a great surprise to me, because you know, as I do, that the climate policy of this government and the budgets allocated to it are far from sufficient. Let us begin with the climate ambition. The government prides itself on the fact that its climate ambition is based on science-based policy. The government is beating itself up with a climate target of 55% emissions reduction by 2030. That's just way too little. For a science-based policy we have to achieve 65% emission reduction. In addition, Belgium is no. 10 in the list of historical exotics in the world. So please let us accept our responsibility. That is what I have to say about international climate finance. Yesterday, the Prime Minister proudly announced an increase in international climate finance. You therefore pretend to make a correct contribution. However, this is nowhere to be found in the budgetary tables. Madam Minister, is this included in the EUR 1 billion announced investments for the next three years? Or should we look under the other cost item? Or is this simply a double announcement policy, out of the 12 million already in the budget table of the government agreement last year? Apart from that, will Belgium make its fair contribution of 500 million euros a year to international climate finance, on top of the development cooperation budget? We also have many questions about the European Green Deal and the measures contained in the Fit-for-55 package. It means that climate policy will be left even more to the whims of the market and that the major polluters can continue to pollute, while simply transferring the invoice to the citizen. Each example from the past has already shown that tackling the climate problem through the market simply does not work. Emissions from the ETS industry, for example, have been stagnating for 10 years. So we do not need more markets, we simply need binding standards so that companies are obliged to invest in transition. I also miss ambitious policies at COP26. In committee, we tabled an amendment to the interparliamentary resolution to at least establish a moratorium on the search for new sources of fossil fuels and their exploitation. The Greens voted against it. In fact, everyone voted against it. In this way I don't know what climate ambition I should expect from the greens anymore. Therefore, I fear that you will get more and more disappointed climate activists on the floor. I have not even mentioned the billions of subsidies that still go to professional diesel today. There will now be 50 million less tax reductions on professional diesel, but in fact the government simply had to do so, with the revision of the European Energy Taxation Directive. The federal government therefore has a long way to go if it wants to eliminate the remaining EUR 981 million per year in tax exemptions for professional diesel. The bigger question is when the government will work on phasing out the 12 to 15 billion euro remaining fossil subsidies. After all, I have not seen or heard much about concrete steps towards phasing out. These subsidies are in stark contrast to the investments this government wants to make in sustainability, with 1 billion over 3 years for rail, climate and digitalisation. This is shamefully little, knowing that according to Climact and the FPS studies, tens of billions of euros of public and private investment will be needed annually to get Belgium climate neutral by 2050. The climate movement came out on Sunday to demand a real Belgian climate plan with concrete measures. They get a federal plan with 35 vague measures whose budgets for each individual measure are still unclear. It is already clear that they will barely suffice. The details haven't even worked out yet. So the government does not yet know how many tonnes of CO2 will be reduced, what specific measure and what specific budget will be available. It's just getting amalgamated into that budget. At the very least, the population deserves to know what measure will lead to emission reductions, and when and what sub-budgets will be needed to achieve them. You pretend that the greening of the payroll is the solution, but it is not at all. An electric car is often far too expensive and public transport is not well developed or affordable. It is significant that this government will continue to invest EUR 3.75 billion in payroll cars and, on the other hand, only EUR 3 billion for rail. We do not want to replace all existing cars with an electric one, we need to work on affordable, sustainable and well-developed public transport to take cars and lorries off the road. Only in this way will we be able to reverse the prediction of the International Energy Agency that we will not be able to reduce transport emissions below the 2020 level by 2050. As far as mobility is concerned, we also hear that there will be a boarding fee for short-haul flights. That is good, but at the same time the government will work on affordable and well-developed international train connections, because we will not get there with the EUR 250 million shell. If it also depends on private tendering, there is a very high chance that the connection will not get there at all. Just look at the Brussels-Malmö rail link for which no operator was found. In any case, we need to regulate international rail traffic in order to make the price affordable, otherwise we will remain in situations where the train is six to seven times more expensive than the plane for the same journey. There will be a climate-OCAD to monitor the threat of climate disasters and there will also be a new scientific climate centre. That is all well and good, but when are we going to tackle the big governance buttons? The National Climate Commission has been running square for years. Since 2013 there has been a report with recommendations to improve this, but nothing has been done about it. When will you also work on the necessary constitutional revision to make a federal climate law possible? These are the real problems of climate governance, and I do not see the government giving an answer to them. Madam Secretary, you promised last year that there would be an agreement on Burden Sharing for COP26. In the meantime, we are three weeks ahead of COP and Belgium is threatening to go back to the top empty-handed. Hence my question. When will you finally take over the climate crisis federally, as was done for the corona crisis? That would make a big difference. The climate needs a unit of command, not a scattered battle order. When will you finally put an end to the fighting federalism that blocks every climate policy in our country? In addition to the climate crisis, unfortunately, there is also a biodiversity crisis that is equally pressing. You stand up as protectors of biodiversity, but the policies of the vivaldi government are in sharp contrast to the protection of biodiversity in two crucial areas. Firstly, you simply allow agricultural-based biofuels to exist and even increase their consumption and, secondly, you are pulling out the map of deep-sea mining that directly destroys biodiversity on the ocean floor. Speaking of policy incoherence... At the same time, you want to draw the map of the circular economy. The question is what specific measures are you taking in this respect? What investments do you provide for this? I have only seen investments in a desperate continuation of the linear economy with deep-sea mining, so are we really going to kill all life on the ocean floor until we have found the last bit of rare raw materials or will you wait until all raw materials have been extracted before you start taking real measures to close loops? I am asking myself a lot of questions, Madam Minister, about the policy statement and the greenest budget ever. Much will have to change before we take your climate policy seriously.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u196	Madam President, this government has the ambition to put our country firmly on the path of climate neutrality by 2050 and to demonstrate resilience in order to ensure our country against the already inevitable consequences of climate change. This is reflected in the current budget as well, step by step. In total, the government will invest up to EUR 500 million in green measures and initiatives in the coming years. We invest, among other things, in mobility and energy. We are shifting taxes to aviation and the transport sector. We invest in a fair transition and in the necessary and thorough risk analysis of climate change for our country. Moreover, we are also fulfilling our international obligations by gradually increasing our contribution to international climate financing. Our European and international commitments are the framework for this. Many policies and investments planned for the 2022 budget are related to the climate change transition, policies and measures planned in the different roadmaps adopted under the federal climate governance. These are investments in rail transport, in particular freight transport, the objectives of the roadmaps and a doubling of the volume of freight transport and the significant impact of greenhouse gas emissions. My colleague, Mr Gilkinet, referred to them a moment ago. There is also additional budget for investments in the renovation of public buildings and for the installation of electric charging stations. Investment is also planned to develop the necessary infrastructure for hydrogen transport. A reduction in fossil fuel subsidies is also foreseen with a reduction in the benefits for commercial diesel and a first measure to involve the aviation sector. It also deals with the development of the circular economy, sustainable public procurement and strengthening with a dual purpose, namely, on the one hand, improving the quality in terms of sustainability of goods and services purchased by the State and, on the other hand, encouraging tenderers to offer sustainable products and services. The financing of a climate centre is also foreseen. The amount of EUR 50 billion for annual investments, estimated in the Scenario study for 2050, is an estimate of all investments related to the energy and climate transition. It also includes private investment, being all investments by industries, households, the renovation of homes and even the purchase of new vehicles. Public investment is not just federal. All levels of government are involved. The figure of EUR 50 billion refers to the total investment needed and not just to the additional investment needed to achieve carbon neutrality. This logic should also take into account the investments already made by the federal government, such as investments in railways and electricity works. On the Burden Sharing, I can tell you that the discussions are still ongoing. We had an inter-ministerial meeting on Monday. All ministers confirmed their willingness to reach an agreement for Glasgow. After that inter-ministerial meeting, some IKWs came together this week. According to my feedback, all entities are doing constructive work. So far, I hope we can reach an agreement. Mijnheer Wollants, u hebt enkele vragen gestureld to which I will not answer today. As regards your questions, I have some maps in my hands for the purposes of the negotiations with the regions. They relate to financial responsibility. You asked me for the maximum amount I can get out of here. These are elements of the negotiation that I do not want to put on the table today because I do not want to reveal all my cards. With respect to the amount entered ETS, this is the first time this has been done. I must confess that we have taken an example of what seems to be a good practice in Flanders that systematically includes this amount in its budget. This shows our willingness to realize. In view of the ongoing discussions, we are confident that this agreement will be concluded before the Glasgow Conference. We did the calculations on the basis of the old agreement. But you're telling me that we could have less, if necessary... I believe in the opposite scenario: the federal government having revised its ambition upwards (I can tell you because I put the subject on the table of discussions and negotiations) in the context of the burden sharing in relation to the raising of ambition, it is clear, for the federal, that the fruits of the ETS will depend on the height of the ambition that everyone is prepared to endorse. This is what the federal government announced during the discussions. Given the position of the federal government that has raised its ambition, I do not imagine that the amount goes below what is set. I don't know if this is clear to you, given the advanced hour. In French, too, I now find it difficult to understand myself. If it wasn't clear, you tell me. That's it, for the ETS amount, I can't imagine seeing it drop! At best, it'll be more than what's on the table! As far as the contradiction between the exit of the fossil fuel and the gas power plants is concerned, I am not going to fuel this controversy. The mandate I have received falls within the framework of the majority agreement, which has both objectives: firstly, the reduction of CO2 emissions by 55% and, secondly, the closure of nuclear reactors and the construction of gas plants. The trajectory as I designed it and thought with my administration has integrated the issue of the emissions and reality of these gas-fired power plants, knowing that these emissions are calculated on a European scale and not on a Belgian scale. On ETS Transport, we have adopted principles that will guide the position that the federal government will take. You know that the final position will be that of Belgium. We have some principles on the basis of which we are studying the proposal. Where appropriate, any result of any taxation at European level must be returned to the Member States, and Member States must take advantage of these amounts to support families and businesses in the right transition. The position of the federal state is also to say that a combination of measures is needed and that, in addition to what is on the table, it is important to strengthen the issue of standards. So we are not just focusing on taxation, so we are putting on the table other concerns that allow us to achieve our climate goals. It is therefore with principles that we settle around the negotiating table with Wallonia, Flanders and the Brussels Region. You asked me if I could put the roadmaps on Parliament's table. In this case, what has happened to the government is a new step. We are still refining all the road maps. The idea is to present itself in Glasgow with measures and a very precise device. I also announced that, as part of the pilotage, every six months will be monitored and every year a report will be tabled on Parliament's table. All these elements will be public, including the roadmaps by minister. The measures will be detailed and we will be playing the map of transparency to the end, with the aim of ensuring that we have these roadmaps for Glasgow, at least the first for the next six months. As far as ETS is concerned, for us, the optimal framework is a combination of measures to remove all obstacles to the deployment of low- and zero-emission solutions. Setting a price for greenhouse gas emissions and phasing out environmentally harmful subsidies... Can I ask for a glass of water? I can't find Mrs Daems's questions anymore. You also asked the question of ETS and burden sharing, but I answered it for Mr Wollants. With regard to biodiversity, we consider its stakes to be at the same level as those of climate. We saw him with the covid crisis. You mentioned biofuels. I've taken a royal decree that organizes the release of biofuels, soy and palm oil, in transport. It surprises me that you have forgotten it and advanced the idea that we continue to subsidize it. I am working with my colleague Vincent Van Peteghem on a gradual release of the subsidies that the federal government brings to the fossil by 2030. The report exists. It was a long-standing demand and need for the PNEC. The report on the cadastre of these subsidies is on the table and, together with my colleague Van Peteghem, we are organizing its gradual release. With regard to the package of governance measures, as you mentioned, a number of measures existed and are included in the PNEC 2021-2030. You know that we have received a very negative assessment from the Commission, on the one hand, because our PNEC is not integrated and, on the other hand, because the measures do not, in his view, achieve the stated objectives. Some of the measures therefore come from the strengthening of the existing PNEC because, in 2023, we will have to file a new contribution. In this context, we have strengthened the existing measures and, as you mentioned, we have added a number of them, particularly in sectors that have not so far been concerned. There are also a number of measures which I call "facilitative measures", i.e. they do not participate in themselves, but they allow other measures to be deployed, in particular through the construction of transport networks for hydrogen, etc. It seems to me, Madam President, to have provided an answer to all the questions I had received at this stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u197	Madam Minister, thank you for the answer, but if it was difficult for you to follow, it certainly was for me. I think there are some buttons that need to be cut. You say that there are road maps, but that they are not yet fully worked out and that the details are not yet complete. However, they will be against you going to Glasgow. Then I think it is very important that you deliver these roadmaps to Parliament before you introduce them to Glasgow. That seems to me to be the least respectable thing about Parliament. It would be bizarre if the international community could take note of it before Parliament can say anything about it. I think it is important that you can make that commitment, but I see that you are about to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u198	I think that it has not been long since I left this Parliament to respect the work of this Parliament. In this case, it is a government steering tool that will not be the subject of debate or contradiction. The parliamentary debate that took place focused on the government's objective. Road maps, on the other hand, belong to the various ministers who put various measures on the table. There is no issue of debate. There is an issue of transparency and I am following you on this. The documents will be made available to Parliament. But here, as I said, this was an additional step in the implementation of this policy. I have arbitrarily set the Glasgow Conference as a deadline to land on more precise road maps. But I will not make a commitment today to introduce them to you before.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u199	For the sake of clarity, if you are proposing measures in Glasgow, then you are making policy choices. You must, of course, submit policy choices to Parliament, which must be able to control the choices you make. The government cannot simply say that it can propose any policy that fits in with the overall framework of the coalition agreement, such as that minus 55%. If you want to propose measures, you will come to Parliament with them so that we can give our opinion on them. We know, of course, that the majority will undoubtedly support these measures, even though they are not concrete enough to communicate them to us today. It is logical that we should be able to take note of these measures and the corresponding figures before you say anything at such a summit. How many tonnes of CO2 are you talking about and what budgets are you paying for that? It is true that you are not doing this on your own, because, of course, your colleagues have a lot of authority. However, it would not be a good thing for the government to decide what it is going to do and not for Parliament to know about it until it has been proposed in Glasgow. After all, that would be the reverse world. I really insist that you at least make that communication so that we can ask questions about it in committee. Maybe we all think that these measures are fine and beautiful, but perhaps they are not. Of course, we would like to discuss this. When it comes to the various stages of negotiation, I understand, of course, that you do not want to put everything on the table yet and that you do not want to disclose your lower limit. However, I think it is a good thing that you keep us well informed of the steps you are taking. In any case, I have not heard from you that you have no willingness to take financial responsibility for CO2 emissions. That seems to me to be a good first step. However, we need to keep our finger on the wrist there. You said that the gas plants are within the framework that you need to take into account, but that they are in the ETS system at the same time and that this country does not necessarily need to take the compensatory measures in this respect. That's pretty much what it's all about. On the other hand, I have to note that you have had the government decide that you will take measures both in non-ETS matters for which this country is responsible, as well as support measures within the ETS system. If you say that the windmills at sea are an important part of the measures we are proposing within our programme, it will, of course, have the greatest impact on the ETS section. This should, in principle, ensure that the more offshore windmills run, the fewer gas plants there will have to produce. So it is a little strange that you want to include offshore wind energy in your plan on the one hand, while you do not do that for the gas plants on the other. To quote a minister who is due to quote: 'Of course I am not happy with gas plants'. You should take that story with you, too, otherwise I think we're gonna crash. As far as the ETS for buildings and transport is concerned, I think you should think very carefully about what you are going to do about it. In the past, we have had a very intense discussion. Everyone went to search the figures and books where we could possibly free up funds to lighten the energy bill for consumers and businesses. You have then chosen to do so mainly for the 18% eligible for the social rate. However, if you are now taking measures that will actually boost the price of gas, I do not know whether the debate over the last few weeks has really got through, whether you are aware of what the citizens and businesses expect of you. So there is still a ride to make sure that we take the right steps. You should be careful when telling the outside world that you are going to increase the gas price by 20% because this fits in with your climate story. We really need to pay attention to that. I would also like to warn you in the same context. In recent months, certain cabinet members proudly announced that, among other things, the policy of this government has put the CO2 price at a very low level, so that the Regions have a lot of money to distribute for whatever. However, these are pennies that are also coughed up today by someone who uses electricity to power his heat pump, to charge his electric car or to simply heat his house in general. You need to think about that. Raising the CO2 price is not necessarily a good thing for all of us in all cases, because someone has to pay that bill. I think we should continue on a number of points in the committee. You have already given me a good idea as to what questions I could ask you at the next sitting. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u200	Madam Minister, I would like to return to biodiversity and biofuels. You are wondering whether I remember correctly, because you do want to phase out palm oil and soya oil. I have listened carefully and I have not forgotten that answer. There has also been a hearing on biofuels. I listened very carefully to the coalition against biofuels there too. They said very clearly that we will only have an effective policy when all biofuels based on agricultural crops will be phased out. You're not gonna do that, if I understand correctly. More than that, you're even gonna increase its use. Madam Secretary, that is not worthy of a green policy. Then I have one more question about international climate financing. If I am not mistaken, you have not gone into that further. However, I had asked a number of pertinent questions about this. The correct contribution you claim to make is nowhere to be found in the budget table. So my questions remain.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u201	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in the State of the Union we have not heard much about defence, but I would nevertheless like to discuss a number of points with you. I'd like to start with very positive news and sincerely congratulate you. The day before yesterday, we were allowed to read a hurray message from you. You yourself spoke of a historic agreement you reached for the defense. After 20 years of standstill, our soldiers will earn more money for the first time. Madam Secretary, the N-VA is giving you its clear support for your POP plan (People Our Priority), which is gradually taking shape. We support that. You announced that the plans for a cruising wage increase would cost EUR 2024, EUR 100 million, and that there would be 50 million additional allowances. In addition, pensions will also increase further from 2025. Our military deserve this. That message came on the same day as the State of the Union. Strikingly, the Prime Minister didn't say anything about that in his State of the Union. I found that strange - such a victory, such a historic agreement and the Prime Minister said nothing about it. I thought that, to say the least, was special. But soon the monkey came out of the sleeve. After all, you must finance this entirely within your own resources. You're hoping for a large outflow of "old, expensive" soldiers to get your funding around. The real budgetary effects will only become apparent in the next legislature. If we see it wrong, I would like to hear your response, but we are curious to hear from you how you will finance the EUR 150 million. Do you expect that you will not achieve your staffing objective, namely the extra 10,000 soldiers? As far as we can see at the moment - you are not always transparent about figures - the number of military personnel this year for the first time dive below 25,000. Unfortunately, this decline is continuing over the next few years, which will automatically allow budgetary space to finance your plans. There are a lot of recruitment procedures going on and you yourself announced that there should be an upward nodding in that declining curve, in that staff dismantling. Then it comes down to keeping those budgets under control. Perhaps the buffer that you currently have because of that falling number of staff might be gone and there might be an uncovered check, but perhaps it is too much to say. You are also right to say that military operations must not be cut back. Right now, after our departure from Afghanistan, our commitment abroad is relatively limited, not to say too limited if you ask us. If this trend of limited engagement abroad continues over the next few years, it will lead, consciously or unconsciously, to savings at the level of military operations. We therefore look forward with great interest to your operational plan of 2022 with which you will come soon. You will have to prove to us that you will not achieve any actual savings on those military operations. It is a particular challenge for the military. They're also choosing Defense to be in charge of operations. This also puts us on the map for international engagements. So please take the commitment not to save on military operations. Please make that hard the moment you present your operational plan to the committee. Then I come to my second point, the savings. Unfortunately, you have to save more than last year, we heard yesterday afternoon. Last year, the security departments were relatively spared. They had to save only 0.89%, but yesterday afternoon we were told by the Prime Minister that there is now a linear saving for all security departments, including Defence. So no 0.89 % but 1.11 % should be saved These are the new savings targets. What that means exactly, perhaps you can tell us. According to our data, this would mean that you would have to find EUR 30 million in addition to the EUR 150,000 at cruising speed for your POP plan. In other words, you need to find 175 to 200 million euros in order to be able to deliver your announcements. Madam Secretary, can you clarify this? Where will you find that space in your current budget? Thirdly, the strategic vision. That's what the State of the Union was about. Experts delivered a strong report during the spring. In addition to strengthening staff, they also made a strong plea to invest in new additional equipment: modern high-tech protective equipment, air defense, helicopters, vertical aircraft take-off, armable drones, strengthening of F-35 capacity, etc. We had hoped that the Prime Minister in his State of the Union would announce that he would have and could present his current vision. Unfortunately, it did not go beyond:le governement va actualiser sa vision stratégique. Madam Secretary, what's the status? Is the level of the IKWs finally over? Can we finally get a view of the strategic vision? When will this strategic vision be presented? Can you assure us that there are sufficient investments? These investments are also important to attract new people. People are interested in military operations, but they also want to choose Defense if they have new and modern equipment. In this way, we are also fulfilling our commitments at international level. Madam Minister, please submit your current strategic vision to Parliament as soon as possible. I hope you will also say later that you will invest heavily in modern equipment. Will you tell us how you will finance this? In a fourth point, I come to the budgets, the figures themselves. I am simply asking a question for clarification, because it is not always clear to us what is in the budget at the moment. For some it's late now, for others very early, so I don't want to be too critical. I also promised that to Mr Bayet. Nevertheless, I am asking for some clarity. At first glance, the figures in the tables and in your press release are not quite in line. In your press release, for example, you are talking about 24.1 million euros for cyber in the framework of the European recovery and resilience facility and 60 million euros from the Federal Relance Plan for cyber, logistics hub and energy renovations, together with 84.1 million euros. The budget tables show that there is investment of EUR 73 million for cyber and logistics hubs. Those figures do not correspond exactly, but I am sure you can explain that. I therefore very much like to hear that explanation. Finally, I would not take too long, nor should I be too critical, and I would like to discuss the quarters of the future, the EUR 100 million that you have provided, foreseen or will provide. That's a question: where's the $100 million? Can you confirm that the quarters of the future were already in the budgets, or whether they are hidden somewhere in the tables? If the DOD has those resources, where can we find them? I would also like to point out that, in spring 2020, a resolution was adopted in the Chamber on my initiative to specifically invest in new barracks. It was then chosen to first create a new barracks in East Flanders. At the last minute, at the initiative of your party, Madam Secretary, it was chosen to add a barracks in Hainaut. We know everything about waffle iron politics in this country. Now, however, we have to note that the barracks that were added to the barracks are being speeded up. We do not need to question you about the new barracks in Charleroi, in Hainaut, because I have the impression that this is going well. I like to have files that go forward, and we support that. However, I have the impression that we need to question you a little bit more about that East Flemish barracks. That's not because I happen to be from East Flanders, because I really don't want to carry an image of archaic provincial thinking. However, I would like us to be able to recruit defence personnel as well and as widely as possible. We must be able to recruit staff everywhere and ensure that we are able to hold on to our staff. Combating an early outflow is a huge challenge. Should I see the barracks of East Flanders together with the barracks of the future? Apart from some theoretical considerations, we have not heard so much about the barracks of the future. What exactly do you think the barracks of the future should look like? How do you see the collaboration with universities and with the innovative poles, the spin-offs of universities, and with industry? At this point, we don't know that yet. That is why I ask you to do something about this. Madam Secretary, I'm finishing up. The savings targets imposed on you are increasing. Additional staff expenditure, your POP plan, must be compensated within your own budgets. Additional investments, let alone an update of the strategic plan, are not yet available at the moment, apart from budgets that are opposed to them. Perhaps, in the absence of sufficient new recruits, or that is a challenge, will I be able to get around in the middle next year or the following year? However, we are concerned about the future of defence. Hopefully the soldiers won't get caught up in the gift you gave them. The soldiers deserve better.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u202	Madam Secretary, good morning, it's been a long time, but we've finally touched on the thematic discussion of your area of competence, Defense. Unlike last year in the European Parliament, we can now address you directly, and that is a good thing. After all, in his government statement yesterday, the Prime Minister did not mention very much about defence policy, nor about future challenges. There are a lot of them, though. Some will say that this is understandable, since energy and the social issues, quite rightly, deserve a great deal of attention. However, I also believe that the defence sector deserves the attention it deserves, and I am sure you agree with that, along with many colleagues here. That is why we are taking the opportunity to question you. What is now known about your policy plans and the related defence budget raises a number of questions for us. The planned wage increases, for example, are part of the People Are Priority plan, POP. What surprised me a little yesterday was that not yourself but Minister of Work Dermagne was the first to give us the happy message of what you call a historic increase in the wager for defence personnel. It is, for the record. Now I don't know if Secretary Dermagne has ever taken the post of Defense, but things are as they are. It might have been nicer if you could have sent the first message to the world, or the Prime Minister, why not. Anyway, it's the way it is. In any case, we are pleased that the issue of wage increases could be concluded with the social partners and that the military finally get a look at something. We have been able to read a lot in the press about exactly what it will be, but there is still a bit of uncertainty. For example, we were able to read that 150 million had been released, of which two thirds are earmarked for the increase in the betting and one third for the allowances to military staff, illustrated by examples, and that the wager increase, which is phased out, will be completed for all by 2024. For another part, namely the meal cheques, which have been held for a long time since October-December as a carrot in front of the military, one has not yet come out of it. You will be able to confirm that - and this is still being negotiated, but you will see that for a very long time as a root for the military their noses are the meal cheques. I wonder how that's gonna end, because it's starting to look like the never ending story. Anyway, I'm sure we'll follow it up in our committee. It is still waiting to see whether the announced wage increase will actually reach the military's bill. This has not been evident in the past few months. I refer, of course, to the payment problems caused by the introduction of the famous HRM@Defence system. If it wasn't bad enough, that file made it even more painful and sadder for many soldiers, who were actually robbed for a piece. I would like to take this opportunity to urge you to straighten up this dossier at last, so that your beautiful historic increase in the wager does not turn out to be an empty box in reality. In fact, it would not be the first time that a root is being held in front of the military, which in turn is being agitated when it is in danger of becoming budgetaryly tight. The Flemish Interest Group is consistent - welcomes the fact that our soldiers are rewarded for their efforts, and that wages are also upgraded to the level of police personnel and other security professions. This brings me seamlessly to the budgetary picture of all the announcements. You say that the betting will be increased, without touching the operating and operating budget. That raises at least a few questions. At the same time, you add that the fiscal growth path of 2020-2024 will continue. As you continue to work within the same framework and Defence has been forced to make a lot of additional budgetary efforts in recent times, for example in the search for military Jürgen Conings, which cost EUR 867,000, not peanuts, and for ongoing aid after the floods, it is not surprising that the Finance Inspectorate considers your plans, however beautiful, priceless given the need to remain within the same budgetary framework. That's not only priceless, according to the Treasury Inspectorate, because the government doesn't want to invest extra in Defense? This is also not in line with the government's desire to cut resources in other areas, as agreed with your government partners, Madam Minister. In the 2021 budget path, this was a saving of 22 million. By 2022, it should amount to 49.5 million, and according to the CHOD, Admiral Hofman, you would have to cut away even 150 million by 2023. You admit that too, albeit a bit overflowing, on the Belgian government's web page. It's a little covered up under the aura of positivism and euphoria about the betting increase. You write there that Defence will contribute in solidarity to the fixed savings determined by the government. Somehow, you're speaking a little bit against yourself, unless you're correcting me in a moment? So you say that you will spend more and that you will increase the budget, but in a breath you are talking about savings. So what will it be, Madam Secretary? I fear that we will be right and that the means of defence will be cut again. For the Prime Minister yesterday, we are on the right path, as far as we are concerned, the wrong path. I'm asking you to be clear. Where will you get the resources to finance the raise? You will not be affected by operations and functioning. Which parts of our armed forces will you cut into? When exactly will this saving take place? How much money will it be about in concrete terms? I have one final question. Moreover, it remains unclear whether the planned increase applies only to military personnel or also to civilian staff? Your press release only mentioned military personnel. In this connection, I have a question about the development of the fifth component, the cyber defence, your stick horse in your policy paper in 2020. We're a year later now. I ask the question mainly because we are talking about an increase in the wager. Now, when it comes to attracting staff to build up that cyber component, the shoe obviously breaks down in the area of betting. The staff specializing in IT and the detection of cyber threats, which you are looking for, often makes a very good living in the private sector. In view of your plans to increase the cyber capacity in Defense, our Defense will therefore also have to offer more attractive conditions to those personnel. With a basic wage for the ordinary military of about 1,800 euros, a public secret, it will certainly not succeed. So where are you with the development of the cyber component? How will you attract qualified IT personnel? Where will you get the resources? Besides the higher betting, youngsters also like to join the Defense because of their participation in foreign shipments and exercises. Soon you will present the operation plan 2022 to the committee. You proposed mid-November 2021. Given the budgetary resources allocated to the Defense Department, what criteria will you use to send our military on mission? Mr Buysrogge rightly pointed out in committee, which I have the honour to chair and which regularly meets and does a very good job, although I say it myself, that the number of soldiers working in foreign theatres is constantly shrinking. Will you generate the necessary resources? Which theaters will you be recording? Which do you think is important? What criteria will you apply in this respect? Would you follow the French in the Sahel with Takuba? Is it going to be the Middle East? Will it be Asia or the fight against piracy? I hope you will give more information on this in a moment. After all, it has remained very silent on this issue. In addition to the failed withdrawal from Afghanistan, the Prime Minister spoke the day before yesterday about his plans for much more ambitious and stronger defence cooperation within Europe. At the same time, he spoke of NATO as the cornerstone of our collective security. That was also in the coalition agreement and is therefore nothing new. However, what he officially endorsed the day before yesterday is a shift towards a stronger EU defence policy, perhaps at the expense of the NATO alliance. I don't know. Who knows? I hope you will be able to explain this in a moment. We also see this movement in other countries of Europe, with France in the lead, not to mention the country. It wants to move more towards a common European defence alongside NATO. So we are in danger of running on two tracks. How do you estimate that evolution? Last weekend we attended the annual meeting of NATO Parliament with the Belgian delegation. I can tell you that this evolution was not immediately seen enthusiastically. The US partners in the NATO Parliament, which you will not be surprised to see, immediately tabled amendments to try to reverse the evolution which, of course, they also need to see. Are you still in favour of an enclosure within NATO, or do you think you should rather move towards a European alliance, which might gradually replace NATO? The Flemish interest is cautiously positive about the wage increase, but still fears that all your fine intentions will become empty promises. I sincerely hope I'm wrong. At the moment, it is a bit like announcement policy, which cannot be provided with the necessary resources, because savings are planned in the government. So we live in hope, along with all the military. They will not be reassured until they see the first euro in their accounts. You create a lot of expectations. Hopefully your POP plan won't be a flop for the military. Either you provide the much-needed recapitalisation of staff with your own Defence resources and you will have to save on other branches where the acute deficits are also piling up, or the historic wager increase may be a measure for nothing. I hope I'm wrong. Hopefully, the efforts you will make will become an en-and-story. There is a need to improve both in terms of human resources, staff and betting. It is also necessary to link investment in infrastructure and equipment, in order not to mention the investments that are still needed. This is necessary if you are to be able to attract the necessary staff. The Flemish Interest already chooses to invest in Defence as a whole. The decades of austerity led by your party have already done more than enough damage. I hope you don't walk that path anymore. So I am not asking you for words, but for deeds.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u203	Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, it is official: the military will receive a raise from 2022. That's a historic result for the Defense personnel. I had made that promise to our soldiers from the beginning of my mandate, to all those women and men who proudly wear their army uniforms. They're the engine of the Defense Department. The staff is the first pillar of the department. From the beginning they are central to my concerns and my actions. As soon as I've taken up my duties, I've taken on my responsibilities. I have committed myself to putting the ambitions I have for the department into action. I have kept my word and so the military will finally get the recognition they so richly deserve, after 20 years of status quo. Unfortunately, over the past 15 years, staff have been too often the adjustment variable during budgetary exercises. Nothing has been done to deal with the many retirements and the considerable exodus of employees who have been going on for several years. This has endangered the missions of Defence in the service of peace and its international solidarity within the UN, the EU, NATO and in ad hoc and bilateral coalitions. It has, of course, also had a negative impact on its action in the context of aid to the nation, which our citizens very much appreciate. Defence must be able to anticipate the crises and conflicts of the future, must acquire the technology by which it can be at least one step ahead of its rivals and potential opponents, but must also and above all retain a workforce that meets the level of ambition. In order to carry out its tasks, a better balance is needed between capacities, infrastructure, operations and, of course, staff. As of 2022, the military will earn net more for the first time since 2003. This increase in income will be fully implemented from 2024 onwards. The budget for this increase is EUR 150 million. Of that amount, EUR 100 million, or two thirds, will be used to increase salaries. EUR 50 million will be paid in the form of allowances for the military. The betting increase will take place annually until the upward revised ceiling of their category is reached. This puts an end to the system of two- or three-yearly increases. In addition, the seniority of the military of all categories from 18 years onwards will be counted if the diploma conditions are met. As you know, I have also attached particular importance to increasing the pensions of the nearly 30,500 soldiers who are now retired and those who will retire in the future. The pension increase starts from 2025. I see this important solidarity mechanism as a sign of recognition for our women and men who, day and night, have worked for years, sometimes at risk for their own lives, for the safety and well-being of all of us, as well as for the security of our partner countries. The challenge I put myself at the beginning of the legislature to put men and women, soldiers and citizens at the heart of the defence priorities is therefore not limited to monetary compensation. In accordance with the coalition agreement and my policy statement, I am working daily on the overall revaluation of human capital and the well-being of defence personnel. These are essential prerequisites for re-launching the defense for today's settlements. With my plan of initiatives for staff, I am indeed committed to maintaining the current staff and improving the balance between work and private life, as well as to modern and adapted infrastructures and, not to mention, the substantial increase in recruitment that I wanted to achieve, with 2,500 military personnel per year between 2021 and 2024 or a total of 10,000 new military personnel at the end of the legislative term. In addition, more than 500 first employment contracts and a civil representation of 15% among defence personnel will be provided. However, the POP plan, which is already unseen in the history of the department, is not an end in itself. It is a first step, on which I would like to continue to make defence even more attractive. The social dialogue between the military authorities and trade unions will not only continue in this context, but will also and above all be strengthened, in order to develop various initiatives in the field of human resources. Indeed, this new dynamic, which I want to teach Defence, is effectively achieved by providing not only more staff, but also more structural resources, in order to function effectively and efficiently. In this context, I urge that more recruitment and the acquisition of increasingly efficient equipment are accompanied by investment in training and education, in order to ensure the operational deployment of our armed forces on the side of our strategic partners. That is the message I want to translate through the main lines of the current update of the 2030 strategic defence vision. I must make it clear that these guidelines are in line with the coalition agreement and, of course, with the priorities set out in my political orientation statement. They also take into account the elements of the resolution of the Chamber of Representatives on personnel policy in the Defence sector and the discussions held with Parliament's Committee on Defence. Last but not least, they are, of course, also inspired by and based on the content of the report of the Strategic Committee, which I set up to carry out an up-to-date analysis of our strategic environment up to 2030 and to make recommendations for capacity development based on that new environment. The report of the Strategic Committee sets out the reasons for the existence of the armed forces in Belgium in the 21st century and the strategic objectives they must achieve. It concerns the concepts of missions and tasks that form the basis for the definition of capabilities, i.e. resources in terms of personnel, equipment, infrastructure, stocks, the sustainability of collective defence and the allocated budgets to protect our citizens and our interests at home and abroad. In this respect, they certainly provide a solid basis for the actual updating of the strategic vision. I will certainly have the opportunity to return to this in more detail in the context of the discussions on my general policy paper. In the meantime, I would also like to urge that the increase in the wager rate for the military in this case be carried out without affecting the budgets for operation and military operations. Defence will continue to pursue its fiscal growth path in the coming years, as foreseen in the coalition agreement. In spite of a structural saving requested, the balance between personnel, equipment, operation and operations could be restored, without encores on operation or for operations or equipment. Defence, like all other departments, will have to make an effort. Nevertheless, the prospect of a budget growth of over 1 billion for Defence is maintained throughout the legislature. We have to add the following resources: 24 million for cyber defense, as part of the European Recovery and Resilience Facility programme, 100 million for the quarters of the future and, what is new, 61 million for the federal reboot and transition plan for cyber defense, logistical assistance and energy renovations. I therefore received a total of 180 million for the route agreed in the coalition agreement. As far as savings are concerned, Defence will contribute in solidarity to the fixed savings decided by the government in July. As for the other departments concerned, these savings will gradually increase by the end of this legislature. It is too early at this stage to determine where the savings will be charged, but the fixed-rate savings of 49.5 million are lower than the additional resources of 61 million allocated under the budget conclave. This will make it possible to take into account, on the one hand, the implementation of the 2021 budget and the realisation of different dossiers in various areas and, on the other hand, the analyses and studies to cope with the savings. Nevertheless, the Defence budget will grow by more than EUR 1 billion throughout the legislative period. As far as budget growth is concerned, I would like to remind you that the government has also committed itself, through the government agreement, to guarantee the means for infrastructure, maintenance of equipment, individual equipment and operational preparedness, so that the armed forces are able to carry out their tasks in a feasible and sustainable manner. In addition, an Inter-Kabinette Working Group is currently examining how we can align our defence efforts with those of NATO's non-nuclear European allies, as reflected in the coalition agreement. I repeat this point in French so that it is clear: this wage increase will not be at the expense of operations. As far as operations are concerned, you know very well that in the coming weeks I will come to Parliament to present the 2022 operational plan, as I did last year. We will all be able to discuss it together. I'm not going to go into these details here. It is in the Defence Committee that we need to discuss it. I think I answered, Mr. Buysrogge, about the various amounts. It's certainly clearer for you. There was a supplementary question about what we spent in the floods, for the Conings case, for the covid. You remember that when it came to extending the mission in Afghanistan, I had received a supplementary budget of EUR 9 million to do so. As we had to withdraw from Afghanistan earlier than expected, these 9 million remain in our escarcelle. This also makes it possible to pay, whether for the Conings case, for floods or for aid during the covid crisis. I told you that, despite the economies, we have this growth. Remember. We're talking about dark budget cuts, and I agree with you. But these are certainly not budget cuts that I have made. Since I was here, in 2021 there has been an increase of 500 million euros in the Defence budget. There will still be 500 million euros of progress next year, all accounts made of savings. That's why I'm talking about $1 billion. Meal vouchers are extended. It's a file that goes on. It wasn't either. That's normal. As you know, this is on the table for the Ministers of the Public Service and the Budget. Of course, I am that very carefully as well. As far as the neighbourhoods of the future are concerned, as you know, the idea really is to have a better geographical distribution of Defence throughout the territory. Why the Hainaut? It is not because we have added it that way; it is because many of the Defence workers live in the Hainaut and have to move far enough to go to work in a barracks. There really was one point missing from the Defense in the Hainaut and that's why it was chosen. It is also an important employment pool, with many job seekers. That is why Hainaut was chosen, as was Eastern Flanders, for the same reasons. Charleroi has been approved. This is not a drag for Eastern Flanders. That's all I'm asking. We're ready for the defense. As you know, some communes, initially, were asking and finally said that they no longer cared about it. I am confident that in the coming months we will be able to find a solution. There are communes which, in any case, are demanding. I only expect that, to be able to launch them. And the budgets are here. HRM Defense is a problem and I am extremely aware of it. This software was not purchased during my term of office but, of course, I assume it and I have to find solutions. I told you in committee that 70 tickets or problems had been identified. We have since increased the number of staff at the Defense for Encoding. The company has also strengthened staff to address these problems. Since last week, of these 70 tickets, 10 have been solved. We have to keep going at this rate. I have asked for a weekly report on the progress of this work in progress. Count on me to follow this file very carefully. Mr Buysrogge, I'm getting to work and I think I've been at work since the first day. That is why, in a year, we have managed to bring here news such as this one, which has been expected for so long. I agree with you, there is hope in the military; I believe I have kept my promise. I certainly don't want to disappoint them. Finally, it is important to be able to revalue them. We are here, in less than a year, carrying good news, which some had not even imagined before.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u204	Madam Minister, thank you for the specific answers we have received. I never said you wouldn't work hard, on the contrary. In the previous legislature, the main investment was in upgrading capacities. Because they really could tolerate a boost, there was strong investment on land, at sea and in the air and many projects were launched. We all agreed across party boundaries at the beginning of the current legislature that the top priority for this legislature should be staff. We therefore support the plans for the wage premium you are announcing and making it somewhat concrete. Remember that an attractive wage is an important condition for choosing Defense, but it must not be limited to that. There is also a need to invest in operations abroad, in modern equipment, in sustainable infrastructure and so on. You mentioned a number of figures relating to the budget, including those from the press release, which we do not find exactly in the budgetary tables we have received. In future discussions, for which we have plenty of time in committee, we still need to get a better view of this. In your statement in the Chamber, you did not mention the EUR 73 million we see in the tables. You are talking about a multi-issue of EUR 180 million if you add up the three items. Where do we find it? Is it a good conclusion that this is part of the traditional multi-question budget line for EUR 200 million? It would be interesting to find out. You say that it is absolutely no problem to compensate for the additional expenditure on staff, because you have received a billion euros more. So you can achieve that, but we continue to worry about the long-term budgetary impact. The invoice, which is inextricably linked to what you announced this week, will have to be paid in the next legislature and the question is whether there will still be enough appropriations. After all, staff is becoming more expensive, as this has been in service for some time now. The fact that newcomers are cheaper than old workers pouring out is, of course, an effect that does not continue to play. If the framework is fully completed, the buffers are gone, too, so we must all be vigilant about the budgetary effects. As regards updating the strategic vision, you said just now that it will be linked to the general policy paper. They will be discussed together in committee. Is that right? If I'm wrong, I'd like to hear it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u205	No.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u206	Maybe I misunderstood. We are also looking at the operational plan, especially as regards, for example, the barracks of the future or the barracks for East Flanders. The concept of the barracks of the future is still unclear to me. I know there is a lot of potential in it, but I am still curious to get a thorough explanation about the concept in itself, regardless of the location. Madam Secretary, it is important that you, and in the case of the extension of the Defence Department, do not take a waiting attitude. We really need to take action, with the actors sitting at the table. We could then achieve this project together. I wish no more than that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u207	You used the first five minutes of your intervention to highlight your success. It is, of course, your trophy of this legislature. You have achieved that, and you are rightly proud of it. Hopefully your plan will be implemented as it is now proposed. I am not entirely convinced of the savings that are in it. In your opinion, it is too early to indicate exactly what will be saved, and that needs to be looked at. However, that does not seem to me to be the right way of working. Nor should you pretend to have achieved a great deal in terms of savings. That 49.5 million you quoted was originally 61 or 62 million. So we need to save less. However, that was not the question of military personnel; military personnel are asking for more resources to go to the operation of Defence, not to save less. So that's not exactly a feather to stick on your hat. At that point, I'm still hungry. The staff but also the maintenance becomes more expensive. This government provides 50 million to maintain the Defence Patrimony in the future. Normally, 200 million should be budgeted for that. So it is still 150 million too little to do what one should do, namely to maintain the Defence Patrimony and, preferably, to improve it. I am not convinced in that respect either. Above all, we need to look at the issues on which you will focus and the ones on which you will save. Besides, I'm not the only one who's noticing this. Yesterday I read a tweet from an important member of your new strategic committee, Mr Mattelaer. In his opinion, it is indeed an important development for the Defense Department. On the positive side, staff re-evaluation is not affected by the operational and operational budget. In his view, the downside is that EUR 150 million must be sought elsewhere within the budget. He asks what will be saved. Is that on new equipment, on international obligations, in other words on operations, on research, on education or on training? I can agree with Mr Mattelaer that it is still the case that you need to look for these funds elsewhere, despite the increase in the wager. In your opinion, it is too early to answer that question, so the question remains. There is no doubt that we will continue this discussion in committee, when presenting your policy paper. We will then hopefully discuss a clear and detailed overview of all savings and investments there. I'm looking forward to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u208	With regard to the Strategic Vision, work is under way in intercabinets. As has been said for a year now, the aim is to come to Parliament, after a debate in committee, during the last quarter. This schedule is being respected. As far as the policy note is concerned, it was to point out that we would be discussing it with each other at that time. But I imagine that as chairman of the Defence Committee, you will not fail to organize a strategic vision theme so as not to drown this topic among others. For details, there are a few small mistakes in what you're saying. I will give you an opportunity to be reassured in committee about this budget, because there are some incorrect figures among those you have given. Mrs Ponthier, "the majority is here to highlight trophies, the opposition to denigrate..." I will tell you that what matters is action. I am sure that, at the end of the legislature, we will agree on the action taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u209	I would like to respond briefly to Mr Buysrogge. You'll end with your intervention stating that you're concerned about Defense. I wonder if that is the same N-VA that started the previous legislature with 225 million euros of savings and turned off the lifts and heating? You say that you invested in new material in the previous legislature. The word investing is not well chosen here. You have ordered new material but not invested and those payments are now starting to run. In addition to those payments that are now starting, Madam Minister will invest in staff and barracks. That's quite an achievement, isn't it? To start now on deferred invoices for the next legislature... for that matter, we certainly don't have any lessons to learn from you. I understand you're in opposition and you need to be critical. That's quite right. Your second intervention was much milder. But when I see your external communication, and especially that of your colleague, Mr Francken, who is talking about a blow to the defense, I do not think that this is the time to write such things. We have to be honest, too. If it's okay, it can be said. Important decisions have been taken on staff. When I see that communication appear, I think to myself that this is not correct. I thought Yuri (?) The saboteur was, but that's not correct. I look forward to the further discussion in committee. There is still a lot to be said about these matters, but I had to say this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u210	I thought the minister and I were having a serene debate? Now Mr Verduyckt is trying to undermine this. That is not good from Mr Verduyckt. I don't know if you heard me right. I've certainly complimented you. Weren't you listening well or something? With regard to your comment on the transfer of the invoice from the past and our plans for the capacity we are moving forward to the future, I would like to point out that a military programming law has been voted on and that the budgets have already been set. This is, of course, being implemented in stages, but resources are provided to achieve this much-needed capacity. I assume that you support most of the capacities we have invested, perhaps with one exception. After all, these capacities were desperately needed. We have now decided to invest in staff together, and we support that. At the same time, I must also note that a number of savings are being imposed on the defence sector and that staff expenditure must be made available to the Minister's POP plan with his own budgets. Let us make some critical remarks on this, Mr Verduyckt. Oh, please.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u211	Mr Buysrogge, when I read about a blow to the Defense Department, I think that in recent years, the Defense Department has received different blows than today. Today interesting things have been said and important things have been set in motion. Then talking about a blow to the D.O.D., I don't think that's right.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u212	I want to conclude on a positive note, since I have finally heard positive words from our colleges of the N-VA and the Vlaams Belang. I would like to congratulate the minister on her work and thank her. But I would also like to thank us. Indeed, the work it has been doing for a few months is, in fact, the result of Parliament's work. It is a resolution which I tabled and which was unanimously supported, with the exception of one or the other abstention. For months, the minister has kept us informed of the progress of the issues. She's assuming her responsibilities. She talks with us about every case, which is not often the case. His willingness to respect Parliament is to be stressed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip131x.u213	Colleagues, before I begin the next topic with Minister Verlinden, I have to suspend the session for technical reasons, knowing that we will meet in a quarter of an hour, which gives us time to have a coffee, and perhaps a breakfast for those who have stayed all night and who I thank for their patience. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting Thursday, October 14, 2021 at 7:48 a.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 14 October 2021 at 07.48 a.m.
