ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic431x.u1	Madam President, Minister, I have a very specific question, in particular on the right to bridge the gap between self-employed people in the case of care for their child and home education. I would like to explain them just because it is such a specific question. This measure was also extended until the end of June 2021. It is the equivalent of a measure which we know for workers, namely the right to temporary unemployment in a number of cases, such as in the case of the closure of the school, the nursery or an institution or in the case of home education. For the self-employed we have an equivalent via the bridge law. However, self-employed people are not eligible if they can organise their own activities from home. This contrasts with the temporary unemployment scheme for workers, which was developed for the same reason and to which I referred earlier. This is true of those who do telework and end up in that situation. So even if telework is possible, but the person concerned must be there to take care of a child or to assist a child in home education, he or she can use the right to temporary unemployment. This is different for self-employed people. They're pulling the alarm on that. They rightly wonder how they should work at the same time as being teachers' assistants. There's really some cry for help coming to us from people who can't stand it anymore. I therefore have the following questions. Firstly, what is the state of play with regard to the inclusion of the right to bridge the crisis in case of quarantine or care for a child? How many applications were made and how many were refused or approved? Do you also have, more specifically on the reasons, figures of the number of applications for quarantine of the child, the number of applications for distance learning in a child and the number of child care cases at school closure? Minister, if you had those figures, I would like them to be split up. Secondly, what are the main reasons for a refusal? If the application for home education is refused, what are the main reasons? Thirdly, I have a fundamental question. Do you recognise that it is problematic that a self-employed person is not eligible if the self-employed activity can be organized from home, but the self-employed person has to accompany the child in home education? In what way is an assessment made? So how is it estimated that this is an activity that can also be organized from home? What are the criteria? Mr Minister, are you prepared to remedy the problem and, as a result, correct the situation in relation to those workers who can make use of temporary unemployment in teleworking? This seemed to us to discriminate against the self-employed. I'm not sure why a difference is being made. What is your opinion, Minister? Are you prepared to rectify the situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic431x.u2	Minister, I too have specific questions. I assume that the right of bridging was extended until 30 June. I have two specific questions. The first concerns the support of the self-employed during the extended Easter holiday. I don't want to talk about last week's chaos anymore. In any case, they enjoy the right of bridging when schools close, only in Flanders not all kindergartens are closed, nor are crèches. However, there is a call from the domes and from Child and Family to keep toddlers and toddlers at home for the next three weeks. In addition, local authorities provide emergency care, but it is sometimes already full and is really limited to people with an essential profession. Not everyone can go to emergency care. Meanwhile, temporary unemployment has been adjusted so that people get support to take care of their children over the next three weeks. Is this line also being extended to the self-employed, including the cancelled Easter camps on which people were counting on to move forward? My second question is in line with Mr Willaert's question. There are indeed freelancers who work at home, but who do know the pressure of their work and of the deadlines they have to respect, and who now have to combine this with distance learning. They are now also in the same situation in the extended Easter holiday, which puts enormous pressure on those people, especially when it comes to single parents. Is there no possibility for home-working freelancers to support them in the distance learning of their children or to receive those children during school closures or in quarantine periods?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic431x.u3	Madam Chair, Minister, my question is several weeks old. It initially dealt with the payment of the bridge fee compared to the end of last year and the beginning of this year. I asked you if there were any further delays compared to October, November, December 2020, and also compared to January 2021. If you also have the February 2021 figures, that would be good. We have already discussed it here: some sectors complained of delays. You know as well as I do that the slightest delay in this survival allowance for the self-employed can cause great difficulties for the self-employed and the self-employed who benefit from it. On the other hand, I would add something, because I imagine you will respond to the decisions of last week's Conciliation Committee. Many questions arise in relation to non-essential shops that will either close or remain open on the basis of an appointment. I took over the last dispatch seen this morning. You specify certain things in relation to non-essential businesses that are currently able to open by appointment. For March and April, they would not have access to the double bridge right, but to the simple gateway right if they can demonstrate a 40% loss of turnover. Minister, could you clarify things with respect to March and April? You specify at one point that, in order to have access to this dual bridge right, these non-essential businesses must be able to demonstrate that they must close on a mandatory basis. Minister, what evidence or types of concrete documents could be presented? A lot of questions arise according to the different sectors. I'm not here to make forecasts, and I don't know. But if, for example, by the end of April or before 1 May, there was a reopening, how will this be taken into account? Can you clarify all this? There are many questions on the ground. Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic431x.u4	Mr Minister, at the Consultative Committee on 24 March, the various governments of this country again took stricter measures to suppress the third wave of the covid pandemic. Among other things, it was decided to close the primary and secondary schools in the week before the Easter holiday and to allow shopping in non-essential shops only by appointment. We now know that an exponential increase in the number of infections can only be stopped if the number of contacts between people is drastically reduced. We therefore support these measures. At the same time, we must also pay attention to the impact of these new measures on, among other things, our entrepreneurs and the self-employed. Minister, I have two specific questions for you. You announced that self-employed people can avail themselves of the right to bridge if they cannot run their business this week because they have to take care of their children. What exactly are the modalities and conditions? You also confirmed that the non-medical contact professions, such as beauticians and hairdressers, can avail themselves of the double bridging right before March and April, as well as the travel agencies for April. The single bridging right would apply to companies that can continue to sell goods by agreement, including non-essential stores, if they can demonstrate a turnover loss of at least 40%. I would like to have the exact criteria for this. At what time will this right of bridging be paid? This will be necessary in the light of last weekend's figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic431x.u5	Madam President, I would like to join in this topical debate with two questions on the right of bridging. The measure announced is in itself a good one to defend. Self-employed persons are also entitled to a benefit if they do not have care during this extra non-school week and during the Easter holiday, as I read in your press release today, when camps are cancelled or fewer children can participate. However, this measure now applies per week, every seven days, while self-employed people sometimes only need two or three days because, for example, one is a older worker and the other is a self-employed person and each takes two days. Why can't it be a day? Today it would amount to 403 euros per week for self-employed persons with a family burden, or 322 euros without a family burden. I converted that. If one could take that per day, it would be 80 euros a day with family burden and 64.6 euros without family burden. I think it would be much better not to oblige self-employed people to take a whole week if they only need a few days. I would also like to ask whether this measure applies until the end of June or only until the Easter holiday. A more general question concerns double and single rights of bridging. It is no longer entirely clear to me whether the measures that have now been taken will apply until the end of June, as I have heard. In your press release today, however, you are talking about March and April 2021. That's very confusing. For what period are the decisions published on 25 March? Is that until the end of June? You say that those who cannot work by appointment and therefore decide to close the shop and only work with click and collect will be given double bridging rights. Who can decide that? Can one say for themselves that one cannot open and will work by appointment? In this way, a store, perhaps even from the same chain, can work with click and collect and thus get double bridging rights, while the other works by appointment and only gets bridging rights if it suffers loss of sales. That is a very different situation for two same stores and I find that very strange.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic431x.u6	Minister, we too have some questions about the right of bridging. Last week, not only had a lot of contact professions but also the so-called non-essential stores, which remains a strange distinction, as it were, a wet mop in the face: either they had to work by appointment, or with click and collect. In practice, this means that in a year in which many of them have already had a very difficult time, they will have to incur additional costs in order to turn a lower turnover. Whatever you do or turn it around, last weekend has shown that it is not a big deal in many commercial matters, quite the contrary. Also communicative is made a mess of it. Last week, you said that the double right of bridging would also exist for shops that should not close but work by appointment. Of course, there is something to be said for this, because their turnover is also falling due to the higher threshold if they have to work by appointment. Yesterday they received another message: who works by appointment turned out not to be able to claim that double bridge right. That was the second wet mop in six days. However, we know that sales have made a deep dive over the last few days. Many traders have told me on the weekends that they are wondering why they would continue to work. Many are just open because their competitors are still open. If they hadn't, they'd have closed the doors a long time ago. There is no point in continuing to work if turnover falls to 15% or 20% of what is normal, even if extra costs are to be incurred and additional staff needed to lead everything into good corona lanes. This is not how people are treated, Minister. There is also less and less coherence between the different measures. First of all, why can shopkeepers no longer claim the double right of bridging, even though they have seen their turnover go deep? Secondly, how come the rifle was changed from shoulder to shoulder in five days? Is it because the conversions are so low and you thought you'd have to push them a little deeper? I don't understand. The coherence of the aid measures has been completely lost. I would like to have an answer to my two questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic431x.u7	Colleagues, try not to exceed two minutes! You're three minutes away every time. I appreciate the importance of the questions and the subject, but in this way we will have more time for debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic431x.u8	Madam Chair, Minister, following the last Consultation Committee, businesses had to be closed again. It is essential that the self-employed continue to be supported, in particular through bridge law, whether it is simple or dual. Sectors must be closed while others can open by appointment. For these sectors, which are often referred to as non-essential, even if this name may sometimes challenge, working through a prior appointment may be impossible. Mr Minister, will these independents, if they are unable to operate by appointment, be able to benefit from the double right bridge of crisis, since they will remain closed? If so, for what months will they be entitled to this aid measure?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic431x.u9	Thank you, Mr Bombled, for your conciseness.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic431x.u10	Madam President, Minister, I will be very clear. I strongly advocate that you return to what you announced last week, namely "a double right bridge in accordance with the law, including for companies and associations offering goods to consumers who are closed to the public but who can continue their activities through deliveries or a rendezvous system". Those are your words! When you're a minister, you don't make false promises to wrap up last week's closures and confinement decisions. We take over and then we turn them into reality! This is totally inaudible for the self-employed. In view of the sales of these first days, the Union des Classes Moyennes (UCM) and the Union Neutre pour Indépendants (SNI) indicate that the turnover is down by 80-90%. Besides, it would be illogical that you cannot pursue this double right bridge since the Horeca can dispose of it even if it takes away, and that is a good thing. It would therefore be logical for non-essential businesses to be entitled to this double right of access and not only for the coming month, but also for the future. This morning, I was shocked to hear that Secretary of State De Bleeker announced that this would not be the case when the independents were rolled up and you made a commitment on behalf of the government. I ask you very clearly: maintain this right bridge, including when it is possible to secure trade on the basis of appointments! This does not give the same situation at all. Their sales losses are massive!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic431x.u11	Madam Chair, I will try to answer the questions in several chapters. I shall begin with the measures for the right of bridging with regard to quarantine leave, for the reception of a child or quarantine. The decision of the Consultation Committee of 24 March to close primary and secondary schools from 29 March to 2 April will allow self-employed persons to exercise the right of bridging for the interruption of their activities in order to accommodate their children. These self-employed persons will be entitled for these five days to a full benefit of 322.92 euros without a family burden or 403.43 euros with a family burden. The same applies to self-employed people with children in kindergarten or in child care, who have decided, despite the fact that they remain open, to comply with the government's recommendations to keep their children at home. As a reminder, the self-employed must stop their activity completely during this period of interruption. They cannot claim the financial benefit if they are disabled or still have the opportunity to exercise their activity at home. It is a social protection measure to grant a replacement income in the event of a forced interruption of activity to a child unable to attend school due to quarantine, isolation or closure of schools. Teleworking self-employed persons who normally organise their activity from home must motivate this complete and real interruption of their activity in detail in their application. The fact that the activity can be organized from home therefore does not constitute an obstacle to the granting of the benefit, but requires a precise explanation showing the complete interruption of the activity. According to the example of the employees, self-employed persons who, by a total or partial cancellation of a holiday camp or an organized extracurricular shelter, will be able to take care of a resident, minor child during the Easter holiday will also be able to avail themselves of the right to bridge the crisis for the day of care. In this case, the benefit will also be 403,53 euros per week of seven calendar days for persons with a family burden or 322,92 euros for persons without a family burden. As far as the figures requested are concerned, I can provide you in writing with a monthly breakdown, until 9 January 2021, of the number of self-employed persons who have benefited from the temporary measures of the right of bridging for quarantine and of those who have benefited from the measures for closing a school or nursery. I therefore propose that this table be forwarded, Madam President, so that all these figures can be transmitted to all Members. These figures should be considered as provisional. On the basis of this table, I note that most of the applications relate to the temporary measure of the bridging right for quarantine, especially in October and November, which is logical in view of the evolution of the sanitary situation during those second months, the second lockdown. In view of the delays mentioned in the payments of the crisis bridging right, I would first like to stress that my administration and the social insurance funds are doing a huge job of paying the self-employed on time. As far as I know, the treatment and payment of the various forms and temporary crisis measures of the bridging right by the social insurance funds is normal. I was not informed of structural and current delays in the payments of the crisis bridging right. As you know, I attach great importance to the fact that the benefits are paid on time. However, I do not rule out the fact that there is a delay in payments in a minority of the dossiers. These are mainly those files for which the financial benefit was not paid within the 15 days of the month following the month in which the application was lodged. This is often due to the fact that these files are incomplete or because additional certificates are needed for the social insurance funds. Furthermore, with regard to the specific cases referred to here, I invite you to submit them to my administration, which will examine them and return, if necessary, to the social insurance fund and/or the worker concerned. On this point too, I would point out that the bridge right is a replacement income and is therefore not intended to cover fixed costs. Economic aid to cover the fixed costs of self-employed workers is the responsibility of the Regions. I now turn to the right bridge of crisis for non-essential stores and contact trades. As the situation requires measures to slow down the spread of the virus, on 24 March the Conciliation Committee adopted new measures affecting, inter alia, contact occupations and non-essential businesses. I confirm that those who are obliged to stop their activities will be able to benefit from the double right bridge crisis, namely the contact jobs - beauty institutes, non-medical pedicure institutes, manicure salons, massage salons, hairdressers, barbers, as well as tattoo and piercing studios - who are obliged to close their doors. These individuals will be entitled to the double bridge fee for the months of March and April. For the following months, we will review the decisions of the consultation committees. It is impossible today to foresee beyond April. Travel agencies. In view of the ban on non-essential travel, travel agencies will also be entitled to the double bridge right, as they were entitled to it for the month of March. For the month of May, the situation will be reassessed in the light of the decisions of the Conciliation Committee. In the case of so-called "non-essential" stores: contrary to what was provided for in the initial notification of the CCO, the ministerial decree published on 25 March last considers that companies and associations offering goods to the consumer are open, but can only continue their activity through a system of order and collection (click and collect), delivery or appointment. If companies and associations use this appointment system, they must be able to demonstrate a turnover loss of at least 40% in order to benefit from the simple crisis bridge right. Nevertheless, I realize that the implementation of these measures is not at all obvious and that, for some stores, the appointment system is not a practical solution. Therefore, if it proves impossible for a company or an association to work by appointment and it must cease its activities or it can only work through the click & collect or delivery, it is entitled to the double right bridge for the months of March and April. In order to access it, she will have to provide proof of the impossibility of opening by appointment to her social insurance fund by providing a declaration form on honour, among other things. In this regard, I stress that it is essential for me to support the self-employed by ensuring the specificities of their respective situations. Finally, as regards supplementary self-employed workers who pay provisional contributions on the basis of income above the threshold of EUR 7,021, Mrs Leroy, as you pointed out in your question, the supplementary self-employed who pay contributions calculated on a reference income in N-3, less than EUR 7,000, cannot benefit from the right bridge of crisis. In any case, if the supplementary self-employed person believes that in 2021 he will have a higher income than his reference income three years ago, he may still apply for a crisis bridge right from his caisse. Where applicable, the benefit will be paid at the time the tax authorities provide the final figures for 2021 to INASTI. That, Madam Chair, is the most specific answer to the many questions that have been asked to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic431x.u12	Mr Minister, thank you for the clarity for the coming weeks, both about the closure of the camps and about the schools or crèches that have indicated that they do not want the children to come. There is a tie-up with the workers' scheme. It is good to hear that and to see that confirmed. In connection with being able to carry out the activity at home, I understand the situation, because self-employed people are their own boss. We know the numbers of abuse. So we need to be alert and prevent abuse as much as possible. However, I do wonder what I should imagine in such a precise explanation of a detailed justification for the interruption. I suppose that the fact that a child is at home, that one has to take care of it and provide for home education is sufficient in itself. Then why does that need to be motivated again? I also refer to Mr Lanjri's question about the number of days. Taking seven days immediately is difficult for a self-employed person, because then one has to stop for seven days, while it might as well be less. How detailed should the explanatory statement be? Which elements exactly are one looking for? I think the fact that the child is at home is enough to allow it. I am also looking forward to the table you promised us, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic431x.u13	Thank you, Minister, for your clarification. You confirmed that in the coming weeks self-employed people will also be able to count on the right of bridging to receive their children. Apart from the statute, everyone is facing the same problems. I am pleased that also people who are independent or at home freelance are entitled to a right of bridging. I also understand that they provide locks, because it is obviously difficult to check for abuse in people's homes. However, what justification should be given for this? Is it sufficient that the child is at home or should additional elements be demonstrated? Testimonies I have heard show that the pressure is highest when people are in charge of caring for children with disabilities or when they are accompanying children with learning or developmental disabilities. I also have a question later on about the reimbursement of visits to a psychologist, but if we can alleviate the workload for these people here, we might be able to avoid such visits.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic431x.u14	Minister, thank you for your answers. The Ecolo-Groen Group is concerned and mobilized to set up as much support as possible for our independents. We agree on this point. You clarified things, what was necessary. I know that implementation is not obvious at the level of applicability with regard to the impossibility of opening or the practicability of the click and collect. The situation is complex and one occupation is not the other, even if the whole is described as non-essential. It was important to clarify things for people who need these aids to survive. Moreover, we must always be able to allow ourselves the opportunity to debate certain measures by the end of April in committee. We'll have to see how things are going, we've only got one weekend back. We know that it went wrong for the independents, according to the various testimonies. Let us take some time to see how things are going, especially in terms of consumer behaviour. We realize that the situation on the ground is very complicated and we are looking for a new debate in a while. We support as much as possible at this stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic431x.u15	Mr President, my questions mainly concerned the modalities and the clarity. I got it from your answer. I know that you are very careful to ensure that payments are made in good time at the bridge law. That's comforting. I have heard little or no complaints from people or self-employed persons who were paid late. I know that you place a very strong emphasis on this. You have said that non-essential shops that prove impossible to open are entitled to double bridging rights. I'd like to get confirmation of that. I would also like to ask whether all the members of the committee can get the figures, not just those who asked for them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic431x.u16	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. One of my questions hasn't been answered anyway. It is good that you draw a parallel with the workers and therefore also provide for quarantine leave for the self-employed. I only note that self-employed workers then have one week a month, even if they are not consecutive days. Why do you not allow self-employed workers to take up three days in one month, for example, as in the case of employees? Now one has to take a week immediately. If necessary, after consultation with the government, can you correct that? Secondly, I have a question about the timing of the single and double bridging right. Do I understand correctly that the double bridging right is guaranteed until the end of April for the travel sector until the end of May and that the single bridging right is fixed until the end of June? Then there are three different dates. I thought everything was planned until the end of June, but apparently it's not. The double bridging right is only for March-April and for the travel sector also for May. That's not communicative. We can hardly follow it, so I hope that there will be more clarity about these dates on the website as soon as possible. Can you confirm that the timing I just mentioned is correct?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic431x.u17	Mrs Lanjri, the timing you are giving is not correct. Travel agencies are concerned only until April. It must be understood that bridge law is, in principle, acquired until June. However, this right is granted on the basis of decisions taken by the Conciliation Committee. For the time being, if I am not mistaken, non-essential travel is prohibited until mid-April. So today we cannot say what will happen in May. It will depend on the decision to be taken at the next Consultation Committee, which will take place in one, two or three weeks. In other words, the time limits for bridge law must be adjusted in the light of the decisions taken by the Conciliation Committee. As far as travel agencies are concerned, the right to bridge is granted until April because they can – I hope, at least, but it does not depend on me – perhaps reopen in April or May.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic431x.u18	Mrs Lanjri, you will of course still have the opportunity to reply because this is a topical debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic431x.u19	Mr. Secretary, I'd like to invite you to the coast. Half the country is already on its way here and one more can be added. Maybe we should visit some shopkeepers together. I challenge you to sell them the answer you have just given on the double right of bridging, which in turn became a single right of bridging. You probably won't be running a lot of sales with your merchandise, so to speak. You say that measures are needed because of the coronapandemic, and one of them is working by appointment for non-essential shops. However, your colleague, Mr Verlinden, said on several occasions yesterday that the figures on the role of non-essential shops in contamination must be reviewed. That in itself is vengeful. Last week you were talking about a double right of bridging for shops that have to work by appointment. There's something to be said for that, but after the weekend that had suddenly changed. I asked you what happened on weekends, but you did not reply. You said quite laconically that a trader who wanted to get a double bridge would have to close his shop. Eventually, you hunt down all the shopkeepers, who don't really know whether or not they should stay open to do good, into the jungle to fight it out among themselves. Commercially, it is, of course, extremely unwise to close when competitors remain open, even in these difficult times. You are transferring the problem of the double right of bridging, which has suddenly become single again, to the traders who have been having a very difficult time for a year. What kind of policy is that? That's completely irresponsible, isn't it? In six days, the whole story suddenly changes. However, the traders started preparing for the next four weeks last week, believing that the double right of bridging would come about. They have committed themselves and have incurred additional costs in order to make all this possible, with all kinds of limitations that one should actually question. In fact, Mrs Verlinden is already doing so herself, before anyone else has the chance to do so. What kind of policy is that? You pass the hot potato to someone who's been hanging and strangling for over a year. In this way, this entire government and the majority deal with the self-employed. That's not our way of dealing with people. I hope you adjust this very quickly and change the shoulder of the rifle.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic431x.u20	Minister, thank you for all the clarifications you have just made. Your press release, at the end of the Consultation Committee, relayed the decisions that had just been taken. You have just clarified the terms of the bridge law, whether simple or double, and thank you. Thank you for everything you do for the self-employed!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic431x.u21	Minister, I can tell you that the non-essential businesses and the independents concerned do not say thank you. Frankly, Minister, the Codeco decision was clear: by working by appointment non-essential businesses were entitled to a double right bridge. You said it and you wrote it black and white. Already, it was a slap in view of the lockdown decisions taken. It is a second slap that you are inflicting on them today with this 180-degree turn and this decision not to grant a double right bridge when the stores operate by appointment, despite particularly challenging decreases in turnover. I don't know if you're measuring the impact! You explain that at the limit, they only have to close completely and that, in this way, they can have a double right bridge. Beautiful promotion of work while our traders and self-employed want to continue, despite a catastrophic situation, to remain open, and try worth working on an appointment basis! I can only appeal to all the political parties in this government to revert to the original decision and to allow these independents to have a double right of access. I don't understand what happened in the meantime. Either you told things that were not fair, minister, or what you were saying was true, but other political parties, at the government level, did not accept the double right bridge for those who work in open shops by appointment. Regardless of the parties involved, this is totally unacceptable! So you only have one solution: to discuss this again with the government and to change the government's decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic431x.u22	Minister, it has already been mentioned a few times today that at some point people themselves do not know what the rules are. I don't think you remember that at the moment either, because it's sister Friday and it is on Monday. The self-employed are no longer able to follow and have no basis for their income in the coming weeks. When they opened by appointment last weekend, many self-employed people were shocked that 80% to 90% of their turnover had disappeared. It has been pointed out here a few times that the removal of the double bridging right for the self-employed who remain open and work by appointment is a serious step through the bill. I would like to make the bill at the end of the journey, because that will give us a serious shock. The cacophony just keeps going and I'm really worried. That is why I want to give a concrete example: I went for a walk in the center of Genk last week and I saw a beggar with a cardboard coffee cup. Fifty meters further I saw a café boss who chased the people with the same kind of cardboard cups, just to sell some coffees. Then I looked at those two people and asked me who was begging: the boss or the homeless? I am seriously concerned about the way we deal with the self-employed and think that in the next few months there will be a lot more bankruptcies than we had in mind.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic431x.u23	Mr Minister, my question about complementary self-employed people is obviously far removed from the problem of the day, but not so much. Additional self-employed persons who have not been able to prove contributions of 7,000 euros in the year N-3 are really in a special situation for more than a year. As they did not have access to the bridge right, they did not have access to any assistance from the federated entities. As a result, it has been more than a year since they had accumulated the difficulties, knowing that they were already starting from a situation, in N-3, therefore in 2017, where they were perhaps complementary independent contributing less than 7,000 euros per year. But since 2017, many of these independents had, for example, become complementary self-employed part-time. As a result, these people will be able to prove in 2021, or in any case in the fiscal year 2021, that in fact they should be able to benefit from a partial bridge right; but they cannot do so now. As a result, they do not have access to related rights; and that, they will not recover them. That really makes them a very big loss. It's been going on for a year. So these people also emptied their mattresses. They also used all their resources. And so far they have absolutely nothing, even though we know that they may be entitled to it. I know my question is insistent. This isn't the first time I've put it down. Mr Minister, can we not try to anticipate a minimum of this "recalculation" of the fiscal year? I don't know by what exercise, I don't know by what statement on honour, I don't know how. But I think it's absolutely frightening. They are not entitled to anything today, when they need it, and they will probably prove, in a year or two, to the next fiscal year, that they were entitled to it. I know there is no immediate solution for them, but I ask you to think about it a little bit more and try to find an alternative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic431x.u24	Minister, I think there was one question or the other. I don't know if you want to answer that. There were a few additional questions. Would you like to come back on it?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic431x.u25	Madam President, I think I said everything I was able to say.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic431x.u26	Thank you, Minister. If there is no revival on the part of the minister, there is not necessarily a second round of comments in a topical debate. As the minister did not wish to react again, I believe that Parliament was given the floor in the last place, as it should be. So there's no reason to come back.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic431x.u27	Madam President, Minister, Deliveroo is active in a number of cities in our country. During this corona crisis, take away has become even more popular. Deliveroo saw his sales double last year. The company is already active in 13 cities and wants to continue to grow by being active in more cities this year. Currently there are about 3,000 Deliverookuriers active. They are registered as self-employed persons, often as self-employed persons in the secondary occupation. The majority of couriers, almost 70%, are students. However, for 5% it is their only source of income. The latter, of course, do not build up pension rights in the way it is now regulated. The trade unions are talking about bogus self-employment and the work auditorate is also going to investigate this. You yourself indicated earlier that there should and will be a more balanced system. At Takeway.com, one of its competitors, the couriers are hired as employees of the restaurant they work for or are on Just Eat Takeaway's payroll. What kind of arrangement are you working on with Deliveroo? What will be the content of this arrangement? Will you insist that the couriers should be employed as employees, since there can be talk of a relationship of authority between Deliveroo and the couriers employed? Are the workers of Deliveroo also represented in the consultations to develop a new system?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic431x.u28	Madam President, Minister, in addition to Mr Anseuw, I have a question about employment in the collaborative economy, which raises a number of social problems. There has recently been a ruling in the United Kingdom from the Uber Supreme Court, which actually pressured the firm to register the bogus self-employed or self-employed with a particularly vague status as an employee. For the time being, there is very little movement in this area in our country. An initiative will therefore be needed by the public authorities, which will determine whether the persons concerned remain employees or self-employed. There are quite a few problems with the way such companies active in the collaborative economy, such as Uber or Deliveroo, treat their employees. These companies take up a large share of the market share of existing service providers, by seeking out the limits in social law and sometimes exceeding them. In this way, they undermine regular employment and, above all, our social system. Indeed, the employees of the collaborative economy hardly contribute or do not contribute to the system, but are not covered by social security and do not build up rights. Eventually, that account will be presented to our State. What is your view on the problem? What are your suggestions? What initiative will you take together with your colleague in Social Affairs to work out a final settlement?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic431x.u29	Minister, this is a very important subject. I have been in Parliament for six years and it has been discussed for six years. The discussions were constructive, I do not throw a stone at your predecessors, but it must be noted that it is Justice that is moving forward. One month after the judgment of the British Supreme Court granting drivers of Uber the status of employees rather than self-entrepreneurs, the Californian firm decided to grant its 70,000 British drivers a guaranteed minimum wage, paid leave and pension contributions. This minimum wage will not prevent drivers from having higher incomes if they carry out a large number of races. In Brussels, Uber is also present, with about 2 000 drivers on its platform, and it is important that they are also quickly recognised as employees (even if the UK's status as an employee is not the same as in Belgium). The Administrative Commission for the Settlement of the Labour Relations (CRT), issued by the SPF Social Security, has already delivered a positive first opinion on the matter, concluding that the working arrangements of Uber drivers were indeed incompatible with a self-employment relationship. Indeed, there are a number of objective criteria which show that they are not independents, in particular the fact that they do not choose their prices or their journeys. At the level of the General Labour Auditorate in Brussels, no case is currently opened against Uber. On the other hand, the auditorate did initiate proceedings against Deliveroo. These bike delivery operators have the same problems and they must also be considered employees. Minister, the government agreement contains the improvement of the status of platform workers. What initiatives do you intend to take to ensure that workers in Uber or Deliveroo are recognised as employees? What's the status of Deliveroo's labour auditorate's survey of delivery agents?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic431x.u30	Thank you for your questions. The government agreement explicitly states that special attention will be paid to those who are structurally active in the platform economy in order to provide them with good working conditions and better social protection. In particular, bogus self-employment and bogus work should be combated. To this end, the law on the nature of industrial relations will be reviewed and, if necessary, adapted in cooperation with the social partners and the sectors concerned. I will therefore examine with the Ministers for Employment and Social Affairs whether it is desirable to amend the law on the nature of employment relations and examine various means of protecting platform providers. I would like to point out that, even after the judgment of the Constitutional Court, Deliverookoeriers who, in addition to their small-scale professional activity, engage in an activity that generates less than EUR 6.319 per year, which is the amount of income for 2021, are entitled to the favourable tax and social regime for the collaborative economy introduced in 2016 and amended in 2020. Under this scheme, providers do not pay social contributions but a tax of 20%. However, a cost margin of 50 % will be deducted first. The final tax burden is therefore 10%. A quarter of this tax is allocated to the overall financial management of the self-employed. In principle, the collaborative economy has no impact on determining the nature of the employment relationship. Once the income ceiling is exceeded or tax conditions are no longer met, the income of the couriers is reclassified as self-employed professional income, with an affiliation to the social status of the self-employed on the basis of the tax presumption. However, it is possible for the persons concerned to challenge this qualification by demonstrating either that the income comes from an occasional activity - they must therefore be taxed on various income - or that it comes from an employed activity involving a link of subordination. As regards the qualification of the nature of the labour relations for the Deliveroo couriers, a dispute is under way with the Brussels Labour Court between Deliveroo and two couriers who had referred the matter to the Administrative Commission for the Settlement of the Labour Relations. At this stage, it is up to the courts and tribunals to decide on the social status of such providers, on the basis of legal criteria set out in the Act on the Nature of Labour Relations and/or it is up to the competent inspection services to ensure compliance with this Act. Finally, with regard to a possible amendment of the law, it is clear that the advisory bodies, in particular the CNT, in which the organizations of the various sectors, including the couriers, are represented, will be involved in this reflection.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic431x.u31	Thank you for your answer. It is a good thing that those involved are allowed to sit at the table. Because it is often about people who are relatively vulnerable in our socio-economic fabric, it is extremely important that everyone is well informed about what the scheme is like today and how it will become in the future. If people want to play it properly and build rights in our social security, for example, they know in what way this can or cannot be done. Today, these people are particularly vulnerable. That's my call to you, to this target group.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic431x.u32	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The particular attention given to the coalition agreement is very vague. The Flemish Interest hopes that it will soon become more concrete. The fact that we have been discussing this dossier in Parliament for so many years, as Mr Vanden Burre has said, is because there is still no proper solution for this group of workers/false self-employed/self-employed. That is why I hope that we will soon be able to work on it so that we can exclude the vagueness and little contribution to their own financial future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic431x.u33	Minister, thank you for your answer. We would like to be able to be more ambitious on this issue by going further. You have repeated the rules that I have obviously taken note of. In any case, Ecolo-Groen will act in favour of a full recognition of a status for these workers, simply because it is logical. I personally met the workers of Deliveroo. The latter cannot be regarded as independents. They deserve the status of employee, even though I know that the situation is not simple, that court decisions must be made and that these decisions may be contradictory from one country to another. I am thinking in particular of France, Great Britain and the State of California. However, for us, the objective is clear: to ensure that these workers enjoy a status similar to that of employees. Therefore, we will return to this issue that we have dearly loved.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic431x.u34	Madam President, Mrs Cornet, the various temporary bridge law crisis measures taken from March 2020 to the present, as part of the pandemic, do not contain a component relating to the maintenance of social rights in compulsory health care and benefits insurance. In order to safeguard these rights, the self-employed person has three possibilities depending on his financial situation:1. pay his social contributions over time; 2. request a carry-over of one year and possibly a clearance plan after the expiry date of a maximum of 12 additional months; 3. request a simplified exemption from social contributions. In the first two cases, provided that social contributions are paid, the self-employed person is entitled to a pension. In the event of an exemption from social security contributions, the self-employed person has the possibility, within five years of the decision on exemption, to pay the social security contributions for which he has obtained the exemption and thus to form pension rights. Assimilation with a view to opening pension rights relates only to periods for which the traditional bridge right was granted, therefore either following a cessation of self-employment or as a result of bankruptcy. For these periods, the self-employed person is entitled to the maintenance of the social rights in respect of compulsory insurance health care and allowances. Assimilation may be granted only for quarters for which the self-employed person enjoys the maintenance of social rights and at the earliest from the fourth quarter of 2020 for a fact, e.g. the interruption of self-employment or bankruptcy, which occurs between 1 April 2020 and 30 June 2021. In all cases, assimilation is limited to a maximum of four quarters during the entire professional career of the self-employed person.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic431x.u35	Thank you, Minister. The information you provide is clear, unlike the information you can obtain at this time. I've been working with a number of organizations. It is important to communicate even more clearly in this regard. That's the form. In substance, I thought that an assimilation would take place from the first quarter after the worker obtained the maintenance of his social rights. So that means, as you say, when he made a simplified waiver or paid contributions. When self-employed people apply for a bridge right, this necessarily means that they have difficulty getting an income and suffer a loss of income. It is therefore difficult to imagine the self-employed in this situation to pay voluntary contributions. In addition, we still have to think about it to postpone for a year. I invite you, Minister, to have a clearer communication so that the self-employed social insurance funds can better advise them, because this information was not particularly easy to obtain without going through your services or this question in committee. I thank you and encourage you to pay attention to this pension and the right to postpone for a year.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic431x.u36	Minister, I would like to make you aware of the situation experienced since the beginning of the health crisis by cultural guides and mediators who play a vital role in our cities, in our municipalities, in our museums to make our citizens discover art and culture and who contribute to making our heritage alive. I had the opportunity to meet an association of cultural guides and mediators in Brussels. Like the entire cultural sector, some people experience a very difficult situation as a result of health measures, especially since this profession does not enjoy a uniform status for all guides. In particular, I will relay two problems. The first is that of replacement income, which means that these people are in varying situations with those who are independent on a complementary basis and who have not been able to prove sufficient income in year N-3, i.e. the year following the attacks in Brussels with a sharp slowdown in this type of activity. As a result, some could not meet the criteria for bridge law. Then there are the self-employed with an article 37 status which do not constitute social rights, except for exceptions. Finally, there are those who have various statutes (interim, Smart contract, etc.) and have had significant coverage and income problems during the long closing periods of the past year. The second problem I want to highlight is that of the nature of the employment relationship for self-employed guides. In fact, they work for contractors who set schedules, who set tariffs, sometimes pulling these tariffs down for financial reasons. In some cases, they are even asked to provide a medical certificate in case of illness. So it looks a lot like a bond of subordination. Minister, how do you assess the situation of cultural guides and mediators, especially during this period of pandemic and health crisis? What specific and concrete answers can be given to the difficulties encountered during this period? Can you recall the rights of cultural guides and mediators working as independents in terms of setting working conditions and remuneration? Is a survey of the nature of the employment relationship possible for this sector of activity? What initiatives could the government take to define a true status for guides and mediators?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic431x.u37	Madam President, Mr Delizée, in reply to your first question, within the framework of my competence in the social status of self-employed persons, I would like to inform you that all general temporary measures to support self-employed persons in this crisis also apply to self-employed persons who are active as guides or cultural mediators. With regard to social security obligations and, in particular, the obligation to pay contributions, various measures have been taken in favour of self-employed workers. These measures have recently been extended and now cover the first two quarters of 2021. Any worker, irrespective of his sector of activity and category of contributions, who is affected by the consequences of the co-vid can apply to his social insurance fund for a one-year deferral of the payment of his social contributions, without this entailing an increase and affecting his entitlement to benefits. The measure applies to the interim contributions for the four quarters of 2020 and the first two quarters of 2021 and to the regularization contributions for the quarters of 2018 and 2019 due in March 2021 and June 30, 2021. Self-employed workers affected by the crisis also benefit from the possibility of requesting a reduction in their legally due temporary social contributions. Self-employed principals and assisting spouses, including starters who are unable to pay their social contributions, may apply for a simplified exemption from contributions. In addition, in the area of social security benefits, there are various temporary crisis measures under the law of bridge. If self-employed persons active in the cultural sector are forced to stop their self-employment completely, following a decision taken by the public authority, they are considered for a double financial benefit under the temporary bridge crisis measure for the months of October, November, December 2020, but also for the months of January to June 2021. This double financial benefit also applies to self-employed persons on a supplementary basis, as you mentioned, depending on the amount of their social contributions. In addition to this double financial benefit, a new system has also been in place since January 1, 2021, which provides a financial benefit for self-employed workers, regardless of the sector in which they are active. As mentioned, as regards the social status of workers, this sector therefore has access to general support measures. In order to answer your second question, if it is indeed an independent activity, it is supposed to be organised outside a link of subordination and therefore with a certain freedom and autonomy with regard to the determination of working conditions. They cannot therefore be imposed unilaterally by the other party. Cultural guides and mediators who have uncertainties as to the nature of their employment relationship may, if the latter is less than one year old, apply to the Administrative Commission for the Settlement of the Employment Relationship established with the SPF Social Security. This Commission is particularly easy to access because the procedure is simple, quick and free of charge. The application may be made either by the two parties concerned, i.e. the cultural guide or mediator and his employer or principal, or by one party without the other being involved, which makes it possible to obtain a decision without risking harm to the employment relationship. In the event of a dispute, it is of course always possible to refer the matter to the Labour Court. As you have read in my general policy note, I am committed to supporting the fight against social fraud, particularly in the context of the social status of workers, the fight against the phenomenon of false statutes. I confirm that, in accordance with the government agreement and in cooperation with the social partners and the sectors concerned, the law on the nature of work will be evaluated and, if necessary, adapted in collaboration with the Ministers for Employment and Social Affairs. I will also look at the advisability of amending the law on the nature of labour relations and consider the various means of protecting workers. That, Madam Chair, may be a long answer to Mr. Delizée's question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic431x.u38	One never complains of long answers when they bring elements. Thank you, Minister, for that answer. With regard to the second part, which deals with labour relations and the fight against social fraud and the phenomenon of false self-employed persons, I believe that there is a need for mobilisation at all levels, with the ad hoc services. There are possibilities for recourse, for dialogue. We need to work on that. That is in line with my second question. As far as my first question is concerned, you give me a great deal of information about what I know, namely the general measures for the self-employed in their main role. There is no problem for these; they have indeed been covered. But it's a niche profession, which maybe represents a few hundred people. These are precisely not in this self-employed status in their main capacity. They are independent complementary and have not, as I indicated, been able to prove sufficient income to be recognized and to collect the bridge right. As a result, these people found themselves without income for many months. Or these people are in hybrid statuses, Smart, interim and others. These really went through the meshes of the net. It is precisely for these that it would be useful, with the various departments, because it is on the basis of several ministerial competences, to work on a statute, so that in these types of situations they are not forgotten by the system.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic431x.u39	Questions Nos 55015149C and 55015785C by Mrs Katrien Houtmeyers are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic431x.u40	Mrs Vanrobaeys, in reply to your first question, I can tell you that, since the introduction of the temporary crisis measures, the latter have been subject to critical control lines. A first control line is carried out by the social insurance funds, which are responsible for the payment of the benefit. A second control line consists of the external audit of the social insurance funds and the management of the National Institute for Social Insurance of the Self-employed (RSVZ). A third control line is formed by the RSVZ's Fair Competition Directorate (ECL). In 2020, the Executive Board of the ECL concluded 1,317 investigations in connection with the temporary crisis measures. The result was 421. Those figures were 592 and 90 respectively during the first two months of 2021. Cases of abuse and fraud shall be punished. Depending on the situation, the fund will recover the temporary crisis measures from bridging rights, an administrative sanction or a criminal sanction. All in all, since the beginning of the crisis, social insurance funds have recovered an amount of EUR 125.042.359,38 in connection with temporary crisis measures on bridging rights. As far as your second question is concerned, the Executive Board of the ECL shall cooperate with the Labour Auditorates when the file so requires. On 28 February 2021, there were 108 cases of suspected abuse of the temporary crisis measures, which were followed up by the RSVZ. Finally, as regards your third question, the various stakeholders have been working closely together since 2020 to detect and deal with cases of suspected fraud or abuse around the bridging measures. Moreover, information has been exchanged and shared between the three verification and control lines on a regular basis since the beginning of the crisis. They work together to adapt the various verification and control processes where necessary in the light of their experience and developments. In 2021, the controls were further strengthened. While the different partners focused on post-tradition controls in 2020, in 2021 they also focused on controls a priori. Among other things, by strengthening their cooperation mechanisms in close cooperation with the social insurance funds, the RSVZ developed fraud indicators in that framework in order to detect fraudulent or abusive cases very quickly and possibly to investigate further.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic431x.u41	Thank you for your comprehensive answer. I'm amazed at the amount recovered. This morning we also had a debate in committee with the Minister of Work. I regret that the support measures are being abused. They just allow us to keep our economy and the self-employed right in a crisis situation. We allow them to bridge that period and survive. You rightly said just now that the right of bridging is a replacement income. I couldn't agree more. The fact that there are cases of abuse of the situation in order to get that benefit unjustly in one way or another undermines our solidarity. I am pleased that you have switched to a more a priori control system. We must not only focus on strict sanctions afterwards, but above all on preventing the money that we are releasing from the self-employed who are now barely able to survive and need this support.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic431x.u42	I would point out that there was confusion in these questions this morning. Ms. Lanjri had filed an identical question which was sent to Mr. Dermagne this morning. If Mrs Lanjri doesn't say anything, I guess she's been answered to her questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic431x.u43	Minister, I have received this question from a future mom, who is an employee and, at the same time, self-employed in the secondary profession. It receives a maternity benefit calculated on the basis of a break in its usual earnings. At the same time, it may not carry out any self-employed activity for a period of six weeks prior to the birth of a multiple female or lose the maternity allowance. Moreover, the lost income is not charged for its benefit because it is unable to work as a selfemployed person in a secondary occupation during that period. Many mommies who are self-employed in the secondary profession receive a low maternity retirement allowance, which the future mommy finds bizarre. I put that question to you because I am sensitive to this situation. I also contacted mutuality, who said that the mother should choose: either she opts for the maternity rest allowance as an employee, which is lower, because she is based on a break in her usual income, or she opts for a maternity rest allowance as a self-employed person, which is possible if she has paid enough social contributions. I fully recognise the need to protect maternity rest, but this does not feel entirely fair. Do you see any possibility of meeting this? Is there any possibility of taking into account, in the calculation of the benefit, the income that a woman with an independent secondary occupation lacks during maternity rest? Do you also think it's a little crooked or am I missing something?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic431x.u44	Mrs Willaert, in principle, a self-employed worker in an auxiliary profession opens up his rights in his main status. In the case of maternity leave, the self-employed person will thus be entitled to maternity benefit under her main status, often the status of a worker. In any case, it is not the social status of the self-employed who imposes an obligation to put an end to the activity on the side of the profession. Article 115 of the Coordinated Law of 14 July 1994 on compulsory medical care and benefits provides that the holder must interrupt any activity. There is no system that allows to take account of the loss of income resulting from the interruption of the secondary occupation during the period of maternity leave. In order to obtain more information, I also invite you to put your question to my colleague responsible for Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic431x.u45	Minister, you confirm the situation. There is nothing you can do about this, and I will also put the question to the Minister for Social Affairs. In the future, more and more people will have hybrid careers. We must therefore ensure that they do not slip through the loopholes of the various nets, which is actually the case here. Thank you for the clarification, I am now sure we have a problem and I will interperate your colleague on this.
