ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic361x.u1	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, first of all allow me to thank you for the flexibility. My interplay was on the agenda two weeks ago, but because of an urgent family affair I could not keep my interplay at the last moment. So thank you for what. Ladies and gentlemen, through the press and the explanatory statement in the committee in question, we have all heard that the relaunch plan was already a document of 48 pages, in which the whole thing was described. At the same time, Prime Minister De Croo drew up the dossier to conduct the negotiations and see how the European pot could be distributed. I was a little surprised to see the finality of the negotiations. I had the feeling that they were being fed more like some sort of cow business where we had to keep things together, where different balances had to be looked at and where we finally see that, in our opinion, the distribution has not always been the same. After all, we must also take into account a number of important parameters. For this, we need to look at the contribution that each part of the country adds to the prosperity of this country. I am thinking of the contributions to personal taxation, the creation of wealth and exports and so on, as well as the population. We're probably living in the worst economic crisis my generation will ever experience. This is unseen. It has often been said that this is the worst crisis since the Second World War. Very often I hear from the media and various ministers that a number of issues such as energy transition, digitisation and so on are being addressed. I understand that the European Commission has imposed a number of obligations on which a certain percentage of that money has to be spent. When I hear, for example, Minister Van der Straeten on Radio 1 earlier this week, I sometimes get the feeling that the existing companies, the existing economy that needs to be saved now, the companies that could possibly be part of the tens of thousands of bankruptcies that will be there in the coming months, feel put in the cold, because the focus of relance is so often on energy transition and digitisation. Mr Secretary of State, I have a number of essential questions about the distribution of money. Could you explain the agreement more clearly? What specific balances have been taken into account? Why have these amounts been allocated to the different levels? I would also like to know which specific projects fit into the budget on which a consensus has already been found.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic361x.u2	Mr Secretary of State, this is a theme that plays on different axes. I myself work mainly in the Committee on Finance, but I understand that the discussions will mainly be held here in the Committee on Economic Affairs and that certain partial aspects will be dealt with in other committees, for example the Committee on Mobility. I will skip the introduction and immediately ask my three specific questions. First of all, can we get the table? What exactly was agreed? We have been able to read a lot of articles in the press and if I lay the puzzle, we now have a whole summary table. However, it would be good to confirm that what has been published in the press is also in line with what has been agreed. Can you provide Parliament with the detailed table? Secondly, there was a Community debate on the distribution of resources, since the Länder are getting a share of the cake, just like the federal government, which has made a advance purchase of 1.2 billion. There has been some unrest about this, especially in Brussels. The Brussels people felt that they were underwhelmed and they replied that there was no cause for concern because this would still be compensated. There would be extra investment with federal funds in Brussels. We see that too, because if the table of the press is correct, for example, 50 million of federal funds would go to Beliris. Furthermore, I assume that if there is investment in public buildings, this also concerns buildings in Brussels. However, the debate on the distribution ratio between Flanders and Wallonia has not yet begun. Agreements will have to apply if federal funds are to be invested in, for example, a number of buildings or other infrastructure such as charging stations for electric cars. Where are those loading posts or government buildings? Where are the tracks? EUR 365 million will also be invested in the rail network. Can you clarify exactly how these federal funds will be distributed or how investments in Flanders, Brussels and Wallonia will be reasonably balanced? I myself have been Secretary of Defense very briefly, only four weeks. Since then, my heart has been beating for the DOD. By the way, this year is the 75th anniversary of the Navy. We should definitely celebrate. In addition, there are also a number of financial needs and investment needs at Defense. As a result, we, myself too, have followed the policy paper very closely. This also applies to Mrs Dedonder's policy paper. There were also discussions on the policy paper a few months ago. Several ministers and secretaries of state announced investment plans at that time. They also knew where they'd get the money. That would come from Europe, from the European Relance Fund. That money would end up with us. Mrs. Dedonder had made a promise to the Defense Department that investment will be made in the barracks of the future. Two military barracks will be built in Hainaut and East Flanders. Mrs Dedonder reported that this would be financed with these European relays. At least I didn't find any of that in the press. Investment is being made in accelerating the energy neutralisation of government buildings. This doesn't concern new buildings. At least there is no clarity in that regard. Will those relays also be used effectively to build those two barracks?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic361x.u3	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, you indicate in the press that the amount of the stimulus fund is massive and unprecedented. You are certainly aware that many editorialists are much more critical of this plan. As far as I am concerned, I believe, in any case, that the latter is far from ambitious. In the current debate on this subject in this committee, you yourself acknowledged that the current level of public investment was very far from the level that our country was experiencing a few decades ago, and that the €5.9 billion plan would not be enough at all to reach this level, as would the level of 3.5% of GDP you are considering. Therefore, it seems useful to me to take stock of certain amounts set out in the federal part of the recovery plan. We do not have time here to discuss all aspects, but I would like you to let me know the details of the amount involved. Mr Secretary of State, first, what is the total amount of the federal component and the amount of each project that is part of it? We have already contacted your firm three times to send us the relevant document, but it has never been sent to us. A little more transparency in this matter would be to your credit. Secondly, the plan would provide EUR 365 million in investment for railways, or EUR 60 million per year. What percentage do these EUR 60 million represent in relation to the government's "normal" annual allocation for rail investment? Thirdly, the plan would provide EUR 170 million in investment for the renovation of buildings. What percentage of the federal housing stock does this amount make it possible to renovate? The objective of this issue is to have an overview of the amounts advanced. Fourthly, some recovery measures seem not to be really investment, even if they are entirely justified and are part of a recovery framework. What proportion of the federal package represents real public investment? Fifthly, in parallel with the use of the European currency, the federal government has also confirmed the transformation fund to inject 750 million euros into the capital of private companies. Would it not have been wiser to allocate this EUR 750 million to public investment, given the relative weakness of the amount of EUR 1.25 billion – if it had been referred to at EUR 2 billion, it would have been almost double the amount mentioned above – since public investment has a proven impact on the economy? In addition, there is a control of use. These are two elements that are much more uncertain when investing in private companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic361x.u4	I thank everyone for the questions and for the interest in our work, which is really important for the future of our country. Firstly, some have asked me to clarify the course of the process. At the request of Mr Van Lommel and Mr Loones, I will briefly repeat the process. In terms of process, to frame us on the approach that drives us and which is indeed very fast - in a few weeks we have created an inter-federal process of very broad scope - you will remember that, as a first step, we have launched a call for projects. In the first month after the government was put in place, we launched this call for projects with all governments in the country and federated entities. We directed this call for projects on five dimensions that we had identified together with all governments. It was important to define, from the outset, what would be included, but also and above all what would not be included in the draft plan. As a result of this call for projects, they were introduced to the tune of 24 billion. Once all of these projects were in possession, we, together with all the firms, organized some 20 thematic sessions between the federated entities and the federal government to refine our priorities and to ensure that the projects submitted by the Regions and the federal level were coherent and complementary. Let me give you a few examples. For example, mobility around Brussels is an important issue for Wallonia, Flanders, Brussels and the federal level, but it is an issue that needs to be addressed in an inter-federal framework. Mobility must be considered by involving all parties. This inter-federal work allowed us to align regional mobility plans with certain priority SNCB projects, with certain infrastructure projects led by Beliris, Flanders or Wallonia. This demonstrates the value of having an integrated and inter-federal approach. Another example on a completely different topic is hydrogen policy. We know that hydrogen is one of the energies of the future that will allow us to succeed in our transition to a low-carbon economy, especially for industries that today are intensive in CO2 emissions. Here, too, it is important to coordinate the federal level and that of the federated entities. The federal government, in its recovery plan, will set up the infrastructure, notably via Fluxys to lay the pipes that will transport hydrogen, while the Regions will be responsible for both electrolysiss that will produce green hydrogen from recyclable energies and all industrial applications. In this process, it is also necessary to talk to each other, so that the developments of the federal government are in line with those of the Regions and that those of the Regions reinforce each other, rather than being in opposition or on opposing themes. On the basis of these thematic discussions and as Mr. As Van Lommel mentioned, we submitted a first 48-page document to the European Commission (EC) on 12 January. The aim of this document was not to detail the projects already, but to receive a feedback from the EC on the main guidelines of the plan. We have also submitted - this is the essence of our approach - this document to the Central Economic Council, which brings together the social partners of the trade unions and employers' associations, and to the Federal Council for Sustainable Development (CFDD), which brings together various associations representing the defence of the environment as well as associations representing young people. Because given the importance of the stakes, it is necessary to consult each other. Before we discussed the key, we worked very hard on the content of the plan. Mr Van Lommel, we have maintained a certain logic for the project. After all, the project deals with our country's content and priorities for the future. It's about more than just keys and political discussions. The substantive discussion had to be linked at a certain point to the key to European subsidies. So the discussion first focused on the content and the broad guidelines. In a subsequent phase we discussed the key to determine the exact envelope of each entity for the realisation of the project. In December and early January we held interfederal discussions, which resulted in different scenarios as a reference framework for the discussions. On 12 January we reached an agreement on the distribution key. It is a balanced agreement and a good compromise. Everyone has had to make concessions to their original expectations. The fact that no one was really satisfied with the compromise proves that it is a good compromise that strikes a balance between the entities that use different logics. Since I spoke to you about two weeks ago, following the achievement of this agreement on the allocation of resources, all governments have used the last two weeks of January to identify in their long list of projects - remember the list of projects of 24 billion - those that would be priority and that they would submit in a first draft to Europe, for an amount of 130% of the envelope. Why 130%? We know that some projects will be reviewed from a budgetary point of view. Some will receive feedback from the Commission. It is therefore necessary to have an additional adjustment margin of 30 %. I really want to thank all the governments: the Flemish Government, the Walloon Government, the Brussels Government, the Government of the German-speaking Community, the Wallonia-Brussels Federation and the Federal Government. I think it is unique enough to stress this: all governments have had a very tight process. Last Friday, the same day, we received all priority investment projects from all governments. This allows us this week to integrate the various plans into a single version that we will submit next week both to the European Commission so that it can give us a technical feedback on the projects, but also to all the members of the social consultation and to the Planning Office to make a "macro" assessment of the impact of these projects. To answer your question, Mr Loones, at this stage, they are still working documents. These working documents are constantly evolving, on the basis of ongoing work with the offices of the federated entities and at the federal level. Out of respect for the people involved, it is complicated to give a stopped version of the work. The risk is that positions will be established on uncompleted items. On the other hand, we are committed, in all cases, once we have stabilized documents, to sharing them; but at this stage it is difficult to disseminate them widely. However, in a duty of transparency vis-à-vis Parliament, I undertake to outline the content of the plan in the following session. I say it very seriously, Mr. Van Hees and Mr. Loones, my office is a few meters from the house. We are at your complete disposal if, on a specific subject, you want to organize a technical discussion. We are at the disposal of Members of Parliament. We will welcome you warmly. [[Mr Loones, I have heard your question about the territorial distribution of projects.]] It is true that some projects are territorialised; you mentioned some Beliris projects or infrastructure projects in Brussels. Projects are territorialised in Flanders, including investments in... Very large scanners for drug detection are installed in the port of Antwerp. There are also many projects planned in the North Sea. Minister Tinne Van der Straeten takes initiatives to this end. Let us take the example of the energy islands in the North Sea. With regard in particular to rail investments, I confirm that the standard 60/40 allocation key will apply. As soon as we have a definitive list of all the projects - which is not the case today because we are still working on a 130% cleanup - I will not fail to produce an analysis taking into account their territorial distribution, although a large majority of them are not territorialised. When investing in digitalisation, computer security or some inclusion programmes, these projects benefit all Belgians - regardless of whether it is in Arlon, Ostend or Verviers. To answer your question about the next steps very quickly, Mr Loones, we will start a whole process of consultation in February and March. We still hope to forward a document to the Conciliation Committee in mid-March so that a final text can be submitted to the Commission by the end of April. In all cases, we will work by enriching the document with the opinions of the consultation and producing impact assessments - both from a macroeconomic point of view with the Planning Office and with some SPFs.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic361x.u5	Mr Secretary of State, may I ask you to conclude?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic361x.u6	Yes, Mr President. I didn't know I had a time limit.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic361x.u7	Yeah, there's a limit, isn't there? Try to wrap it up.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic361x.u8	Mr President, I will speak very quickly about the five axes of the plan, trying to devote thirty seconds to each of them. On the sustainability-climate axis, there will be 462 million. There will be energy projects, to enable the infrastructure of the transition, hydrogen projects, energy island projects in the North Sea. Mr Van Hees, there will be nearly 200 million on the buildings, with symbolic buildings to be renovated. You have seen the projects tabled by my colleague Mathieu Michel on the courthouse and on the 50th anniversary. These projects represent less than 1% of the total envelope. They will contribute to the recovery as they will put workers back to work in the wake of the crisis. They also have a symbolic dimension assumed because it is important to give, notably through the courthouse, a central image and a revalue to the Justice. There will be a series of projects that will be carried out through energy performance renovation contracts using external funding to maximize the impact on the federal housing stock. These projects will be carried out by 2023. On the digital axis, there are two metaprojects that will be supported. There will be a lot of investment in digitalising our public services, with a strong focus on justice because it is important in terms of accessibility for litigants to make available a series of online procedures and documents, as well as procedures related to our social security. There will finally be 80 million for cybersecurity, with projects led by the Defence and the Department of Justice. On the mobility axis, there will be 364 million rail investments, both to increase commercial speed and to develop infrastructure, in particular to be able to increase freight around the port of Antwerp. Mr Van Hees, we do not yet know the annual breakdown of the amount of investment, but know that this surplus investment will have to be committed by 2026 at the latest, with an amount to be put forward by 2023. The impact will therefore be high in 2022 and 2023. On social inclusion, there are both research projects, digital inclusion projects to bridge the digital divide, and projects aimed at prison audiences, led by Minister Van Quickenborne, on the prevention of recidivism in prison. Finally, on the productivity front, we have calls for research for industry, particularly in space and aeronautics, to support the transition to green technologies. We have the famous scanner project for the port of Antwerp, which must allow to fluidify the logistics of the port of Antwerp which is an important entry into the country. You will be happy, Mr Loones, to see that we also have the neighbourhoods of the future in Flanders and Wallonia. They are included in the draft investment plan for $100 million. As I have had the opportunity to say, the recovery plan does not stop at European public resources. There are other means that are planned, both from the ordinary investment budgets of the federated entities and those of the federal state. There is a series of investments that are massive and unheard of, Mr Van Hees. They take place by taking part in companies, to enable them to set up projects that have an impact on the digital or environmental transition. This fund, endowed with 750 million public, with a multiplier effect via institutional investors, is massive and unprecedented. It will allow companies to cling to the momentum of recovery and also contribute, through projects, to investments in a greener, more inclusive and more digital society.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic361x.u9	Mr Secretary of State, as always, you are well prepared and you will answer the questions in substance. You say that we should look at the projects in the distribution of the relay money. Of course there's a basis for truth in that. I understand it, too. However, the key is at least as important. You are talking about a balanced agreement and you indicated that nobody was satisfied with the compromise and that it is therefore a good agreement. I disagree. It is indeed a Community issue. Flanders has received €2.25 billion. When I look at the whole thing and in the light of what I said earlier about contributions to society, we are not getting close to that amount of EUR 2.25 billion for exports in Flanders alone. Nor are we close to the EUR 2.25 billion for personal taxation. The same applies to the population criterion. So, in my opinion, Flanders gets very little. Forgive me if I have to put it this way, but Flanders has let itself roll. The debate in the Flemish Parliament over the last few weeks has shown that the government is also talking about the compromise reached with Alexander De Croo and that she is quite proud of it. This is evident from the debates. However, I can only conclude that Flanders has been included in the dossier. I understand, of course, that you mention that certain projects such as hydrogen are important. We ourselves have a motion for a resolution currently under way in the Committee on Climate Change. It is a good thing that there is a lot of effort on that. However, what I cannot live with is that Minister Tinne Van der Straeten, for example, states that climate is the employer of the future. When asked what the current companies will see of these investments and how they will be saved, the answer is simply that they will have access to green energy. To be honest, I do not think that we can explain this to the existing economy and to all the companies in difficulty today. When I look at the obligations imposed by the European Commission in the field of energy transition, I see that they are good for certain parties in the current government. Relance funds under corona have been released for the green agenda on climate and energy, which is a good thing for those parties. Otherwise, those funds might not have been spent on it. So, Mr Secretary of State, I can only ask you to think about our existing economy, the companies that are currently struggling and are pumping to avoid drowning. In this sense, we are also tabling a motion for a recommendation, calling on the government to negotiate a new agreement, which should ensure a more accurate reflection of the distribution of the relay money, taking into account the population, the economic contribution to our country, the creation of wealth, the export figures and the tax contributions by the inhabitants of the various regions. In addition to the obligation to channel resources into digitalisation and energy transition imposed by Europe, the relance plan should also focus on supporting the existing economy, which has been affected by corona. We need to ensure that we can also get feedback at least once a month in this committee, with a state of play on the relaunch plan. Mr Secretary of State, I know you will. You promised this in the discussion of your policy statement.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic361x.u10	Mr Secretary of State, the debate can be very broad, but given the limited time available, I shall confine myself to a few points. Firstly, you say that the list cannot be shared, because it is a working document that still needs to be evaluated, so that it can only be delivered to our committee in March. However, it is very clear that this list is concerned about the press, about the media. When I see how many articles have been published, I believe that the media has more detailed information than Parliament. I call on you to show the same transparency, because it is a little strange that Parliament has less information than the press. Conversely, I understand that you will not give the list, so I assume that we will not read anything more about it in the newspapers in the next few days and weeks. In any case, I welcome the still announced figure table. Secondly, on the question of distribution, you refer to the fact that a distinction must be made between investments which are territorial and those which are more generally applicable. If there is a regional link, you have to pay attention to it, as you said, for example, you have confirmed today that rail investment will be carried out with a 60/40 key. I would like to thank you very much for taking that sensitivity with you. As far as the defence sector is concerned, I am pleased to hear that these resources have been provided for. There will undoubtedly be similar questions. I would like to conclude with three brief reservations. Firstly, 5.9 billion is a lot of money, but let us still be aware of the fact that it is not actually a correct amount for us. Belgium contributes around EUR 17 billion to European relaunch policy and we get 5.9 billion back for that. This is because keys have been used at European level which are not adapted to this corona situation. One looks, for example, at the unemployment rates applicable to a period when there was no corona. At European level, this division was not entirely correct and the result is that we have not been given our legitimate share. We welcome the 5.9 billion, but if we looked at the impact on GDP, for example, we should have roughly estimated 14 billion. So let us invest this 5.9 billion as conscientiously as possible. Secondly, you referred to a list of EUR 24 billion of projects submitted and then downscaled to the list you now have. If we can believe the media, then there are a lot of private projects in there from private partners that cannot be financed by this budget, because that must be used for public investment. However, we can see that your government has the ambition to set up an investment fund with the FPIM with a budget of 750 million. I would like to call on you to keep a line open with the Minister of Finance, so that the projects that have been submitted to you automatically pass through to him, so that these companies do not have to do the same work twice and so they can get the necessary information and secure their funding a little faster. Finally, you spoke in the press about a threshold of EUR 10 million. Projects of less than 10 million will not be financed. I have seen the list of Flanders and Wallonia and indeed there are no projects of less than 10 million, but I have not yet seen a Brussels list. I assume that this threshold of 10 million also applies to Brussels and that, for example, the Biermuseum, which counted 5 million, will not be included in this project. I am counting on you to ensure that this threshold of 10 million is also applicable, so that the funds can be invested usefully and widely.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic361x.u11	Mr Secretary of State, first of all with regard to your refusal to transfer the documents to us on the grounds that they are working documents, I believe that this pretext is not valid. We're talking about the taxpayer's money, so the population. Members are here to monitor its proper use. It is incomprehensible that you distribute these documents to the press and the European Union, while Members whose mission is to monitor government action by parliamentary means do not receive them. In this case, what is the point of a commission like this, if we do not have the right documents to question you? This opacity is not correct. In the rail sector, you do not know what the annual allocation of EUR 365 million is. However, if we divide this amount on an annual basis, we reach 60 million per year. What proportion does this amount represent in terms of normal rail investments? That's 4 percent more. You did not answer the question I asked you about it. So, what does this rate represent? Not much in relation to the mobility issues that lie ahead. And what do we see when we open the newspapers? We learn about the closure of railway station counters. The message given by the concrete policy which is being carried out is not very positive, especially in view of the amounts committed for a genuine development of railway infrastructure. Anyway, if we look at this one issue, it's pretty disappointing. As for the expression "massive and unprecedented" that you advanced in the press, you said that you described what you give to private companies. On the other hand, for public investment, we are far from the point of view. Indeed, an amount of EUR 1.25 billion may seem considerable in absolute terms, but if we return to the time of 5% of GDP in terms of public investment, that does not lead us anywhere. It is not this EUR 1.25 billion that will bring us closer to this percentage. In my view, the 750 million you inject into private companies would have been much more useful as public investment, to reach 2 billion. First, by investing in the private sector, you can't control what private companies are going to do with this money - unless you own the majority of the capital, but that would surprise me. Moreover, the multiplier effect is not proven. As much as it is established that a public investment has a significant impact on GDP growth, so much as you do not know how a private company will use the money you have invested in it. You don't know if this private investor will think it's money that he won't inject into the company. You make the opposite bet, and yet it is this case of figure that can present itself. In my opinion, the strategy is very bad. As soon as there is little money available for public investment, all available funds should be spent on them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic361x.u12	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Reccino Van Lommel and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mr Reccino Van Lommel and the reply of the Secretary of State for Relance and Strategic Investment, responsible for Science Policy, attached to the Minister for Economy and Work, - having regard to the framework conditions for the preparation of the Recovery and Resilience Plan imposed by the European Commission; - having regard to the discussions held in the Committee on the Policy Statement and Note on Relance; - having regard to the State Secretary's undertaking to involve Parliament in the preparation of the plan and a periodic feedback on the matter; - having regard to the objective figures for contributions to tax revenue, export figures and population numbers in the respective regions, - having regard to the negotiations between the Federal Government and regional governments; - whereas the outcome of the negotiations does not take sufficient account of the economic and financial contribution of the population from the regions concerned; asks the government - negotiate a new agreement to ensure a more accurate reflection of the distribution of the relay money, taking into account population, economic contribution, prosperity creation, export figures and tax contribution by residents from the regions; - to pay sufficient attention in the Relance Plan to supporting the existing economy affected by the global pandemic; - a monthly feedback to the Economics Committee on the progress of the plan drawn up. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Reccino Van Lommel and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr Reccino Van Lommel and the reply of the Secretary of State for Recovery and Investment, responsible for scientific policy, Deputy to the Minister of Economy and Labour, - having regard to the conditions imposed by the European Commission for the preparation of the Recovery and Resilience Plan; - in view of the discussions in committee on the theme of recovery in the context of the policy note and the political orientation paper; - in view of the Secretary of State's promise to involve Parliament in the preparation of the plan and to present a periodic report on the plan; - having regard to the objective figures relating to the contribution of the respective regions to tax revenues, exports and demographic data; - in the context of negotiations between the federal government and regional executive bodies; Whereas the outcome of these negotiations does not take sufficient account of the economic and financial contributions of the populations of the regions concerned; asks the government - to negotiate a new agreement ensuring a more correct allocation of the recovery budget taking into account the number of inhabitants, the economic contribution, the creation of wealth, exports and the tax contribution of the inhabitants of the regions; - to pay sufficient attention, within the framework of the recovery plan, to supporting existing economic activities affected by the global pandemic; - submit a monthly report to the Committee on the Economy on the progress of the plan drawn up. A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Leslie Leoni. A simple motion was tabled by Ms. Leslie Leoni. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
