ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic531x.u1	Mr President, Madam Minister, in a recent decree of 31 May 2021, you cancelled a decision of the Council of the Hainaut-Centre Rescue Area to allow operational staff in this area to choose between a 12-hour shift work schedule or a 24-hour shift work schedule. In order to justify your position, you have indicated, inter alia, that "the dangers and adverse effects of long-term benefits, and in particular 24-hour guards, are proven", citing a Swiss study and a Finnish study. The Act of 19 April 2014 laying down certain aspects of the organisation of working time for professional members of the rescue zones and the emergency medical aid and fire department of the Brussels-Capital Region and amending the Act of 15 May 2007 on civil security provides, however, expressly for the possibility of 24 hours' benefits, without any particular reason (art. 5(3) Minister, could you please tell me whether there is a willingness in the head of your department - as your recent decree of May 31, 2021, cited above, concerning the Hainaut-Centre emergency zone and many political echoes - to remove the possibility of providing 24-hour work benefits for firefighters and/or to amend the law of April 19, 2014 in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic531x.u2	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Thiébaut, the 24-hour shift issue among firefighters is not a recent one. A ministerial circular of 24 May 2016 warned against the dangers of 24-hour guards to the health and safety of stakeholders and the population they are called upon to assist and already announced the introduction of a bill to put an end to the structural regime of 24-hour guards. In response to an oral question asked on 13 July 2016, the Minister (...) of scientific knowledge in this field and that this task had been entrusted to a joint working group of the Internal FPS and the SPF Employment, Labour and Social Concertation. This working group conducted a systematic review of the latest scientific literature and delivered its findings in January 2017. They are without appeal: 24-hour guards, even with a limited workload, double the risk of illness and accident compared to actual 8-hour work benefits. The risk of professional error is also increased. A dose-effect relationship is clearly identified. The working group also noted that a study had shown a discrepancy between the worker's subjective perception of his own cognitive performance and the objective reduction in his performance, which had been observed through tests. It is therefore essential to protect firefighters from the harmful effects of their own enthusiasm. Unfortunately, a long period of day-to-day business did not allow my predecessors to introduce the bill announced in the 2016 Circular. Today, there is not yet a bill being drafted, but the eventual tabling of a bill ending the 24-hour guards for firefighters should not be a surprise to you or the firefighters, as it is in keeping with the circular of May 24, 2016 and its commitment to social progress. However, a transitional period of a few months for rescue posts, which are historically organized as 24-hour guards, could be useful in order to allow both rescue areas and firefighters to develop and prepare for a new work organisation. In order to answer your question concerning the current Article 5, § 3 of the Law of 19 April 2014, the latter effectively sets the maximum duration of a work benefit at 24 hours. However, the current Article 5(3) must be interpreted in accordance with higher standards. It therefore does not exempt rescue zones from compliance with the standstill principle or the principle of proportionality enshrined in Article 52 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. The deliberation of the Hainaut-Centre Zone Council, which you mentioned, did not respect any of these principles and was therefore annulled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic531x.u3	Madam Minister, thank you. So you confirm that your political will during this legislature is to amend the law of April 19, 2014 to prevent our firefighters from working in 24-hour shifts. You must know, Madam Minister, that maintaining this system is a will of the firefighters. It is also a desire of firefighters in many areas to move to this system, because it allows an improved quality of life for firefighters working in 24-hour shifts. Firefighters' work is not an ordinary job. It is a very special work, which has its specific characteristics. We're talking about people working in barracks. I don't know if you realize that, but all the firefighters in the Brussels Region work in 24-hour shifts. They absolutely want to maintain this 24-hour system because it allows them not to have to make the way between the province and Brussels every day. They work 24 hours and then have their three days of shift at home, which allows them to organize their family life properly. There are very contradictory studies compared to the risks for 24-hour shifters. I am prepared to provide you with scientific evidence that the current system is no more problematic for firefighters than the one that was applied over time. For years the work has been organised over a period of 24 hours. I think you can't imagine the earthquake you're going to cause in the fire department if you're preventing them from maintaining this system that is really very supportive of their family life and that suits them very well. I also do not understand why you absolutely want to pursue your predecessor's policy. You're not from the same party. I don't really see why you are committed to pursuing what Minister Jambon had begun. You're another Minister of the Interior, you don't have to continue what he started as a policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic531x.u4	Question No 55019018C by Mr Daniel Senesael is not applicable.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic531x.u5	Mr President, Madam Minister, the Chinese plant in Taishan (central EPR) has experienced a serious malfunction. We don't know any more. The Chinese authorities are quite discreet. Closer to home, close enough to touch us, an EPR reactor has been under construction for 12 years. It's already cost a lot of money. Clearly, EPR technology appears to show its limitations through gas production along nuclear fuel crayons. Minister, have you been in contact with the French authorities regarding the safety of this EPR reactor? Are you planning to ask them not to load the reactor with fissile material and put the project to a definitive halt?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic531x.u6	Mr President, Mr Vicar, I would first like to point out that each national safety authority is responsible for the control of the nuclear sector in its own territory. As a Belgian safety authority, the Federal Nuclear Control Agency (AFCN) is therefore responsible for monitoring safety in Belgian territory. In this context, it is impossible to decide whether or not to stop nuclear installations outside Belgium. In Europe, EPR reactors are currently under construction in Finland, the United Kingdom and France in Flamanville. The latter site is 360 kilometres from the Belgian border. Given the distance between this site and Belgium, on the one hand, and the information currently available to AFCN concerning the situation of the Taishan plant in China, on the other hand, the Agency considers that there is no risk to Belgian territory or its population. In addition, in 2008, the opinion of a committee of experts had already confirmed that there was no possible radiological impact of this new nuclear reactor in Flamanville on neighbouring countries. For AFCN, the exchange and sharing of information on a regular basis with the security authorities of our neighbouring countries, of which France remains a priority. This enables the Agency, on the one hand, to continuously improve safety in Belgium and, on the other hand, to learn more about monitoring safety in our neighbours. The AFCN therefore maintains regular contacts with its counterparts in these countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic531x.u7	Thank you for your efforts in French, Madam Secretary. Madam Minister, with friends, we have to be able to say things to each other. As Mr Chirac told Mr Bush that Iraq should not be invaded, I think the Belgians can tell France that it is a crazy project, that it costs billions and that France is going to be in front of an energy wall. I think between friends, we can do that. The density of our populations does not allow us to develop this kind of material. We're not in Nevada 80 years ago. We must take advantage of your bilateral meetings at European level to get the message across even if, officially, they are in command.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic531x.u8	Madam Minister, the organisation of events always has a long lead time. Since a few weeks, many organizers, in cooperation with local authorities, have been forced to shut down again after a year and a half. One of the biggest festivals in our country, Tomorrowland in Boom, did. Especially after Prime Minister De Croo's personal commitment, it was almost certain that everything would be all right, albeit with a month's delay. The Consultative Committee confirmed this on 11 May, but did not elaborate in detail. Five weeks later, however, on 17 June, the organizers were confronted with a ban of the mayors of Boom and Rumst. As the main reason, the mayors, who are jointly and severally responsible for public order in their municipality, claimed that it was still not legally possible to give permission. Anticipating future legislation, even though it had been announced for five weeks, the conditions of which were not known, was impossible for them. Local and federal police also gave negative advice for the event because they could not cope with the extra workload and thus cannot guarantee security. Not only Tomorrowland and the mayors of Boom and Rumst were confronted with the legal uncertainty of notices from the Consultation Committee, all cities and municipalities and numerous organizers were wrangled with the missing legal details that are essential for the proper organisation of their events. On 24 June they appeared in the Belgian Official Journal, albeit still with the battle for the arm: "that the modalities for these mass events continue to be framed in a cooperation agreement with the competent entities." Madam Minister, why is it still impossible to translate the notices of the Consultative Committee quickly into correct legislation, or into ministerial decisions? Secondly, how can the use of the police be increased so that the additional tasks relating to the corona certificate and passport control can be strengthened, in addition to its essential tasks? Thirdly, doesn't the government transfer responsibility to the local mayors too easily because it doesn't itself take responsibility?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic531x.u9	Mr Verreyt, the measures contained in the Ministerial Decision of 28 October on crisis management were applicable at the time when the mayors made their decision. They were applicable until 30 June. This means that the aforementioned MB cannot in any case be a ground for refusal of the event, as there were no rules that would prohibit such an event after the duration of that MB. We have always stated that the June 2021 Consultation Committee would evaluate whether the figures would allow us to continue, which we also effectively did on 18 June 2021. The precise rules that would apply to the larger events have been the subject of a discussion during the Consultation Committee of 18 June 2021, we said that, as you indicated yourself, the Consultation Committee of 11 May 2021 decided in principle to draw up a Summer Plan and organise larger events during the summer. Following the Consultation Committee of 18 June 2021, this was translated into a Ministerial Decision published on 24 June 2021, i.e. within six days of the Consultation Committee. It does not need to be repeated that many different activities and sectors need to be regulated in a ministerial decision in a way that was unseen before the crisis. Of course, closing all activities and sectors is easier from the purely legal point of view than the phased and controlled reopening. In any event, the time-limit between the Consultation Committee and the publication of the Ministerial Decision is not unreasonable. Moreover, the mayors concerned could have waited. After all, they made their decision in the same week. It is normal that there should be a legal translation process and that we should try to do so as best we can, especially in this case, when, for example, there were still a lot of rules to be laid down for travel. In addition, the general rules are defined at federal and national level, after consultation with the Länder. There is no question of not taking responsibility. I regret the report on this subject. The framework has been provided on the basis of expert advice. However, it seems obvious, unless you decide otherwise, that, on the basis of the principle of subsidiarity, local authorities can take final decisions. They are best aware of the specific local circumstances and are able to assess whether events of a certain size can take place on their territory. It turns out, for example, that a provisional decision has been taken in other cities, which I do not know if it is still being called into question, to organise certain events, and that it did not happen in Boom and Rumst. This shows that the principle of subsidiarity makes sense. The local authorities are best aware of the local situation, the epidemiological situation, the organisational capacities of the law enforcement services but also, for example, the local vaccination rate. They are therefore best placed for me to decide at some point whether an event can be organised, taking into account the rules that apply at that time. They are also familiar with this competence because they do so for many activities and events in non-coronatimes. I have already said that the absence of the ministerial decision cannot be a reason to refuse it. In addition, we have thought about how we could provide further support to the general framework. For example, we have included in the present draft cooperation agreement that the control of corona certificates or of Covid Safe Tickets in the context of events may also be entrusted to private security services by the organisers. In this way, the police will not be entrusted with an additional task. Finally, as far as the cooperation agreement is concerned, you say that it is still unclear. We cannot change the context. In this country, we need a cooperation agreement for certain agreements because it relates to powers of both the federal government and the federated entities. Every effort is being made to do so as soon as possible. The draft is before the Council of State for its opinion today. We will continue to do so, but I cannot speak in turn and see it as a done fact if this Parliament still has to give its opinion on that cooperation agreement. As far as we are concerned, Parliament will soon be able to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic531x.u10	Madam Secretary, you know Boom and you know some of the directors from the past, when you were still in charge of the local AGB Boom Plus. Boom is a small municipality with 18,000 inhabitants, with the corresponding restrictions. It's not a big city like Antwerp. In Boom it was rightly not assumed that everything would be possible again once the then ministerial decision ended at the end of June. Today's rules prove that, too. For Boom this is no longer a matter of time, but for many other cities and municipalities and organizers it is. In the meantime, I am glad that there is already the necessary clarity. We did not have to wait so long for it, not as with the rules for the catering industry which were published only on the eve of the relaxations, with all the consequences. I'm making a general call. The legislator should not only communicate live in the seven-hour news, but also quickly provide solid legal foundations and a police force that can handle its extra tasks. Five weeks after the announcement is really too slow for a sector that needs to switch quickly, but also for local drivers who have taken on their responsibilities and tasks in these very specific circumstances.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic531x.u11	Mr President, Minister, tomorrow we will vote in plenary for a resolution by the PS, which deals with greater transparency and research into PFAS, which has recently received a great deal of attention. The opinions accompanying the resolution also contained an opinion from OVAM pointing to the problems of fire-fighting. That's no big surprise because PFAS is not only non-degradable but also resistant to hot temperatures, and therefore ideal as fire foam. In the meantime, we know there's more to it than that. In 2011 a number of substances were already banned and last year OVAM wrote a recommendation to the fire department calling for them to jump very sparingly and to use this fire foam only in heavy industrial fires and to use only training foam during fire drills. There is also fire-fighting foam without fluorinated components, which is less good for the environment, but can be used in smaller fires. I have the impression that the fire brigades have already started working on some recommendations, but OVAM is a Flemish institution and we represent the whole country here. What's the situation with our corps? In the meantime, is there any news on this pollution? What kind of firefighter foam is used by the firefighter? Is there sufficient knowledge of the problem? Were the recommendations followed in Flanders? Fire brigades should at least receive the message to stop using fluorescent fire foam. Most fire-fighting foam is apparently supplied by civil protection. What's the situation there? Does storage and transport happen in a safe way?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic531x.u12	Mr President, Mr Verduyckt, I share your concern about the polluting aspect of PFAS and the potential risks to public health. We need to start working on the information that we now have and ensure that both the emergency services and the people in contact with these products can use them as safely as possible. Following the reports in Flanders, I asked the Civilian Security Executive Board to map the former and current sites of civil protection. Civil protection shall identify potential sites or domains that may be contaminated by fluorescent fire-fighting foam, by exercises or use in the past. This information will be made available to the Regions in the short term, and on the basis of this information, OVAM will be able to continue to do so. In the meantime, the governors have also been asked to identify within their territory, together with the mayors, the training areas of the fire brigade, the schools and the locations of industrial fires, so that this information can also be passed on to what extent fluoric fire-fighting foam was used there. We will then have to get to work on this. Afterwards, measures can be taken. There was no systematic inventory. There have been some exploratory exercises here and there, whether or not together with OVAM. A measurement campaign has also been launched for certain sites, but it is clear that we are now trying to tackle it at a more structural level. We have also sent a letter to all services, such as civil protection, to remind them of European legislation, because not all PFAS are banned today. There is also a kind of transition phase in which a certain fire foam could be maintained for a while to be used. That will have to be replaced by 2025. It goes without saying, of course, that these stocks must be destroyed in good time if they are not used, so that all regulations are respected. In the meantime, we have also instructed the Federal Knowledge Centre for Civil Security to examine, in consultation with the regional competent authorities and the relief zones, how to limit the impact on the environment by adding chemical additives to fire-fighting foam and whether another material could be used for fire-fighting. For example, the environment, the population and the services themselves could be protected from a greater danger, for example in the case of an industrial fire, for which the fluorescent foam is considered very efficient today. We must also look at cooperation with chemical companies and the wider business community to tackle the issue and ensure that alternatives are found as soon as possible. For the sake of security, the stock that civil protection still has and which is legal will be preserved in order to be able to deploy it where necessary. In Crisnée there is still 16,000 liters of fire foam in the framework of specialized support assignments. Brasschaat's unit has 89,000 liters of fire foam, of which 52,000 liters should soon be destroyed because it has fallen. The services are aware of the risks. Storage, transport and destruction are carried out in accordance with the best safety regulations and, of course, in accordance with the rules.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic531x.u13	Madam Secretary, we are at a stage in which the information you have just given is very important. We're gonna need it. We don't need hysteria. In my own city there is a training ground in the middle of a residential area. So it's good that we know what's going on there. You are right to say that we should inform about the industrial fires where this has been used many times and rightly. After all, it works well. We need to know if there are any consequences. In Flanders, a whole research will be carried out on this. Let that happen, let the information come out, so we know what the next steps are. We must make clear agreements when it is certainly not used. There are plenty of situations where that is certainly not possible. A balance will have to be made between the emergency situations that still need to be addressed. That's the next step based on the information that's coming up. I think you're on the right track to do that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic531x.u14	Mr President, Madam Minister, last week the police carried out systematic checks on the arrival of the train at Ghent-Saint-Pierre station. It thus made a "tri" of arrivals according to an amazing criterion: young people coming from Brussels but not having a reservation for the Blaarmersen leisure area were directly put back on the train to Brussels. The police said: "Whoever had an ID card and a reservation and behaved correctly was allowed to travel. All those who had neither were accompanied until the train returned to Brussels." Minister, how do you justify such a measure with respect to freedom of movement? Can you tell me the exact criteria of this "tri"?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic531x.u15	Madam Secretary, on Wednesday 16 June, the police carried out a large-scale check-up at the Ghent-Sint-Pieters station. Several bystanders reacted very worried because police control was apparently very specific to young people who came to Ghent by train from Brussels. This was also reported in the media. The official explanation of the Ghent police was that this was a preventive action aimed at young people from Brussels between 15 and 25 years of age. Those who did not have an identity card or who did not have a reservation for the Blaarmeersen were put back on the train to Brussels. Thus, a certain age group was clearly marked, but even more worrying was that this action was also aimed in practice at people with a certain skin colour. Several eyewitnesses reported that all the colored people were picked from the crowd. I quote Jo-Anne from an article that appeared in BRUZZ: "I myself am 23 and a young person from Brussels, but I was allowed to continue like all other white young people." Madam Secretary, were you aware of this police action? What parameters were used to determine who needed to be checked and who didn't? Is it true that people were put back on the train without a reservation for the Blaarmeersen? Do you recognise that a large-scale control is a form of discrimination based solely on age? Do you recognise that a large-scale control based solely on skin colour is a form of ethnic profiling? What measures will you take to ensure that preventive safety measures to prevent, for example, amok in recreational parks do not discriminate against thousands of people because the profile offender used is far too vague and too wide-ranging, such as the definition of 'Brussels young people'.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic531x.u16	Colleagues, it is the responsibility of every mayor and police to ensure that visitors to the recreational and coastal areas can enjoy themselves safely and without worry. The layout of the premises and the rules of procedure are good elements for this organization. Action must, of course, be taken against people who deliberately cause problems. With regard to Blaarmersen, the serious events of Wednesday, 9 June, led to the control actions of the Gantoese police. On 9 June, three people, including a security guard, were subjected to violence by several young people in Brussels. The judicial investigation into these acts is under way and a number of additional measures have been taken in Ghent immediately after the events in order to prevent such acts. A number of preventive and dissuasive actions have also been carried out at the Blaarmersen estate and at the Ghent Sint-Pieters station. The freedom to travel was not restricted by these actions, although, following incidents or elements that could lead to the administrative detention of persons who pose a serious threat to public order, the persons concerned were given the opportunity to resume the train. No police violence was committed and no one was physically coerced. With regard to the major control action of 16 June, the police have no knowledge of young people who have been escorted to the station in order to resume the train towards Brussels. During this action, young people from Brussels and possibly towards Blaarmersen were discussed. It was checked whether they had their identity card and a reservation document. Many young people changed trains, for example to the coast, when they saw the police or after the check. A number of young people visited Blaarmersen in accordance with the rules of procedure. The criteria used are: young people coming from Brussels trains, behaviour/incident in the station or train, indication (such as clothing) that they are going to Blaarmersen, possession of an identity card, a valid ticket and the necessary reservation, known or not to the authorities as a visitor at risk on the basis of previous incidents. Mrs Platteau, the mayor is the competent authority to allow a systematic identity check, so I will not be informed prior to that kind of activity. Of course, I was informed about the incidents that took place in Blaarmeersen. We cannot say that it was a large-scale control based on age, given the criteria I have just mentioned. There were 199 persons checked during the check, of whom the Ghent police also said that 10 % had no migration background, and so it was not a check based solely on skin colour. The measures were taken to prevent thousands of visitors to the Blaarmeersen in Ghent from being the victims of a dozen young people who did not respect the rules and even committed serious acts. In doing so, the police have a very difficult task to do, on the one hand, to ward off the problem young people and, on the other hand, to ensure that there are minimal or no negative consequences for those who have nothing to do with them. The Ghent police already provided a list of risk visitors recreational domains and will focus more on actions specifically aimed at those persons in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic531x.u17	Minister, I expected you to condemn the attitude of the Ghent police. But, on the contrary, you justify it and you find it quite normal. It is clear that the necessary measures must be put in place to avoid spillovers and acts of violence, and to punish those responsible for such acts. It is about the safety of our citizens. There is no debate to be held on this subject. However, this is about freedom of movement, which is guaranteed by the Constitution and which we must guarantee. You talked about the criteria and especially about young Brusselsians, about clothes. How are these criteria a criterion for determining whether or not there is a risk of violence? I do not understand on the basis of what one can say such a thing. Moreover, can't a young Brusselser go to Ghent without being controlled? Does being a young Brusselsian automatically make him a suspect? Your answer is not convincing at all. Moreover, it is really worrying that you have nothing to say about this action of the Ghent police. It's very serious. Where is the limit set? Will we condemn all the militias because one of them – I'm thinking of Jürgen Conings – had far-right ideas with violent behaviors? Why use this criterion to generalize a measure to an entire population? This is really unacceptable!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic531x.u18	Madam Secretary, thank you for explaining this police action. You mentioned that there had been incidents on the train, which then gave rise to that check. It seems that there was earlier a preventive police action, and that afterwards it was held responsible for the fact that there had already been incidents on the train. For us, it is important that now that summer is coming, young people are entitled to relaxation and to use the public space. Of course, this must be done in good conditions. Measures to ensure safety must be very targeted. You yourself say that 199 people were checked and that it wasn't about ethnic profiling; the checks weren't based on skin colour, because 10 % had no migration background. That's not entirely convincing, of course. You know that our group makes it a point that ethnic profiling really is not possible. We have also tabled a legislative proposal in this area. But I believe that age discrimination is also a problem that we should name. There is a lot of talk about 'Brussels young people'. You yourself say that their age was a criterion for controlling them, but 'Brussels young people' is a very vague concept. That's about a lot of people who are now being shaved along the same lines with ammo makers. I think that we really should be careful with that, especially now that summer is coming. We must also give young people in Brussels the opportunity to look everywhere for refreshment, refreshment and relaxation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic531x.u19	Mr. Demon is absent.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic531x.u20	Madam Minister, like Mr Demon, I am very often contacted about recognition as an occupational disease. That is not surprising either, because your predecessor, Minister De Crem, had issued a KB for the first phase, which even applied retroactively. I think there is a lot of incomprehension about the fact that the Royal Decree was not extended. I tabled an oral question on this in January, but it was not discussed because of time constraints. I then had that question converted into a written question. Following the expiry of the deadline, the demand was referred to Minister Vandenbroucke. I understand that recognition is his competence, Madam Minister, but my questions concern your view on this. What measures do you think should be taken? To what extent do you support the recognition? Mr Vandenbroucke did not answer my questions either. The deadline has expired again. That is why I ask the questions again, Madam Secretary. How far along are you? How do you look at that? What's the next step? Will you extend the KB? Yes or no? Can we clarify this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic531x.u21	I certainly agree with you that the staff of the police and the services, firefighters and ambulances deserved and deserved better protection against COVID-19. That is why, in December last year, I asked the Minister of Health to extend the recognition of COVID-19 as an occupational disease through the list system, both for the police and for the fire department. Trade unions have also rightly repeatedly asked for the system applicable during the first lockdown to be extended subsequently. In the spring of this year, several discussions were devoted to the question, which I endorsed. For example, the extension was raised in the A Committee, where Fedris, the competent entity, assessed negatively the request for renewal of the recognition as an occupational disease as there was no scientific evidence of a higher incidence rate for police and fire-fighting professions compared with other occupational groups. Several subsequent talks between my cabinet and that of the Minister of Health, despite all the persuasiveness that we have shown, have not brought any relief, so that the attitude in this regard has not changed. If recognition as an occupational disease is not approved under the list system, it may still be necessary to obtain recognition through the open system. Of course, we realise that the burden of proof for the staff is high and that Fedris often rejects files. Another option is to allow the infections to be recognised as an accident at work, but the accident insurance companies often refuse coverage for this. That is not in itself a solution either. In practice, if the occupational disease is not recognised, staff and volunteers will be covered by the sickness leave scheme or by the sickness scheme of their main occupation. However, on 4 June, the Council of Ministers adopted a draft Royal Decree which provides that if there is a cluster contamination of at least five persons at the workplace, which will be recognised as an occupational disease with retroactive effect from June 2020, which is a step in itself. However, for a number of firefighters and police officers, this may not be a satisfactory answer to the questions they have asked, even though that is a partial answer, as we have often seen clusters. On the basis of a number of poignant dossiers, in which people are waiting for their file to be examined at Fedris or the application for recognition of the disease has already been refused, I have once again drawn the Minister's attention to the seriousness of the situation. We have supported the fire networks in this and we have shared their concerns. In mid-June they also formally called the alarm bell. I can confirm that I share that concern and concern. As they ensure a first-line intervention service, including during the corona pandemic, they have often had to work hard in difficult circumstances and this has sometimes led to infections. I have also noted this and will continue to insist on recognition as an occupational disease, but I do not have the last word.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic531x.u22	Thank you, Minister, for your clarification. What I do not quite understand is that I should address myself to Fedris.... is that during the first wave there was no problem of recognition in the light of scientific evidence, whereas the agency is now making a point of this. Police and firefighters find themselves in situations where one cannot respect distance. I'm sure you used that argument. That's hard to do. I propose, ladies and gentlemen, that we all harass Minister Vandenbroucke with parliamentary questions and interplays in order to get him to do so. I'll at least do that. I think we should.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic531x.u23	Your call doesn't fall into deaf ears, Mrs. Ingels.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic531x.u24	Madam Minister, I am concerned about the scenes we saw on the coast last year, and I certainly want to ensure that they do not repeat themselves. The chance that it will be very busy on the coast this summer seems real to me. It is important that this flood is controlled not only because we are still in the pandemic, but also because we do not want to see the images of the stations again. There have been a number of incidents. I have received reports of incidents on 12, 13 and 16 June, but there may still be. Sometimes, because of Securail or the railway police, the police get reports of people on their way from wherever they come to the coast and cause nuisance. However, these reports are not clear. The police will then be confronted with large groups and anyone who is on patrol or on the job at that time will have to go there to ensure public order and good flow, which will result in a piece of basic police care disappearing. There is even a list in Ostend of which calls for other things the police have not been able to answer. That's a problem, isn't it? So I have a number of questions about how we will deal with this summer. I have, of course, read your letter about recreational areas and recreational areas. There are certainly some very good things in that. I read that it is desirable to make good agreements on public transport, but I cannot imagine that every coastal mayor should contact SNCB, the railway police or Securail to make separate arrangements. There are better systems for that. So what measures do you propose, apart from the letter, which was certainly a good first step? How will you manage to support the local corps, which are facing a very busy summer? Let me read you something. It's not from me. I quote from Yesterday's Latest News, June 29, 2021, in which Middelkerke's chief of police stated: "I have requested reinforcements from the federal police, but apparently they had no more men left for us as opposed to other summers. However, Middelkerke has the busiest summer program of all coastal municipalities." That worries me. I'm just quoting what's in the paper. So how are we going to do that? How do you see the role of the railway police and Securail? Can we intervene in advance with groups of people who cause real nuisance on trains? It's often about intimidating. There's even been sexual assault. It's also about black-driving and other criminal acts. Have you had any contact with your colleague Minister Gilkinet about this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic531x.u25	Mrs Ingels, in order not to have any misunderstandings, I would first like to say that in the integrated model of the police, basic police services are placed with the local police. The necessary decisions have been taken in the past. In the case of local areas, the system of national solidarity between police areas is still being applied and there is also the possibility of recourse to lateral and interzonal cooperation between local police areas. That is a first partial answer to the concern. In addition, the federal police can always provide additional support, where appropriate by specialised means. As in other summers, this will also be the case off the coast this year. You quote from the newspaper, but we all know that sometimes there is at least a difference between what is in the newspaper and what is happening on the premises. In this case, 28 federal police staff will be distributed free of charge to coastal zones in July and August. The DirCo West Flanders has made an objective key to use it. Specialised resources can also be deployed and the federal police have undertaken to provide structural support, with the deployment of police on horseback. During the summer months, eight police riders will be made available daily, according to the needs of course. Just as in previous years, the intervention corps of West Flanders will be protected from engagement elsewhere in the country in the coming months, so that they can free themselves off the coast. During the months of July and August, the federal police can structurally strengthen and complement its centralised intervention reserve with a system of devolved intervention reserves, so that it can also be used in certain incidents, depending, of course, on other large-scale events. For the province of West Flanders, this means that there will be at least a daily section of nine federal police people available for support, specifically for activities related to the activities and the crowds on the coast. Subject to exceptional circumstances, the hypothetical capacity of coastal zones will in principle not be used in the period from July to mid-September. The HyCap of the other police zones of West Flanders will, as always, be used as a priority but not exclusively for events within the province of West Flanders. Of course, this solidarity between the West Flemish police zones can also be maintained this year. As far as train traffic is concerned, the federal police will increase their presence in the stations with trains towards the coast, especially on days of good weather. It remains, of course, a responsibility of SNCB to ensure a safe station environment and an orderly course of action. In consultation with Mr Gilkinet, the necessary arrangements were made with SNCB. The deployment of Securail but also of stewards will be greatly increased during this period to make everything go well. They are intended to deal with dormant incidents before things get out of hand. In addition to the dissuasive presence of the stewards and of Securail, the police will also be able to intervene quickly in certain criminal acts. Communication with regard to passenger flows and any incidents is crucial. We must therefore ensure that they are able to communicate well with each other. A staff member of the railway police will therefore be present daily at the SNCB's Security Operations Center to monitor the monitoring and inform the police on the line in question. This package of measures should ensure that all this extra effort, including from the federal police, will enable activities and visits to the coast to go as well as possible, even this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic531x.u26	Madam Secretary, thank you for your comprehensive answer. Could it be that there is a communication problem and that the mayors on the coast don't really know what you have all foreseen, as you have just told us? I believe you've done what you could for the time being. That's fine, but maybe we need to communicate even better? Perhaps some elements in your circular letter are unclear? When I read your circular letter, do I believe that by "recreation zone" you mean the coast? But actually, there's very little in it about extra capacity. Maybe we should get some more communication to the local authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic531x.u27	Mr President, I refer to my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic531x.u28	Some ministerial letters determine the visual identity of police services and vehicles. As you rightly point out in your question, it is essential for both citizens and police officers to recognise, image, legal certainty, liability for the safety and general well-being of police officers. The letters to which I refer date from the early 2000s. In the meantime, we find that some police services sometimes differ from those rules and standards for better security motives, according to some police zones. Following the application of the Battenburg pattern to its vehicles by the Antwerp police, on 4 February 2021 I asked the Standing Committee of Local Police and the Federal Police to take a position on this on behalf of the Coordination Committee in order to have a common position on the assessment of those patterns and visual markings. As my policy statement also shows, I attach great importance to the visual identity, uniformity and conformity of the integrated police. Of course we can learn from each other but in terms of recognizability it is good that we are all on the same page. That doesn't mean I'm not open to modernisation and evolution in identity. There must be no proliferation of different styles. Besides, there is also a procedure for the integrated police to decide on a possible change of visual markings. It is therefore essential that the process of concept development, research, analysis, internal and external approval, adaptation and adjustment be pursued consistently in order to achieve a coherent result for the integrated police. I am still waiting for the position of the Integrated Police Coordination Committee, in particular on the Battenburg project in Antwerp. It would be a good thing if he could quickly reach a unanimous position that has been supported in this area in terms of recognizability, safety and well-being, both for the employees and for the population. It does not seem to me impossible to set up a working group or to set up a pilot project to examine the visual identity of police vehicles. It can also address the issue of the new police uniform, which we have announced and which, of course, also has a budgetary implication.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic531x.u29	Thank you for your very clear and clear answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic531x.u30	Mrs Chanson is not present for her questions. 55019317C and 55019318C which cause it to lapse.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic531x.u31	Madam Secretary, last week the media reported that Marc Van Ranst's security revealed a major staff shortage at the DAB, the agency responsible for the monitoring of persons. According to the most recent reports, only 3 security officers per person would now be employed instead of 7. Of course, this entails risks. The SAB is more than tired of this problem. There would even have been a strike announcement filed. Moreover, we heard that since the outbreak of the corona virus last year, no polygraph test would have been taken. The fact that in the Federal Police Behavioral Sciences Department there would only be four more specialised agents running around could explain this. This also means that waiting lists are now very long, with all the consequences, especially for judicial proceedings such as criminal records that cannot be closed, cases that continue to drag on, the reasonable period of time that could be compromised. Madam Secretary, is it true that in principle seven persons should be involved in the SGI for the surveillance and security of persons? Can you confirm that this number is not being met? What are you going to do to remedy this? Has a strike notice actually been submitted to the SAB? What's the status? Have you consulted with these services in order to meet their wishes? There is also an urgent need to find a solution to the problem of the collection of polygraph tests, Madam Minister. I hope to get a clear answer to all my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic531x.u32	Mr President, Minister, I will not repeat the situation. We've heard from the DAB repeatedly over the last few months. At the beginning of this year, there was an incident with the King. Even then there was a lack of adequate resources, at that time a GPS, and staff. I would also like to mention the situation that my colleague has just outlined. On Monday I also read a strange cowboy story in the newspaper about three members of DAB who transport their own kalashnikovs to the barracks in Etterbeek to do shooting exercises there. I wonder how it is possible for members of DAB, or any policeman, their own weapons, for which they apparently have a licence, to take them and transport them to a barracks, to take them inside and to do shooting exercises with them, causing damage. Those concerned, while the disciplinary procedure is under way, would have been put off the agenda for a while, but would be back in business by now. Madam Secretary, is that the last story? Anything on that? If it's true, how is that possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic531x.u33	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the decision to protect threatened persons with a specific operative part is taken exclusively by the Crisis Centre. This is based on the threat analysis as developed by OCAD, among others. For its concrete implementation, the Crisis Centre will call on both local and federal police, obviously in function of the protection measures to be taken. One of the options of such protection measures is close protection or close protection by the Directorate for Protection or DAB. For security reasons, I cannot give you details of the measures taken to protect endangered persons. The exact number is determined by the level of threat and by the operational risk analysis. There is indeed a strike going on by one of the four trade unions from 17 June to 22 July of this year. Only 1 in more than 600 employees has so far indicated their right to strike. The trade union calls for a solution to the psychosocial burden caused by the shortage of staff, an improvement in infrastructure and an evaluation of certain operational work processes. The DAB's capacity problem is known to the federal police hierarchy and has received special attention for several years. However, the number of candidates is often lower than the number of open seats. The problem of infrastructure, to which I have already visited, will be dealt with together with the Government of the Buildings. That's part of the federal police master plan. The necessary preparations shall be made for this purpose. As regards the incident, measures were taken immediately, both in the structural field and in the field of cooperation with the departments responsible for these activities. Since judicial and disciplinary investigations are under way, it is not for me to comment on them now. Moreover, it is difficult for me to comment on individual cases of threatened persons. In any case, I can assure you that in the specific case of which security has never been compromised. We have done everything we can to ensure that this is done. Mr Depoostere, as far as your question on polygraphs is concerned, I would ask you to put them in writing so that I can give you further details.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic531x.u34	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. I will put my question on the polygraph as a written question, but I hope that I will be able to get an answer to it in the near future. I understand you can't give details about the security of persons or specific cases. However, one is closely in line with the other. DAB has submitted a strike commitment, which is related to the capacity and work that those staff are currently required to carry out. Since there is a strike commitment, I hope that you will not only pay particular attention to the problem, but also that you will resolve the problem in the foreseeable future. In my view, that is the only way to meet our policemen a little bit. I understand that this is not always easy, but I think that it is important to come up with good solutions in the short term.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic531x.u35	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I am very aware of the great efforts being made to recruit sufficient staff. I understand that this doesn't always work out. I won't jump to conclusions. I won't do that now either. I have not been on the premises and therefore cannot know the situation. However, I hear that there is a real problem in the management field. There's been some sort of cowboy mentality, causing more staff to run away than people have the chance to get in. In that case, you can make as much effort on the incoming side as you like, if the staff leaves too soon, you have won net nothing, quite the contrary. Perhaps we really should do an audit of the service or step up a bit, to find out what is really going on there. It's a service that doesn't like to step out of the twilight. That is also the nature of that service. In recent months, however, the service has appeared in the media too much negative, which no one is pleased with. I would therefore ask you to carry out an audit or whatever is necessary. After all, if we continue in this way, there will only be more problems. Something must be done about the 'culture' that prevails there.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic531x.u36	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. The DAB recently made the news. Human resources problems must be solved and, as Mr Depoostere says, I hope that you will be able to solve them together with the trade unions. That's the way it works. Personally, I don't know about a cowboy culture that would rule there, but if we have to have an audit done in every department where there's something wrong, there's gonna be a lot of it. I don't think that's the way forward. If there are valid complaints, they must be dealt with by the P Committee. That's the right way, just writing out audits isn't.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic531x.u37	Madam Minister, there have been wage negotiations between your cabinet and the four police trade unions for some time, but no agreement would have been reached when I tabled this question. Wage negotiations don't seem to be making any real progress. The reason is that the trade unions do not agree with the proposals put forward. Both in terms of target group and in terms of amount, the trade unions consider the proposed wage increases to be quite inadequate. Similarly, the qualitative adjustments to the statute have not so far attracted the trade unions. The trade unions point out that the integrated police have not experienced any structural wage increases since 2001. A structural wage increase is therefore their main requirement. They also believe that no serious proposals have been put forward so far. They have therefore decided to temporarily suspend all participation in the regular negotiating committee, the high consultation committee and working groups from 12 May. In short, the wage negotiations are at a complete impasse, it seems. The unions point out in their demands to promises made as ministers to increase the attraction of the job, to correct the 20-year standstill of their betting scales and to take structural measures. Madam Secretary, were wage negotiations with the trade unions restarted in the meantime? Have new proposals been made that take into account trade union grievances and the fact that the integrated police would not have had any structural wage increases since 2001? A prospective inspector would currently earn less than a penitentiary officer. The CALog staff would also earn less than colleagues of the same level in the public office. What do you think of these differences? Do you have the ambition to eliminate these differences? What other measures do you provide for to increase the attractiveness of the profession? To what extent will local authorities have to bear part of the cost of a police raise?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic531x.u38	On 2 June, I replied extensively in this committee on this subject, in response to questions put by Mrs Ingels and Mr Pivin. I repeat that there is not really a blockage but rather an interruption to find the broadest possible basis for the long-awaited salary increase. The trade unions have undoubtedly told you that a sectoral agreement would also apply to the local police. Since the salary of local police staff is borne by local authorities, it is good to convince them of the usefulness of a sectoral agreement. We're working hard on that right now. I will once again stress the importance of a strong sectoral agreement within the government and ask for budgetary resources to be released. So we're working through two axes. Of course, the increased psychosocial pressure and violence against the police are important arguments to argue for a wage increase. These arguments are more relevant than the comparison with other functions in the government, such as those of penitentiary staff. The ordinary trade-union consultations must be distinguished from the negotiations for a sectoral agreement. We have invited the trade unions to a regular negotiating committee, which will take place tomorrow, to discuss dossiers that are important for both staff and organisation, for example the selection scheme and the reimbursement of certain medical costs. The trade unions have indicated that they would contact all government parties but also local authorities. So at the moment they are opting for dialogue and not hard social action, which I can only appreciate. I invited the trade unions to a meeting on 8 July to discuss the next steps of the sectoral agreement. I am pleased that the Ecolo-Green Group also supports the police in the demand for a new salary increase. As I have already pointed out, this seems to be a legitimate question after 20 years. Moreover, with a good sectoral agreement, it should be possible to increase police operationality, improve working conditions and well-being and make a police job more attractive.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic531x.u39	You replied extensively on 2 June. Meanwhile, it's the end of June. It is not bad that the question should be asked again and that you should be able to reply again and explain the state of play. There is no blocking, but rather an interruption. Negotiations are being re-launched. That's good news. It is also important for local authorities to be involved in the debate. They will also have to deal with part of the sectoral agreement. It is good that you say that there will be budgetary room for this. You rightly refer to the increased psychosocial pressure and the difficult working conditions in which the police have to work. For the Ecolo Green it is very important that we have high-quality police. In this sense, the training needs to be reviewed, as mentioned earlier. A reform of training is needed, because we need quality police, also with confidence in the police. This is a very essential function in our society and it needs to be strengthened. We therefore absolutely support the demand of the trade unions, for the good of the police, but we can also welcome the attractiveness of the job. We conclude that wage negotiations will soon be restarted. I wish that success and I hope you will reach an agreement soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic531x.u40	Madam Minister, interviews with members of the Jewish community, both the Forum of Jewish Organisations, from Flanders, and the CCOJB, from Brussels, appeared in various media last week, expressing their concern about what will happen after September 1, when the Operation Vigilant Guardian, in which soldiers secure the sites of the Jewish community, stops. We are concerned because until now no specific news has been heard. This was repeated by the mayor of Antwerp in the city council the day before yesterday. There are contacts, but until today there is no concrete plan. Do you understand the concern of the Jewish community? Do you think the local police are sufficiently equipped to carry out the protection? The mayor has also said that this is a static surveillance mission, which the local police would apparently not be able to do because of a lack of men. Have you been with the Jewish organizations, or are you planning to do so soon? I asked you a written question about the DAB a few months ago. Your answer showed that the DAB is legally unable to take on the security of the sites in case of level 3. You can do that after an amendment to the royal decree. Finally, the Jewish community also asks for a budget for the technical security of the various sites. This was started under the former Minister of the Interior, Jan Jambon. It also calls for a budget for its own security staff. Can you agree with that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic531x.u41	Mr Freilich, first of all, I understand the concerns of the Jewish community and their representatives, to which they have also expressed a number of contacts with myself and my cabinet staff. I've always taken it to heart. We have also stressed that we want to guarantee the same level of security as the current level, regardless of who will observe it. The Crisis Centre will monitor this closely. Nor will I fail to continue to reassure the Jewish community in this regard as much as possible. We'll save no effort to guarantee that security. The current support of Defense stems from the fact that many critical points were subject to adapted, additional or new security measures following the attacks on the Jewish Museum in 2014 and Charlie Hebdo in 2015 and the attack in Verviers in 2015. Defence assistance is regulated through a specific protocol agreement. Each month we evaluate how many soldiers will be deployed for this purpose. It has been described, however, that it is a matter of assistance, in which the security mission is basically the responsibility of the police. For a number of institutions, the threat level has fallen again. For the Jewish community, the threat level 3 was maintained. The division of tasks concerning special protection is governed by Ministerial Directive MFO-5. This means that once defence assistance is stopped, the security of the Jewish community will be restored to the local police as of 1 September, as decided by the government on 27 November 2020. The question of whether the local police in Antwerp would have been able to carry out the assignment is curious, especially since it is one of the country's largest, most developed and leading police forces. Recent operations, including the fight against drug violence such as the Nachtwacht operation, have shown once again that there can be no doubt about the capacity of the local police in Antwerp. I therefore take the liberty of expressing my full appreciation for the capacity and the ability of the local police and police forces to take up this task. In the past, the Jewish community has also received a one-off financial contribution or support of EUR 4 million for technology-preventive security. There is currently no government decision to make additional resources available. The possible creation of an own security service must, of course, comply with the law on private surveillance companies, which strictly regulates who and under what conditions may carry arms. It therefore seems important to me that institutions, such as the Jewish institutions which are targeted at threat level 3, should continue to use the government as much as possible, given the strict conditions of that legislation. In any case, I have also instructed the Crisis Centre to arrange the smoothest possible transition from the monitoring mission for the Jewish institutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic531x.u42	Madam Secretary, the Jewish community has great faith in the fact that it is going to be okay. She trusts that you will make the right decision and also realizes that the local police and local government are already actively working on the dossier. There's a special cell that's been around for 20 years, INTEL Israpatrouilles. But they don't carry out status surveillance orders. The question is therefore whether the federal level will also be able to participate through the federal police. You're talking about the law on private security organizations. The Jewish Consistory launched such an application two years ago, which I know has also been approved. Such an organization can indeed take on part of the security mission. Let us not forget the crux of the matter: the soldiers are leaving, but the threat level remains; you must do everything you can to ensure security. There is good faith that things will work out. I too am absolutely convinced that you, the cabinet and the current government take the security of the Jewish community to heart.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic531x.u43	Mr. President, Minister, the press reported on the disciplinary sanction imposed on Mr. Des enfants in the Chovanec case. This sanction is for a salary reduction of 10% for two months since you would have judged, together with your Justice counterpart, that the principal concerned would not have done enough. This is an important reversal of the situation as Mr Des enfants came to the Committee on the Interior to call for his innocence and to repeat on several occasions the fact that he had not been made aware of the facts and mainly of the video. In the follow-up to the hearings in the ad hoc committees, I would like to make it clear what really happened. Minister, what is the status of the disciplinary investigation in the Chovanec case? Was the police hierarchy, namely the director of the administrative police of the Federal Police, aware of Mr. Chovanec's incarceration, what had happened in his cell and the events that followed? If so, why not take immediate action? What lessons do you learn from this unfortunate case of good federal police service? What measures will you take to improve the flow of information and transparency within the integrated police?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic531x.u44	Mr. Chair, Madam Minister, we learned this Monday that in collaboration with the Minister of Justice, you had issued a sanction against André Des enfants, head of the administrative police, of which the airport police is part. This penalty consists of a deduction of 10 per cent of the employee's salary for a period of two months. It seems that initially, a greater sanction was considered, before you retracted under the threat of a remedy. At the same time, we were able to read the latest report of Committee P on Airport Police. It is overwhelming that there is a real problem of general management at all airports in the country and that there is a complete lack of integrity policy. Minister, what motivated the choice of sentence? How come you went from a suspension of several weeks to a simple withholding of pay, it seems after the intervention of police number one, Marc De Mesmaeker? Mr. Des enfants' main defence in this case was to indicate that he had not been kept informed of the facts. In the light of the report of Committee P, do you not think that there is also and above all a real structural problem within this police force, and in particular in the way it has been managed? Is Mr. Desenfants not ultimately responsible for this management as a superior? What do you intend to do to resolve the problems identified by Committee P?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic531x.u45	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the disciplinary procedure for a possible disciplinary sanction against Mr André Desenfants is still under way. The proceedings are currently pending before the Disciplinary Board and therefore, to date, no sanction decision has been taken against Mr. Des enfants. I will make a final decision jointly with the Minister of Justice, upon receipt of the advice of the Disciplinary Board. Since taking office, the Commissioner General has issued a number of instructions concerning the information that must be received without delay, intended for members of the Federal Police Steering Committee, in order to enable them to make all appropriate decisions. These instructions concern the role and organisation of the national contact point, as well as the information to be provided, and the daily reports from the deconcentrated directorates. These instructions relating to the reporting of computer and other security incidents and accidents were recalled by note of 21 August 2020. The note states explicitly that any incident related to the performance of police missions, the security of information, the safety and well-being of staff members must be reported to the hierarchy without delay. In addition to the above-mentioned reminder, the instructions for reporting security incidents were further clarified on 30 December 2020. This clarification note responds to one of the recommendations of Committee P regarding incident reporting. A working group is under way between the Integrated Police, the IGA and the College of Attorneys General to update the police discipline COLs and the flow of information from the Justice to the police. This work is also a follow-up to the report of the Supreme Council of Justice following the Chovanec case. With regard to the operation of the aviation police, I had several meetings with the new director who presented me with his action plan in the course of March. I will visit tomorrow, on this occasion, the aviation police in Gosselies. Mr. Boukili, as you can see, I did not wait for this Monday's P Committee report on leadership and integrity in the aviation police. The report is currently being thoroughly analysed by my office and the police. It goes without saying that I will take to heart the political recommendations made.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic531x.u46	Madam Minister, thank you for this information. We will wait to see to what extent, as soon as you receive the disciplinary council's report, you will or will not take sanctions against certain members of the federal police. On the airport side, we know that this has been a real problem for a number of years in relation to an entity that is not in correspondence with other federal police entities. We hope that you will make every effort to "take this part of the police into the ranks" which has too much tendency to act in self-serve and not to coordinate with other services. We will await the disciplinary action that has been taken either by the Commissioner General or by yourself.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic531x.u47	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I admit I'm a little relieved to learn that withholding pay is not the final decision. It would have been a real blow to the victims' families. I am glad to know that the procedure is still under way and that sanctions can still be imposed later. I am also pleased to hear that you will consider the recommendations of the P Committee's report in your decision-making. This is essential because it identifies structural problems within the airport police. The decision must make it possible to rectify this situation and to remedy it as firmly as possible. In his defence, Mr. Des enfants said that he was not aware of the situation. That's not an excuse. As superior, he cannot invoke this excuse. He must be aware and, if he is not, it is his fault, since he is responsible for the functioning of his services. We must therefore take into account the fact that this excuse is not valid. In any event, I thank you for your answer and look forward to the final decision since, contrary to what the press has suggested, you have stated that no sanction decision has been taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic531x.u48	We would normally end work at 12.30 p.m. There are seven more questions on the agenda. Do you have time for this, Madam Secretary?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic531x.u49	Mr President, I can stay for a while, but then we must try to work as efficiently as possible. I have to leave at 1:00.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic531x.u50	Good.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic531x.u51	Mr Vandenput, the digitisation of the recruitment process will in any case increase speed and efficiency. In concrete terms, the candidate will be allowed to schedule his selection process and follow the evolution of the selection and results through a digitised platform on Jobpol. That platform is currently being developed and it is intended to give candidates the opportunity to plan their trials through the Jobpol website from September 2021. Other developments will also be made available later, giving candidates the opportunity to conduct a number of tests online. The aim is to have the procedure fully operational as soon as possible. The digitisation of the recruitment procedure is an important priority for the police, both in 2021 and 2022. The DRI is looking for two external developers to strengthen the team involved and to bring the project to a successful conclusion and to be able to respect deadlines and deadlines. The local police zones are obviously important end users of the process. They are therefore involved in the preliminary study, analysis, follow-up and sample testing of the modules developed in the digitised selection procedure. A number of local police areas are involved in the various working groups that monitor the introduction of the new recruitment procedure. In addition, the information will soon be made available to the recruiters of the zones.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic531x.u52	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. The strengthening of DRI is indeed very important. However, I understand that there was a lack of people and knowledge within DRI to bring it to a successful conclusion. I welcome the rapid reinforcement, so that the digital process can start from September. I am truly convinced that this will mean two steps forward for both the candidate and the central recruitment cell, but also for the local police areas. In this way, we can commit candidates and reduce the chances of people leaving during the selection procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic531x.u53	Mr President, I thought I had given a subtle hint. I would like to draw your attention at the outset to the fact that the latest annual report, 2020, of the Deputy Governor, was recently delivered to myself and to the competent ministers of the Brussels-Capital Government. It can also be consulted on the Vice Governor's website. As regards your question about the follow-up of the circular letter from my predecessor, Minister De Crem, in 2019 by the Permanent Committee for Language Monitoring, I can confirm that that committee sent a new circular to the Brussels local authorities at my request, which included a number of issues. These are mainly matters, in essence the local authorities' obligations, with regard to the submission of dossiers and the provision of information to the vice-governor, which, according to the Vice-governor's annual reports, was once again to be made very explicit. For the sake of clarity, this was done within the framework of my competence with regard to the administrative language law itself and thus without prejudice to the fact that the supervision of compliance with the administrative language law and the sanctioning powers of the Brussels-Capital Government. In this context, I would also refer to the response of 21 February 2017 to a written question from one of my predecessors, Minister Jambon, in which he regretted that the Brussels Government did not use the sanction mechanism, to which I also subscribe. With regard to your questions about possible or desirable changes to the powers of the Vice-Governor, I would like to refer to the presentation by the Vice-Governor himself during a hearing in this Committee on 19 February 2019. He pointed out that an administrative language law is a coherent and balanced whole and that if one wants to change the law, one should take a global approach and not just focus on one element. I also fully agree, of course, with Flemish Minister Dalle that an enforceable and effective monitoring and sanctioning mechanism is an essential aspect that must be borne in mind if we are to change the administrative language law. As you know, an amendment to the government language law is not part of the government agreement of the current federal government.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic531x.u54	Madam Secretary, you're right. As soon as I submitted my question, the report had not yet appeared. That happened last week, but I couldn't have known that at the time. What bothers me is this. In the last report we see a very sharp increase in the number of suspensions in the last year. Preferably 50 % was tolerated and actually laughed away. I don't have to tell you that the vice-governor isn't very happy about that. He's highly disgruntled. The Vice-Governor's services are doing their best. The two administrative staff are doing a good job, but I feel that half of their work just disappears into the trash. The weakening of the decisions must cause them a great deal of frustration and, in my view, that is not very respectful of the position of the vice-governor. You have drawn up a second letter, but more needs to be done. We note that this year only 84 language licences were delivered, despite the letter of conversion and the good intentions. It is clear that this letter has completely missed its purpose. Even more so, some municipalities continue to stubbornly refuse to comply with their legal obligations. We need to bet on that. In our view, there is only one solution: the decisions of the vice-governor must be enforced. You agreed with me that this should be extended. Something must change about the recruitment policy of the municipalities and the OMCWs. Administrative language legislation is not an end in itself, but a means of ensuring that the government is at the service of the citizen in the best possible way. That is what we must strive for. As you said yourself, this is only one part, but all efforts together can produce results if they are part of a large, coherent and global approach to strengthening bilingualism in Brussels.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic531x.u55	I would like to refer to my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic531x.u56	The language tests for the new concept of recruitment and selection for the integrated police are currently being tested and will be adjusted where necessary. The new tests are mainly aimed at understanding reading and understanding listening. Grammar and vocabulary will also be questioned, but will weigh less heavily in the end result. With the new tests, we want to check in particular whether the candidates will be able to put data in an objective, correct and comprehensible report. A candidate's bilingualism is not affected by the slight shift in the language test, as a candidate always applies in one language. For the Brussels candidates, there is a collaboration with Brusafe, where the candidates will be able to attend a Dutch or French pre-training course if they wish to upgrade their knowledge in one of these languages. Pre-training is also under way.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic531x.u57	You said that the community or a body will take care of it if candidates wish to upgrade the other national language, i.e. Dutch or French. We must strive for as much bilingualism as possible in the police forces and ultimately in the administration as a whole. A succession will really be necessary here. An evaluation over a certain period of time will also be necessary to see whether the reform has effectively achieved the intended objective.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic531x.u58	"Madam Minister, section 52 of the Administrative Sanctions Act provides for a five-year evaluation of the Act, which is to be presented to Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic531x.u59	Do you envisage, in this context, assessing the impact of lowering the age limit to 14 for the taxation of SAC, as is the case, for the Brussels Region, in Uccle, Berchem St Agathe, Koekelberg and Etterbeek? Is raising this threshold to 16 possible based on the results of this evaluation?" [[I'm]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic531x.u60	Mrs Rohonyi, the SAC report has two parts. The first contains figures, including an overview of the number of fines imposed and the categories of infringements for which they were imposed. The second provides an overview of the procedural difficulties encountered in the implementation of the SAC Act. For the first part, the figures, a survey of cities and municipalities was carried out. More than 60% responded to this questionnaire. It was thus possible to establish reliable trends and/or draw conclusions. For the second part, a survey was carried out among the various actors involved in the execution of SACs, including Brulocalis. The comments transmitted were listed in the SAC report. In the meantime, it has been tabled in the House and can be consulted by everyone on the Home SPF website. As a result, you may have noticed that the Brulocalis questions you mentioned have already been incorporated into the report. Both the figures and the comments of the actors are being analysed by my services with a view to possible amendment of the SAC law. A bill would soon be submitted to that effect. Moreover, I intend to consult the associations of the cities and municipalities, including Brulocalis, as soon as the project is in the process of being completed. With regard to your question concerning the assessment of the lowering of the age limit for minors to whom a SAC fine may be imposed, I can provide you with the following information. The survey of cities and municipalities revealed that 78% of them had kept the age limit at 16. Only a little more than 21% of them opted for a lowering of this threshold to 14 years. However, I do not think it is appropriate to raise it again at 16 years of age, rather in favour of keeping it at 14 years of age. In addition, I would like to point out that the SAC Act not only allows fines to be imposed on minors, but also provides for several protective measures such as the parental involvement procedure, the compulsory offer of mediation and the possibility of alternative measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic531x.u61	Minister, thank you for your answers. They are rather satisfactory with regard to the assessment of the law and your next bill to reform and improve the law on the basis of comments made by actors on the ground. I would have liked to have a timeline for the drafting of this project and for the meetings that will take place on the margins of this writing. You say that you have met with the different cities and municipalities, but I would like to make sure that in doing so you have taken into account the opinions of the sanctioning officials. Some of them, particularly in Brussels, have not had the opportunity to comment on the evaluation of this law on administrative sanctions, even though they are the first concerned. They are responsible for enforcing this law and are therefore in a position to tell us how it can be made more efficient in responding to offences. In the case of minors, the survey carried out does not support an increase in age. We will analyze things on paper based on your project. However, I stress the need, if it is your choice not to change the age, to at least move towards a diversification of sanctions to ensure that they are adapted to minors.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic531x.u62	Mr Goffin, the destruction and recycling of seized property depends on the nature of the seizure. Judicial seizure is regulated by the Code of Criminal Investigation and administrative seizure is regulated by article 30 of the Police Function Act. Items seized by administrative measure shall be kept at the disposal of the holder, owner or owner for a maximum of six months, unless the imperative requirements of public security justify their immediate destruction. Such destruction shall be decided by the competent administrative police authority. In the case you are quoting, Mr. Goffin, nitrous oxide, when diverted from its legal use, i.e. when it is slowly inspired and exhaled in a balloon, is a danger to public and environmental health as well as to public tranquillity. For this reason, the police authorities carry out these administrative seizures on the basis, inter alia, of article 30 of the Police Function Act. The Municipal Council of Liège has also adopted a police regulation to prohibit, beyond the sale, consumption and possession of nitrous oxide on the public highway for euphoric purposes, in order to allow the police to carry out administrative seizure and destruction of the packaging of nitrous oxide or any similar substance. In the event of non-compliance with this Regulation, offenders shall be liable to an administrative fine of up to EUR 175, doubled in the event of recidivism and to the administrative closure of their establishment on a temporary or even definitive basis. In this context, the costs of destruction decided by the administrative authority are indeed based on the latter. It also seems to me useful to examine the extent to which the fines imposed in this context could not in part cover the costs incurred for the recycling or destruction of these objects. With regard to the guidelines on judicial seizures, a circular from the College of Attorneys-General is being drafted. I invite you to address my colleague the Minister of Justice. As for the figures you are asking for concerning the goods destroyed or recycled each year by the police services, these data are not recorded centrally in my department. It is therefore not possible for me to answer your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic531x.u63	Madam Minister, thank you. As mayors, we are obviously sensitive to the finances of the municipalities, but also police areas. I understand your answer, and I see the distinction you make between administrative seizures and judicial seizures. However, in some cases, seizures of this type represent very significant costs. You are opening a line of thought, if I understand you correctly, so that you can reallocate the fines associated with seizures to cover the costs. This is a lead we may be looking at. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic531x.u64	Questions Nos. 55019004C, 55019512C and 55019517C by Mr. Thiébaut are transformed into written questions.
