ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic428x.u1	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, during the discussion of the policy paper we have already discussed this difficult issue. The classic distribution points for products of the National Lottery are of course the daily shops, but also certain catering shops. In the current times of draconian corona measures, in which we now find ourselves, the daily trade is under more pressure than ever before. I asked questions about it together with a number of other committee members. I believe that Mr Van den Bergh already raised the issue during the discussion of the policy paper. The digitisation of the National Lottery is also an important item. Digitisation is somewhat the central theme of the government declaration across all policy areas. The game Vikinglotto is the summum of this in this committee, as it can only be played online, which, of course, creates many frustrations in the daily trade sector, which is already under pressure, because the traders are literally and figuratively out of play. That's why I have the following questions. Will there be a mid-term review of the commercial aspect of the product Vikinglotto and also a wider evaluation? Will there be a meeting with the sector and the umbrella federation of daily newspapers to discuss the influence on their sales or revenues since the introduction of the game Vikinglotto? If yes, what is the outcome of the evaluation? What is the outcome of the evaluation, if it has already been or would have been, in the wider context? If not, when are such evaluations possibly planned or is it a follow-up process of different evaluations? Finally, on what basis will it be decided whether the game Vikinglotto will continue in the current context, being 100 % online, or whether it will be carved into an additional design? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic428x.u2	Mr President, Secretary of State, the National Lottery started a new online trekking game in 2020, namely Vikinglotto. Gambling has existed since 1993 in nine European countries, especially Scandinavia and the Baltic States. Vikinglotto can now also be played in our country. According to the National Lottery it is a nice addition to the offer of draw games. The participation price of 10 euros is also the highest in the offer of the National Lottery. The profit margins for Vikinglotto are higher than for the regular lotto draw. So it's a tough competitor for its own national lotto draw. Vikinglotto's trekking will be held in Norway on Wednesday evening at 7 p.m. That's at the same time as the regular draw of the National Lottery. Once again, we are competing with our own successful products. A big difference, however, is that Vikinglotto can only be played online. In other words, lotto outlets, such as newspaper shops, cannot benefit from the sale of Vikinglotto. Worse still, because customers may choose Vikinglotto instead of the regular lotto or EuroMillions, they may even lose sales because of this decision of the National Lottery. How many Belgian players are currently on average per draw at Vikinglotto? For what amount does the average player play at Vikinglotto, EuroMillions and Lotto? Is it true that in other countries Vikinglotto can be played through physical outlets? Which countries are they talking about? Why can't we do that? Why did the National Lottery choose to sell Vikinglotto online only? How much has the National Lottery already spent on the Vikinglotto publicity campaign? Is it allowed for people from abroad to play with Vikinglotto? Could Belgians already participate online, via the Norwegian lottery, for example, before the National Lottery launched this product? Don't online gambling lower the threshold to addiction?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic428x.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, I have no news of our other colleagues, except for Mrs Thémont who will not be able to join us. I am sorry, Secretary of State, there are many called but few elected!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic428x.u4	I do not have a pending question, but since this is a topical debate, I would like to take this opportunity to comment on this interesting issue. The newspaper shop sector is indeed under pressure and shares the blows. The numbers of bankruptcies in recent years are not lying. Then it is remarkable to see that the National Lottery is increasingly using digital sales channels, which, of course, compete with its preferential partners, which should be the newspapers' shops. This puts further pressure on the daily merchant. Vikkinglotto is, as colleagues have said, a draw game that is only offered digitally. That's special in itself. Moreover, it is remarkable that the National Lottery has chosen to communicate the information about the new offer to the newspaper stores only on the very last day before the launch. I wonder if there's a reason for that? It is not very reassuring that the main commercial partners should only be informed at the very last minute. There is no mention of this in the management contract or in the relevant legislation, so the National Lottery does not have to report it. The fact that she does, on the last day before the launch, is very strange. What exactly is hidden behind that? Is it a deliberate strategy of the National Lottery, Mr Secretary of State, to extend the offer by digital means? Is there a line in there? Is it a conscious, thought-out and strategic choice to aim for the enhancement of the digital clientele? What does this mean for cooperation with the newspaper shops? It is a public secret that Vikinglotto implies potential competition for EuroMillions, which is also an international cooperation on lottery, with matching prize pots. Is it the intention of the National Lottery to increase competition for newspaper shops for its own direct online sales? Then I have a question about the design of the product. In its communication, the National Lottery likes to emphasise that it offers the same product as other Vikinglotto participants, but in practice it turns out that this is not entirely true. There is at least a difference in the price of a participation ticket. In Norway, one of the founding countries of Vikinglotto, a participation ticket costs 60 Norwegian kronor, or about 6 euros, while at the National Lottery it costs 10 euros. What's behind that? Is it intended that the National Lottery will purposely raise more money for similar prizes here, and that the National Lottery should become more profitable than lotteries abroad?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic428x.u5	I said, "Many called, but few chosen!" This formula is from Guy Bedos. Colleagues are no longer used to asking their question in a face-to-face format, and sitting in an unequipped room for video conferencing is sometimes a problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic428x.u6	Mr President, I would like to thank the questioners and those present here. I will answer all the questions, both to the questions that have been put here and to the other questions that have been tabled. In this way, anyone who may have stayed home for covid reasons can read them afterwards. Of course, the National Lottery gives preference to existing outlets, but the current management contract provides that "it freely determines its methods and channels of distribution and is free to modify and expand them or to use new methods and channels of distribution, including direct channels and new technological channels in order to bring its offer closer to the players". More generally, some games are only offered online, while others are offered only in physical outlets. Some outlets offer the full range of games, others a limited range. It is up to the National Lottery to make sensible choices, to make decisions and to implement a strategy that also takes into account costs and benefits. This undertaking does not imply, however, that the National Lottery is obliged to offer all its products at each point of sale or via each distribution channel. Nevertheless, the National Lottery considers it very important to have a good relationship with its sales network. The National Lottery has therefore given preliminary explanations to the bookstore federations. She then explained the following in a very transparent way and, certainly, when booksellers account for 50% of turnover. It is important that the relationship with sales outlets and daily dealers is assured. The point about communication to the daily merchants is right: we must always ensure that they are informed in full confidence as soon as possible. I recently had a conversation with a number of newspaper dealers. There is certainly still work to be done on communication, but the points of improvement in the relationship between the National Lottery and the daily merchants are not insurmountable, quite the contrary. If everyone's showing some good will, it's gonna work. With the launch of Vikinglotto, it was decided to open this product in a first phase only on the digital platform of the National Lottery and only after evaluation of its retail potential. This has the advantage that the cost of launching the product can be low. After all, this is a new game whose success remains to be proved. The deployment of the game in the physical points of sale requires a significant investment from the National Lottery and the points of sale. The royal decree containing the rules of the Vikinglotto game already takes this option into account. But it seems to me very reasonable that the National Lottery wants to wait for the success of this game before making significant investments in terms of time and resources. No other draw sets are currently planned that would be offered only via the digital channel and not via the retail channel. Sometimes the digital approach with limited costs allows us to examine the possibilities of a particular product, so that it can be offered to the daily traders, who remain an important partner. To minimize the investment costs, the digital test is interesting. Mind you, that's just one element. In any case, it is not planned that other games will be added in the short term. Vikinglotto can be considered as a niche game from which it is still too early at this stage to define the retail potential in order to draw trends on the gambling habits of Lotto and EuroMillions players following the launch of Vikinglotto. Sales figures for the last few weeks also show that this product still needs to be developed. The commissions that the outlets could theoretically earn on Vikinglotto's turnover are now almost negligible. Let us not forget that the launch of a new game at all physical points of sale requires not only a significant investment by the National Lottery, for example in the field of logistics, but also costs for the points of sale. They must, among other things, study the rules of the game and be able to explain to customers, place and maintain the marketing material and replace jackpot posters every week. If the sales potential is insufficient, the physical outlets will rather consider the new product as a burden. Based on sales figures over the last few months, the sales points would have received an average of EUR 4 to 5 per week to commission. This compensation is insufficient for the time and resources the outlets should invest. How the product will evolve in the future remains to be seen. Recently, its corporate plan foresees that the National Lottery will continue its mutichannel policy which puts customer experience at the centre of its concerns, regardless of its channels and available technologies. Therefore, it is not excluded that in the coming years there will be a greater interaction between the physical world of retail and the digital services offered by the National Lottery where independent bookstores will have a role to play. That last point is important. Especially with the covid pandemic, the digital evolution of recent years has taken off. Digitisation is everywhere in everything we do. For example, few of you still buy a train ticket physically; most buy it digitally. Especially in the light of the competition with a number of private players, who are very aggressive in the market, the digital aspect must not be forgotten, even in the interests of newspaper dealers. The product of the National Lottery, which plays a channeling role, has to strengthen the daily merchants, as sales via digital means still go hand in hand with physical sales.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic428x.u7	There will therefore be further evaluations. We're following the file closely. I have also noted your comparison with the digital purchase of a train ticket. That is very remarkable in our committee, since the closure of 44 points of contact is also a difficult issue. In any case, digitalisation must not mean that the daily shops disappear massively, which I am concerned about, as I mentioned in my introduction. You also mentioned several times, partly rightly, that the National Lottery should make sensible marketing choices. It is, of course, a federal public body, but it is and remains our concern that social and ethical aspects may be a little undersnow in that purely commercial and in that hard liberal struggle against other players. Up to a certain level, I understand that, but these social and ethical aspects are largely absent, not only in relation to the traditional outlets. Digitisation of, for example, lottery products is a bigger problem because a large part of social control, which exists at a classic point of sale, falls away. We do not want to underestimate this aspect in the future and in the evaluations which will certainly follow.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic428x.u8	Mr Secretary of State, I understand that the project is still in a test phase. I had asked about the numbers and the difference with the National Lottery. After all, we have two major concerns. Firstly, whether the product is in competition with the National Lottery and, secondly, whether digital sales should not be at the expense of newspaper shops, which would therefore have less revenue. It would be good to evaluate after some time whether that has no consequences. I also asked you whether the fact that the game is happening online does not pose a risk of addiction. You haven't answered that, but you may not have seen it yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic428x.u9	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for the explanation. Your recognition of the importance that both partners, which are the daily dealers and the National Lottery, maintain an open communication, is a good thing. The incident shows that there is room for improvement. The argument that the choice for a unique digital sale has been made in view of the interests of the daily merchants themselves to do them a commercial pleasure and to save them the investment costs, I find a little harsh. It seems to me not only doubtful that selling nothing would be more profitable in the short term than selling something, but also the National Lottery believes that it is better than the newspaper shops to know what is good for the newspaper shops. I think that is a needlessly patronizing attitude of the National Lottery. If we really want to save the newspaper shops the need for investment, the National Lottery would be able to solve this perfectly by giving its partners the freedom to make their own selection of products they offer. She's not doing that today. That additional freedom can perfectly offset that commercial risk. That seems to me to be the best of two worlds, but unfortunately the National Lottery does not allow that either in its terms of sale. I believe that there can be some improvement on all fronts of cooperation between the two partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic428x.u10	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, you will have noticed that my question has a somewhat stimulating title. I have deliberately chosen to do so, because in recent months I have seen initiatives by the National Lottery which actually seek the limits of what is allowed in the promotional field, both under the law and under the management contract. Since mid December until the beginning of this month I could barely open my social media without seeing at least one sponsored promotion from the National Lottery. From mid-December until two weeks ago, my Facebook was literally not a day free from sponsorship by the National Lottery. Of course, I have taken beautiful screenshots of that and created a collection of more than 25 sponsored campaigns, all several in just three months. However, the management contract makes it very clear that the Lottery should not extend the market, which is the case with such campaigns. This is not the only case, even at the launch of Vikinglotto, we have made remarkable choices about the promotion. During the launch they referred to bonuses, dare to play and the challenge that is hidden in gambling. I quote a passage from the promo at the launch: "Vikinglotto is reserved for the bravest of us because those who dare to play have a great chance to win." Mr Secretary of State, such wordings are actually not allowed for the broad sector of gambling. The Gaming Commission is right to attack the companies that take such initiatives. There are also other initiatives that are rather dubious. I refer, for example, to the promotions that have been set up about the Lottery Club. There were actions where free scratch notes were distributed and if one joined the Lottery Club one could win a visit to the Zoo for the whole family. If that's not a curious promotion for gambling, then I don't remember either. One can win a visit to the Zoo for the whole family if one becomes a regular gambler at the National Lottery. Apart from that we also see the number of slot machines increase, we see the number of Lottery Shops increase, which is at least the intention you announced in your policy statement. Mr Secretary of State, how do you reconcile this with the regulation, with the management contract, which expressly prohibits market expansion by the National Lottery? These are initiatives that seek the very limits of this market expansion. That's not a good thing. In addition, I have a few more technical questions. How many unique customers has the National Lottery received in recent years? How much has the number of slot machines grown in recent years? Why is it that money won online is not paid out, but remains on an account? That's a promo technique that encourages people to keep gambling their money. At the start of the corona crisis, a year ago, I saw a number of testimonies, from Mr Jannie Haek, but also in a broader communication from the National Lottery, with the message that playing is helping. That is a very strange message in the margins of the corona crisis. You think that's something that's permissive? Do you find all the above permitted? If that is okay with you and perfectly permissible within the limits of the management contract, what is not allowed, where do you draw the line of the permissible?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic428x.u11	Mr President, Mr Roggeman, the National Lottery has no figures on the number of unique players in the newspapers, Lottery Shops or Lottomatics. The National Lottery only has knowledge of the total number of unique players on its online gaming platform. The promotional actions and communication with the players are fully in line with the definition of the national Lottery's obligation to channel, in Article 5 of the management contract of 26 July 2016 between the Belgian State and the National Lottery. This article states that the national lottery's obligation to channel means that through a modern and attractive offer it attracts the existing lovers of lotteries, bets, matches and games of chance without being market expanding. To this end, it will develop new products and adapt its products to the new trends in existing and new markets. Due to the strong growth of the gambling market as a whole over the past few years, which can be estimated at 10 billion euros in stake, compared to 1.4 billion euros deployed at the National Lottery, the national lottery's market share has been greatly reduced in a few years. In the light of this evolution, the National Lottery cannot be blamed for being responsible for market expansion. On the basis of the figures I have just reported, the expansion of the market appears to be mainly in the private market. You asked why the money won when playing online is not deposited directly into the bank account. I would refer you to Article 10 (2) of the Royal Decree laying down general rules for participation in public lotteries and competitions organized by the National Lottery, using the tools of the information society. That article, which provides for a direct deposit from 500 euros, states: "The KB provides for the deposit of a player's account at smaller amounts. This can also be transferred to a bank account on simple request." So it's not like this is stuck somewhere. If a simple request is made, it will be transferred immediately. The slot machines you refer to are machines that allow you to buy a limited number of scratch notes and play along with the main draw games of the National Lottery. The National Lottery currently has 85 Lottomatics in use, all of which are equipped with an eID card reader to check the player's age of majority. The commission for the points of sale shall be 4,5 %. No decision was taken at the moment to place more vending machines. Finally, there is no additional commission for the outlets when using the Lottery Club card. You have also asked a lot of questions about figures. I would ask you to submit these in writing. Then we can respond in great detail.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic428x.u12	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for the answer. I did ask a lot of detailed questions. I think this is my duty as a representative of the people. I do not ask you to read out whole lists of figures, but I would like to point out that you do have the possibility of making them easily available to the secretariat of the Committee or the Registry of the Chamber. So you can answer the question in a way that exempts you from drowning endless numbers. I will give this to you in view of future questions of the same nature. In this case, I will submit my questions in writing. I note that you believe that the market-wide initiatives are fully in line with the obligation to channel and ban market expansion. I dispute that, Mr Secretary of State. I do not agree with you on the basis of what you have just said in this committee. You quoted from the management contract, where you read that the obligation to channel means that existing lotteries lovers are addressed, without being market-wide. If the National Lottery spends substantial sums on promotional budgets, to get advertising to families with the message of becoming a regular gambler at the National Lottery and then being allowed to go to the Zoo, that is market expanding. That's a violation of the channeling obligation. For example, there are still examples to be given. The National Lottery increases its product range, has recently increased its sales channels and also increases its promotional budgets in ways that exceed the limits of the permissible. You're denying that problem here, which is striking. It is not a good choice to leave the National Lottery free to do so and thus extend the management contract. It's not because she launches Vikinglotto that she has to act like a Viking herself now. Mr Secretary of State, it is your job to monitor compliance with the management contract. I am also looking forward to the definitions and possible side effects in the new management contract, of which you submitted a first draft to the Council of Ministers last week. It is important that you monitor compliance with the legislation and not only rely on the version of the National Lottery itself, but that you, as a policy manager, also keep a critical eye on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic428x.u13	Debates of the European Parliament Mr De Spiegeleer's 55014110C has been converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic428x.u14	Mr Secretary of State, the Vivaldi Government may have to meet a great deal in the coming months on the new boards of directors of various public companies. The National Lottery is one of them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic428x.u15	Mr President, the Law of 19 April 2002 on rationalising the operation and management of the National Lottery provides that the King shall appoint, by a decision adopted after consultation in the Council of Ministers, the Executive Director and a number of ordinary members of the Board in proportion to the number of votes attached to the shares held by the State. The other members are then appointed by the other shareholder, the Federal Participation and Investment Company (FPIM). The members of the Management Board shall be appointed for a term of six years. The term of office of the delegated director was basically until 12 November 2019. The mandates of the 11 ordinary members of the Governing Board representing the Belgian State will continue to run until 12 May 2021. The mandates of the directors appointed by FPIM shall run until 14 May 2021. All mandates are renewable in principle. Recently, the government decided to renew the delegate's mandate. The other members of the Management Committee shall be appointed by the Management Board on a proposal from the Executive Board for a renewable term of six years. Their appointment took place at different times and their mandate will therefore also expire at different moments. For example, the next term of office of a member of the Management Committee will not expire until 15 March 2023. By Royal Decree of 24 November 2020, the government commissioner representing the minister in charge of custody of the National Lottery was appointed. The Government Commissioner representing the Minister for the Budget was appointed by Royal Decree of 4 May 2015. His mandate has been running since 13 May 2015. The mandates of the government commissioners are open for an indefinite period. Article 69 of the management contract of 26 June 2016 between the Belgian State and the National Lottery provides that the State must ensure that the proposed persons fulfil the conditions laid down by the law or by the statutes and have the necessary competences to perform the functions properly. The statutes stipulate that directors are chosen for their legal, economic, financial or social competences or their competence in the field of the National Lottery. Finally, as regards equal representation of men and women, there is the Law of 19 April 2002, which provides that at least one third of the members of the Management Board must be of a gender different from that of the other members. The current composition of the Management Board includes six members of the female sex of 14 members. The composition of the Management Board therefore complies with all legal requirements. The renewal of mandates will also ensure that all legal rules on gender equality are respected.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic428x.u16	Mr Secretary of State, we have often heard that the government wants to introduce a new culture. We are in favour of greater openness in decisions on the Management Board. I have proposed, for example, for SNCB to include travelers' organisations on the board of directors, so that there is more representation of different sections of the population. For example, for the National Lottery, it would not be a bad thing for organisations involved in the prevention of gambling addiction to have a place on the board of directors. We are in favour of more discussion and openness about the composition of the boards of directors. At present, the law stipulates that at least one third of the members of the board of directors must be of another sex, but I would prefer to see a fifty-fifty distribution. We must be more ambitious in this respect, because that remains a major problem on the boards of directors.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic428x.u17	Question No 55015628C by Mrs Kattrin Jadin is transformed into a written question. Question No 5, by Mr De Gucht Mrs Maria Vindevoghel's 55016057C is converted into a written question.
